Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gregory John Robinson — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director & MD, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Colin Moorhead — Executive General Manager-Minerals, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Stephen Gorenstein — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
David S. Radclyffe — Analyst, CLSA Australia Pty Ltd.
Steuart McIntyre — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
Paul Hissey — Analyst, Goldman Sachs (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Peter Harris — Analyst, JCP Investment Partners Ltd.
Andrew Knuckey — Analyst, Commonwealth Securities Ltd.
Rod Clarkson — Analyst, Lonsec Institutional Equities
Brett McKay — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)
Harry Mateer — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the 2013-2014 Half Year Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded, Friday, February 14, 2014.

I'd now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Mr. Greg Robinson, Managing Director and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Good. Thank you very much. Good morning and welcome, everyone, to Newcrest's December 2013 half year financial results. Gerard Bond, Colin Moorhead and I will talk to you this morning in relation to the financial results and an update to our reserves and resource estimates.

So, I'll just call turning the page, turning the page to our disclaimer. I'd like to highlight the company's disclaimer and draw your attention to the statements on this slide relating to the financial information and forward-looking statements you will see in this presentation, as well as the competent person's statement and reporting requirements relating to the preparation of the company's oil reserve and mineral resource estimates.

So, turning the page to page 3. First half financial year highlights. We'll turn straight onto page 4 and we'll deal first with operational highlights. Our operational performance comprised gold production of just over 1.2 million ounces for the half year, which was better than planned, and copper production was 42,000 tonnes. This outcome was better than achieved in the prior corresponding half year with gold production 27% higher and copper production 10% higher.

Our All-in Sustaining Cost was just over A$1,000 per ounce, and the U.S. translation of that is A$925 per ounce, which resulted in an all-in sustaining cost margin of around A$400 per ounce. On an average realized gold price of A$1,405 per ounce. I want to remind everyone Newcrest Group's All-In Sustaining Cost, they will vary from period to period as a result of various factors including production performance, timing of sale, the level of sustaining capital and the relative contribution on each asset.

At Cadia East, the development of the Panel Cave 2 progressed with the next major milestone as we've discussed in prior presentations being the commissioning of the west crusher and the conveyor system. And we expect those in the June 2014 quarter. And a quick comment on Wafi-Golpu. The focus really is on evaluating lower capital cost start-up options. And in particular, a feasibility study to evaluate an underground and exploration program.

Turning the page to page 5. I'll run through a summary of the key financial results and then we'll get Gerard to talk through them in more detail. Newcrest maintained its focus on maximizing free cash flow during the first half of the 2014 financial year with an emphasis on producing lower cost, high-margin ounces, reducing exploration and capital expenditure and pursuing cost reduction initiatives across the business.

The operating and cost performance in the first half of the financial year did flow through the financial results, but was offset by the decline in the gold price when compared with the financial results of the prior corresponding period. Statutory profit was A$40 million for the half and the underlying profit was A$207 million. The difference between the statutory profit and the underlying profit is due to tax and an asset impairment, and again, we'll wait till Gerard goes through those specifically later in the presentation.

Cash flow from operations was A$228 million for the half year, which was lower than the corresponding prior period due to the lower gold price and also the reversal of favorable working capital balances that we had at June 30, 2013. And again, Gerard will go in a more detail of those later.

Capital expenditure of A$421 million was significantly lower than the corresponding period primarily due to the completion of our major projects in early 2013, lower sustaining capital and the completion of major projects stripping programs at Telfer and Bonikro during the period.

As at December 31, 2013, gearing was 30.5% and the company had over A$1.2 billion in cash and undrawn debt facilities. The board is comfortable with gearing being higher, higher than target levels in the short to medium term, but we will remain focused on affecting progressive reduction in gearing over the time, which is clearly subject to market and operating conditions.

So let's turn the page, page 6. Just provide the summary of the company's progress in key focus areas during the first half of the 2014 financial year. Newcrest remains on track to deliver production and cost guidance with the first half production and cost performance better than planned. Our focus on lower cost, higher margin ounces was evident, as we discussed in the quarterly actually, during the first half, with reduced mining and increased stockpile processing at Lihir, reduced open productivity at Telfer and the decision during the half to cease processing low-grade stockpiles at Cadia Valley.

We've significantly reduced capital and exploration expenditure compared to the corresponding prior period, particularly major project capital, but also sustaining CapEx production stripping and exploration expenditure.

The company continues to focus on cost reduction across all parts of the business. We've maintained our growth options and during the period, we continue to evaluate lower capital cost startups for Wafi-Golpu. And as I've already mentioned, the feasibility study to evaluate the underground exploration program there.

We recognize there's more to do across the business. And we've continued as we continue to really focus on our objective of maximizing free cash flow.

So they're the opening comments. With that, I'll now hand over to Colin Moorhead, who is Newcrest's EGM-Minerals to present the update on the company's reserve and resource estimates.

Thanks, Greg. Before I begin, I would like to just reiterate the reference to the company's disclaimer statements on slide 2, incorporating the competent person's statement and reporting requirements relating to preparation of the company's oil reserves and mineral resources estimate.

Turning to slide 8. Newcrest has completed its annual update of mineral resources and ore reserve estimates to December 31, 2013. This update is the first reporting mineral resources and ore reserves by the company under the new JORC 2012 and associated ASX listing real requirements, including requirements for more detailed reporting regarding material changes to material mining projects.

The update incorporates a review of all ore resources, including mine, metallurgy and long-term cost price assumptions, which result in the application high cut-off grades. This primarily impacted the company's large open-pit operations at Telfer and Lihir, and this resulted in the most marginal ounces being removed from the portfolio. There were no changes made to the long-term metal price assumptions other than Gosowong, which is now reported with the same long-term metal price assumptions as other Newcrest mining sites.

As a result to the changes to cut-off grades and taking into account estimated mining depletion across the portfolio during the year, group mineral resources are estimated at 150 million ounces of gold, and group ore reserves are estimated to contain 78 million ounces of gold, as at December 31, 2013. These represent reductions from December 12, 2012 statement of 7% in respect to mineral resources and 11% with respect to ore reserves, with the reductions primarily at Telfer and Lihir, as indicated in the tables on the right-hand side of the slide. These changes have the effect of increasing the average gold grade of the ore reserves at Telfer by approximately 17% and by approximately 9% at Lihir.

There were smaller reductions to the copper inventory with resources estimated at 21 million tonnes and reserves at 12 million tonnes of copper. The company also has a sizeable silver inventory. Further details are available in the company's annual mineral resources and ore reserves statement and associated explanatory notes released to the ASX this morning.

I will now hand over to Gerard Bond to present the company's financial results.

Thank you, Colin, and good morning, everyone. As Greg mentioned at the beginning, the company maintained its focus on producing lower-cost, higher-margin ounces and pursuing reductions in operating costs, capital, and exploration expenditure. These things will become evident as I move through the following slides.

Beginning with slide 10, underlying profit for the six months ended December 31, 2013 was A$207 million which was A$116 million or 36% lower than the corresponding prior period. This was primarily a result of the 13% decline in the average realized Australian dollar gold price, partially offset by an increase in gold sales volumes which were 26% or almost 250,000 ounces higher than the corresponding prior period.

Total minesite production costs for the current period were A$1.03 billion which was A$144 million or 16% higher than the corresponding prior period. This increase in minesite production costs was primarily driven by the 27% increase in gold production.

Following an assessment of carrying values of assets, there has been A$47 million after tax impairment of West African exploration assets. This assessment of carrying values takes into account the December 2013 resources and reserves update just provided by Colin.

Free cash flow being cash flow from operating activities less cash flow from investing activities was an outflow of A$229 million for the six months ended December 31, 2013. This was lower than the outflow of A$923 million in the corresponding prior period.

Cash flow from operating activities in the current period was A$228 million, lower than the corresponding prior period primarily as a result of the mentioned decline in the realized gold price, the reversal of favorable working capital balances at June 30, which we estimate to have had an effect of around A$200 million, and the A$70 million tax payment in the period resulting from the amendment of prior period research and development tax claims.

Free cash flow further benefited from a 66% reduction in investment expenditure, primarily driven by substantially lower major project capital expenditure following the completion of major expansion projects, which were still in construction in the corresponding prior period.

Turning to slide 11, sales revenue and operating margins, total sales revenue for the six months ended December 31, 2013 of just over A$2 billion was A$211 million or 12% higher than the corresponding prior period. Higher gold sales, having a favorable impact on revenue of A$421 million, was primarily driven by increased gold production at the company's three largest producing assets being Lihir, Cadia Valley and Telfer. Partly offsetting this was the impact of lower metal prices, particularly gold, where a 13% reduction in the average realized gold price resulted in a A$255 million reduction in sales revenue.

Increased sales of copper at higher prices had a A$48 million favorable impact on sales revenue, whilst silver revenue was marginally lower than the corresponding prior period, primarily as a result of lower prices. The increased production is primarily the result of completing the expansion projects at Cadia East and Lihir in early calendar 2013, higher throughput and grade from Ridgeway and higher throughout in recoveries at Telfer. The reduction in EBITDA and EBIT margin shown on this slide primarily reflect the impact of the lower realized gold price in the current period which had an effect greater than the reduction in unit costs.

Turning to slide 12, this shows that the cost of sales for the six month ended December 31, 2013 of just over A$1.5 billion, was A$321 million or 26% higher than the corresponding prior period. This is in line with the 26% increase in gold sales volumes in the December 2013 half. Minesite production costs in the current six month period were A$144 million or 16% higher than the corresponding prior period and I'm going to talk about that a little later.

Unlike in the corresponding prior period when there was a net addition to stockpiles, the current period was characterized by a drawdown of ore stockpiles with a current period charge of A$66 million, being A$144 million higher than the corresponding prior period. This ore stockpile drawdown was primarily at Lihir, Telfer and Gosowong.

At Lihir, commissioning of the plant's expansion and expanded flotation circuit enabled a significant increase in stockpile and ore processing. At Telfer, reduced open pit mining and the temporary interruptions of the underground hoisting system resulted in a greater draw on stockpiled ore. And at Gosowong, the completion of open-pit mining activity in July 2013 also resulted in a higher level of drawdown of stockpiled ore.

Realization and royalty costs were higher in line with the 26% increase in sales. Depreciation was A$12 million higher than the corresponding prior period, primarily as a result of the commencement of commercial production at Cadia East and the completion of the Lihir plant expansion in early calendar 2013 and the effective high levels of production from Ridgeway.

Turning to slide 13, it shows the main drivers of the change in production at each of our operations in the current half relative to the corresponding prior period. Group gold production increased by 255,000 ounces over the corresponding prior period with the most substantial increases occurring at Cadia Valley, Lihir and Telfer, as shown.

At Cadia Valley, increased production was primarily the result of increased ore production from Cadia East and increased ore feed from Ridgeway, both of which are high-grade ore sources and stockpiled ore, which ceased being an ore feed in the current period. This change in ore feed mix resulted in higher average feed growth for both gold and copper, which flowed through the higher recoveries. Mill feed throughput was lower with the cessation of processing low-grade stockpiled ore.

Production at Lihir was characterized by an 89% increase in mill throughput, primarily reflecting the completion of the plant expansion project in January 2013 and associated improvement projects. Gold grade was 24% lower in the current period primarily as the result of an increase in ore source and stockpiles. Gold recoveries were lower as a result of lower-grade ore feed.

At Telfer, increased production was primarily the result of higher throughput and higher recoveries, partly offset by lower feed grades. Mill throughput was higher primarily due to the planned major shutdown in the prior corresponding period. Grade was lower primarily due to the lower level of feed of underground ore in current period due to the disruption of the underground hoist in August and September 2013.

Recoveries were higher in the current period primarily reflecting low levels of ore sourced from the high-sulfur West Dome and continuous improvement initiatives. Low levels of ex-pit mining activity and the temporary disruption of the underground ore feed in the current period resulted in more ore being sourced from open-pit stockpiles.

On to slide 14, minesite production costs for the current period were A$1.03 billion, approximately 16% higher than the corresponding prior period. A rate of increase less than the 27% increase in gold production. The A$144 million increase is primarily the result of high levels of production at Cadia Valley, Lihir and Telfer, and the adverse cost impact of a weaker Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar on U.S. dollar denominated cost.

There was a reduction in open-pit mining activity at Telfer, Lihir, Gosowong and Bonikro and with major production stripping programs completed at Telfer and Bonikro. The commencement of commercial production in Cadia East and expanded processing plant capacity at Lihir were key drivers of the higher production costs, partly offset by lower levels of expenditure associated with changes in operating activities, such as reduced open-pit activity at Telfer and the cessation of stockpile processing at Cadia Valley, and the effects of cost reduction initiatives.

Lihir has also transitioned to a low level of mining activity with the greater proportion of its ore feed to the mill sourced from stockpiles, which is a free cash flow maximization strategy enabled by the commissioning of the flotation plant.

The Australian dollar weakened against the U.S. dollar in the current period being at an average of $0.923 compared to the corresponding prior period of $1.039. This depreciation had a negative impact of approximately $24 million on translation of minesite production cost of non-Australian operations.

On a unit cost basis, minesite production costs for the six months ended December 31, 2013 were A$862 per ounce, which is 10% lower than the corresponding prior period of A$953 per ounce. This outcome is primarily a result of increased gold production, a change in operational activities and the greater focus on cost consistent with Newcrest focus on maximizing free cash flow.

Slide 15 now depicts the group EBIT for the six months ended December 31, 2013 of A$404 million and the key movements from the corresponding prior-period EBIT of A$472 million. I've covered most of the key elements of this already with A$249 million of the reduction in group EBIT due to the lower realized gold and silver process, partially offset by higher copper prices.

The items in the shaded box highlight the impact that increased sales volume net of the cost to produce that additional volume had on EBIT, which was a net increase of A$172 million. Depreciation and realization costs were higher than the corresponding period due to increased production and sales volumes, whilst the higher royalty charges reflect the increased sales revenue.

Turning to slide 16, cash flow from operating activities. For the six months ended December 31, 2013 was A$228 million. This is A$200 million lower than the corresponding prior-period cash flow of A$428 million. The reduction in cash flow from operating activities in the current period reflects a number of drivers as shown on this slide. Cash flow was impacted by the 13% lower Australian dollar average realized gold prices and the increase in operating costs associated with the 26% increase in the gold sales volume.

The relative movement in receivables and payables includes the effect in the current period of the reversal of favorable working capital balances at June 30, 2013 of approximately A$200 million. This was primarily due to payments made to supplies in the current period in relation to higher levels of mining, maintenance and capital activities in six months to June 30, 2013, particularly at Lihir and Telfer.

Other elements of this June 30 working capital position online were payments in the current period of approximately A$50 million pertaining to the Brisbane office closure and redundancies across the business which were provided for at June 30, 2013. Finally, the relative movement in working capital in the period was impacted by the timing of concentrate shipments and debtor receipts.

As shown on the slide, interest paid was A$54 million higher as a result of higher average debt levels. There was a tax payment of approximately A$70 million as a result of the company's voluntary amendment in the current period of its Australian research and development claims in respect of the 2009 to 2011 financial years. Excluding this A$70 million payment, income taxes paid were A$86 million lower in the corresponding prior period, reflecting lower levels of taxable income on underlying earnings in the current period.

Turning to slide 17. This slide shows the main drivers of free cash flow outcomes in the current period. Free cash flow constitutes cash flow from operations, less cash flow related to investing activities. And for the six months ended December 31, free cash flow was an outflow of A$229 million compared with an outflow of A$923 million in the corresponding prior period.

Cash flow from operating activities of A$228 million was impacted by the reversal of favorable working capital balances at June 30, 2013 estimated at A$200 million and the tax payment of approximately A$70 million as discussed on the previous slide.

Cash flow from investing activities in the current period was an outflow of A$457 million. This comprised sustaining capital expenditure of A$135 million, production stripping of A$120 million, exploration of A$36 million, and major project capital expenditure of A$166 million, which include A$2 million of capitalized interest. And that major capital expenditure was mainly in relation to Cadia East Panel Cave 2.

The resulting free cash flow to the current period being an outflow of A$229 million, you can see, was obviously is affected by the A$200 million the unwound favorable working capital balances and the A$70 million tax amendment payment.

Turning to slide 18 and this shows the level of investment expenditure in the December 2013 half declined significantly from that in the corresponding prior period. The reduction reflects changes in all categories of capital expenditure, but was primarily driven by substantially lower major project capital expenditure as the company completed both the Cadia East Panel Cave 1 and expand the Lihir plant expansion early in the 2013 calendar year. These projects were still being progressed in the corresponding prior period.

In the current period, major project capital expenditure of A$164 million, as mentioned, predominantly relates to the development of Cadia East Panel Cave 2, A$141 million, with ongoing development of the underground and extraction levels, the key focus. Other major project expenditure relates to Wafi-Golpu, A$40 million, and the flotation plant expansion at Lihir, earlier in the current period, of A$6 million.

Production stripping, as mentioned, was lower in the current period primarily due to the completion of major stripping panes at Telfer; Main Dome, Stage 4 and Stage 6; and Bonikro, Stage 2, which were still active in the corresponding prior period, partly offset by increased activity at Lihir in relation to Minifie Stage 9.

Sustaining capital expenditure was A$105 million lower than the corresponding prior period, primarily as a result of Newcrest's focus on costs and capital reduction across the business, as well as progressive completion of projects in progress in the corresponding prior period.

Capital expenditure to the full year ended June 30, 2013 is expected to be around the lower end with the guidance range subject to market and operating conditions.

Moving onto liquidity and gearing on slide 19. At December 31, 2013, Newcrest had available liquidity equal to A$1.25 billion, comprising cash of A$121 million and undrawn bilateral loan facilities of just over $1 billion.

The graph on the left shows the loan facilities and issued debt. The drawn amount on the bilateral loan facility at December 31, 2013 of $1.94 billion was lower than the available facilities of $2.95 billion, providing a liquidity buffer in excess of $1 billion. In January 2014, the company further extended its bilateral loan facilities by $200 million on terms consistent with the existing bilateral loan facilities for a period of three years providing Newcrest with additional liquidity headroom and extending the average tenure of its bilateral loan facilities.

The gearing ratio at December 31, 2013 was 30.5%, and this was higher than the 29.3% gearing ratio at June 30, 2013 primarily due to the net drawdown on the bilateral loan facilities during the current period of approximately A$287 million, and the effect of translating the U.S. dollar debt at a lower Australian dollar U.S. dollar period end exchange rate.

This adverse impact on gearing of additional debt drawn and Australian dollar weakening on U.S. dollar-denominated debt is partially offset by the beneficial effect of translating net assets of over $8 billion, and that relates to Newcrest's non-Australian assets at the same weaker Australian dollar exchange rate.

Moving on to slide 20, it addresses our cash flow and gearing. Newcrest has previously stated that it's managing the business to be free cash flow positive in the 2014 financial year after all capital exploration and corporate expenditure and a gold price of A$1,450 per ounce, subject to market and operating conditions. Newcrest had a production and cost performance better than planned in the first half of 2014 financial year and continues to focus on being free cash flow positive at an average realized gold price lower than A$1,450 per ounce. After taking into account all capital exploration and corporate costs including tax and interest subject to market and operating conditions.

As Greg mentioned, that Newcrest board has determined there will be no interim dividend due to the reduced level of profitability in the current period, the level of gearing at December 31, 2013 and the planned application of operating cash flow to the progression of Cadia East Panel Cave 2 in the 2014 and 2015 financial year. The board is comfortable with gearing, being at higher than target levels in the short to medium term but will remain focused on affecting a progressive reduction in gearing over time, subject to market and operating conditions.

I'll now hand back over to Greg.

Thanks, Gerard. Let's move past page 21 onto page 22. So, I've just got a few concluding comments in relation to key focus areas for the second half of 2014 financial year before we open it up to questions. So, delivering against our production and cost guidance is critical and we will continue to focus on managing each operation to be free cash flow positive at an average realized gold price of A$1,450 per ounce, that's A dollars, or better. And of course, that's subject to market and operating conditions.

The key areas of focus at our core assets include the ongoing optimization of the grinding circuit at Lihir, the commissioning of the Panel Cave 2 west crusher at Cadia East, and the evaluation of lower capital cost start-up options at Wafi-Golpu. And we'll be reporting on the performance of these in the quarters ahead.

Our exploration, although reduced, will stay focused on the Salut vein structure at Gosowong, and the regional targets at the [indiscernible] (28:53). Work will also progress on assessing those sharp locations at Wafi-Golpu that we discussed earlier and drilling new mine targets at Bonikro. Most importantly, we will maintain our focus and pursuit of cost reduction and productivity improvements across the entire business.

On leadership, just a quick comment on leadership. We're also focused, as I said in the quarterly, on a smooth transition of the CEO role. Sandeep has commenced and is, as I've already said, spending the first couple of months visiting and working with the operational sites.

So, that concludes our formal presentation. And at this point, I'm happy to open it up for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question in queue comes from the line of Stephen Gorenstein from Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks very much. Just a few questions from me. Firstly, on the reserve changes, just want to understand with Lihir and Telfer where those ounces were planned to come into the mine plan? And secondly, if they have come out now, why haven't they, is there a reason that hasn't impacted the balance sheet numbers?

Okay. Stephen, thanks. Firstly, on Lihir and Telfer in the mine plan, different answers for both. And I'll get Colin to make any comments if he wants to follow up on this. But on Telfer, it is those higher-cost, low-margin open-pit reserves and they're a mixture of medium- and long-term production ounces in that asset, predominantly longer term. And at Lihir, it's longer term. It really is towards the end of the life of the operation. Colin, do you want to add to that?

Sure, Greg. Certainly, at Lihir, it's cut-offs, the cut-offs, effectively raised from 0.75 to 1. So, the material movement that, the marginal material that would've been on the stockpile is now considered waste, so it would not come into production till the very end of the mine life. At Telfer, it's the same issue plus some dropping out of higher strip ratio, pit phases. The higher grade [ph] riffs (31:38) that are contained in those, we are looking to pull into underground production.

Stephen, you had a carrying value piece to that question too, didn't you?

I did. So just, yeah, given that those ounces were once-upon-a-time continue to be economic, is there a reason that carrying values have, I mean, I realized it's long term, et cetera, but is there a reason carrying values haven't been addressed?

Well, I'm going to pass that to Gerard.

Good morning, Stephen. I mean, by definition on being removed, those ounces were very marginal ounces. It didn't alter our assessment of the carrying values which of these two assets which you'll recall were impaired significantly at June 30.

At Telfer, in particular, some of it, we did look at the, obviously taking into account the thinking that we're behind the reserves and resources update, and there were for various swings and roundabouts, reengineering of pits and movement of open pit ore into the underground profile. And also taking into account the cost performance in near term of that asset allowed us to remain comfortable with the carrying value of both Telfer and Lihir.

Right. Thanks for that. And just a follow-up question for you, Gerard. Just in terms of the comments on free cash flow, obviously, starting second half this year now, you're starting a fair way behind given free cash flow in the first half was negative for working capital for said reasons. Can I just confirm that the guidance that you guys are talking in terms of free cash flow neutral positive of A$1,450 is based on, is inclusive of that reduction in cash flow in the first half?

It is, Stephen. It does include the A$70 million in the tax payment that we didn't originally envisage paying.

Excellent. And last question on that is just in terms of debt facilities and just looking forward, obviously, how soon would you normally start speaking to your creditors about rolling forward debt facilities in the usual circumstance?

As soon as it makes sense. But as I think last time, we renewed inside of the year of their expiring.

Inside of the year. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you. First of all, back to the Telfer reserve situation, given that the remaining reserves at Telfer are probably at least twice what your indicative mine plan is. Does that suggest that the production plan has changed beyond that for a five-year outlook?

Look, I think with Telfer, some of these are reserves, there will be capital decisions in some of those open-pit stripping decisions longer term. They are economic with the assumptions we have got. We'll, obviously, delay those decisions further down the track and assess them at that time. So, we're very concentrated with Telfer here in this five-year plan.

Okay. Thank you. Secondly, with respect to the cut-off grade change at Lihir and materially this proves they're going to stockpile – not going to stockpile, what does that do to the long-term stockpile grade? I think if I recall, it was going to average 2.1 or thereabouts long term. So, how does that change with that low-grade material no longer going on to it?

Well, Michael, the average growth at the reserves at Lihir increases with this change from 2.1 to 2.3. The grade of the stockpiles will come up by a similar percentage.

Thank you. And with respect to the working capital adjustment in the first half, the only component of that that doesn't look like permanent change is where you mentioned concentrate shipments I think. So, is there any expectation for a working capital release in the second half?

Mike, we'd certainly expect it to even out. The magnitude of this was more due to the change in activity levels that around that period, end of June 30, 2013. So, in the full year, yes, we expect it to even out and get some back.

So, when you say even out, can you quantify that a little, please?

Well, it's going to vary by component part but you that's, we're not provide any more detail at this time on it. Something in the order of about A$100 million you'd expect to be improved in working capital balances over the second half.

Okay. Thank you. And the comment about being comfortable with the balance sheet and a progressive reduction in gearing as opposed to, perhaps, a step reduction gearing, how should we interpret that?

The focus – again, the strategy of the company hasn't changed in its priority of finishing Cadia East. Cadia East in Panel Cave 2 is, with Panel Cave 1, a low-cost operator and generates very – subject to obviously prices and the conditions of the market but generates substantial cash flow for us going forward. So, we are applying our cash flow to Cadia East to complete that operation. And that is our number one priority.

And number two priority, once we've got that complete is to move towards gearing reduction, so debt reduction. So, then we'll be applying our cash flow to the reduction of debt. Now that will just go with wherever the gold price goes over that period. And there are wildly different forecasts on that gold price going forward.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you. And very finally, if I may, I'm interested in how you think about costs and metal prices going forward, in that one of the challenges we have is that we probably continue to extrapolate peak of cycle costs, but bottom of the cycle perhaps metal price assumptions, which make the outlook look pretty challenging. So, in the context of restating reserves, how do you think about it? Do you adjust your long-term cost assumption relative to your stable metal price assumption, or do you apply margin? What do you do to sort of underpin your views, please?

So, costs in a very short-term framework are quite fixed. Medium to long timeframe are more floating because, again, remember the major cost drivers for a mining operation relate to labor, energy and commodity inputs to run those operations. And so, over the long term, if prices come down substantially, you generally find there's a strong correlation to the way costs react.

And the overload for that for all the analysts, I know it's difficult, but you've certainly got to overlay the correlation also between gold price and currency because currency also plays a major factor in that. So, we do take that into account when we think about the long-term mine plans and again, we see the variation of that analysts forecast in those spaces. And in a market where commodity prices are declining, it's, people have various assumptions on how costs reduce. But again I'd emphasize, if prices come down in the medium to longer term, they tend to follow a fairly good correlation.

All right. Thanks, Greg.

Your next question comes from the line of David Radclyffe from CLSA. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. My question was around the growth outlook which is not really that clear. If gold prices are unchanged, on the midterm view, would you actually see the company investing in new growth projects? And if not, under what scenarios would it require you to revisit the organic growth opportunities?

So, again, we revisit those organic opportunities at all of our major capital tollgates as we consider studies, concept, prefeasibility, feasibility, and we do communicate those through the quarterly as we evaluate those opportunities.

I think in a very volatile gold price, particularly where we see quite a wide variation from experts in the market on where the price is going, we apply a particularly high hurdle to new investments in growth projects to ensure that what we're going to get is going to match our strategy, which is low cost and a good return on capital.

So, at this point, I would say, it follows the same project approval process. Our strategy is the same. We want to be a low-cost producer. We want to have good return on capital. All of our projects will go through that metric and they'll go through particularly hard metric in sort of forecasting commodity prices and costs.

If I look at the growth options within the company, our objective right now through this period of volatility is to maintain them. We're not looking to create a fire sale. We are looking to maintain those options for the future. We talked particularly in this presentation about Wafi-Golpu. We particularly think that is still an outstanding ore body, and for the longer term an important opportunity for this company. And we're continuing to pursue our studies to look at how we would bring that into production.

Thanks. Then as a follow-up, I mean, is there any first impressions you could give us from Sandeep from where he might see opportunities within the portfolio? And if not, maybe when we could anticipate hearing from him?

Sandeep is out travelling the operations and absorbing, I think, the short to medium term, and I'm sure is forming views on opportunities as anyone would, coming into a company with a fresh set of eyes. I don't – I think, to be fair to Sandeep, he will absorb that, go through the process of really building a platform of where he will take it as a CEO going forward. And so, later in this half, you'll have the opportunity to speak to him.

Okay. Cheers.

Your next question comes from the line of Steuart McIntyre from Royal Bank of Canada. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. My question relates to sustaining capital for the half. Now, I recognize you've obviously guided for overall CapEx to be at the bottom end, but sustaining CapEx for the half of A$135 million was actually A$43 million below the bottom end, or 24%. So, for the second half, for the June half, should we be looking for a similar number in the second half, or should we be looking for an A$85 million reversal to hit the bottom end?

So guys, we're just not going to change our guidance from the overall sustaining dollars cost, dollars million. We're clearly, [ph] David (43:08), we're clearly looking as closely as we can at reducing all our areas of capital expenditure. And it's an effective reduction of capital expenditure. It's not trying to sort of stop critical sustaining CapEx. But we are looking to be as thrifty as we can within those areas over the six months but our guidance will stay the same as what we've disclosed already.

Okay. I've got you. I mean, I guess the real question is how sustainable is the current level of sustaining CapEx. You see it as that the savings you've made are sustainable, I guess.

Yeah. Caught in those words. But, yes, the aim is not to set the operation up for failure in the medium term. What we're trying to do is obviously maintain our levels of sustainable capital in our critical shutdowns, and our reliability of our equipment. And, yes, we are looking to make a reduction that is sustainable for the future.

Okay. Thank you. My second question relates to the gold price used to calculate reserves. Now, you've obviously stuck with A$1,250, which is, it's certainly a less conservative stance with respect to the historical assumptions you've guys have used with relating – with respect to prevailing gold prices at that time, and also compared to peers. I mean you've seen Barrick drop their gold price too for reserves to A$1,100. Historically, you guys have used sort of A$300 or A$400 an ounce less than the prevailing gold price at the last 12 months. To end December, that would've meant more like A$1,000 an ounce. Just interested in your thoughts around that. I guess, it's probably a follow-up question relating to, similar to Michael's question.

Yeah, I think the answer to that is I think Barrick, I haven't seen the results overnight. You'd appreciate that we've been pretty buried in getting ready for this morning. But, I think that we'd still be, on average, below the peer group out there. I heard the news that Barrick were moving to A$1,100. I mean, we've made an assessment of long-term gold prices through the way the market sees it. And our own assessment of that price, and we're comfortable at A$1,250. And so, we decided to sort of sip and then really do all the technical cost and rescheduling work with that price. So, I can't give you more than that. I mean, it was just a decision we made.

Understand. Thanks, Greg.

Your next question comes from the line of Paul Hissey from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Yeah. While we're on the points, sorry to labor it, but I just want to ask a little bit more about reserve price assumptions. Obviously, there's a difference between long-term assumptions and sort of what you guys would be using, budgeting for the next year or two. And as a disclaimer, I don't think your long-term views are necessarily different than to ours as a house. I guess I'm just interested to try and understand the linkage, if you like, between setting up a reserve base, assuming those assumptions and what that means for how you run your pits next year and the year after given that we're obviously not experiencing A$0.80 currency and A$1,250 gold price in today's terms.

So we're dealing with averages on those over a very long time period across those assets. Clearly, there are different areas within ore bodies that are more attractive and less attractive. And when we look at some of our open pits, they are focused on areas at the moment in what we see as a pretty tough gold environment that provide us a better margin. In the longer term, we see those lower productivity or lower-margin ounces as decisions to be made in the future. But right now, we're dealing with cutbacks and production that, under current gold price environment, give us a good margin and cash flow.

Yes. So, I mean the obvious extension there is that, so let's say you're below what you would plan to receive at the revenue line for an ounce of gold today, so you need to go to some higher grade material in the near term, so on a one to two year view as you're doing your schedules. I guess the extension of that is if we get three or four years down the track and we don't have gold, sort of a golden currency to the corresponding upside of those averages, then we run the risk that the material that's left behind is no longer economic. I mean, that may sound fairly academic I suppose, but that's a fair comment, right?

I think that's an over generalization. I think the answer is at the moment, something like Lihir and Telfer, what we really focused on is not spending capital and using existing exposed ore to put through the process plant. So, again, it varies asset by asset as you would appreciate. But at Lihir, for example, you saw the grades come down in the last half, but we're not spending capital stripping and running the mine. We're processing what sits on the surface. And in the longer run, the higher grade material is linked to a capital decision. Now, that capital decision is the one that we don't want to make today, but we will make in the future.

So, I guess it is quite a hypothetical outcome for every mining company. You've always got to make decisions about each block of ore and the capital and the cost to produce it, and those decisions are years down the track.

Yeah. Fair enough. Fair enough. Okay. Maybe a bit too complex to discuss at a high level like that. And just one other question from me, just the interest charge for the period – in the absence of further currency moves, is it fair to expect the implied aggregate interest rate you guys paid this half is the right number going forward or is there likely to be changes in interest rates on your debt as per the profile of your current debt?

I think the half just gone, Paul, is a good indication of the future. I mean, the comparison with the prior period – it was higher than the prior period because it was in that prior period that there was a bond issue, so you can see that the average has lifted. The bonds are fixed rate, the bilateral loan facilities are floating rate. So, that's what you got in exposure, it's about 50/50 at the moment.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Peter Harris from JCP Investment Partners. Please go ahead.

Thank you for the presentation. And just a question on Lihir Island and the future there. You mentioned being thrifty on CapEx and you no longer refer to the MOPU project, which is probably good to avoid confusion, but how long can you keep going at the rate of sort of 700,000 to 800,000 ounces a year without significant growth CapEx or moving into [indiscernible] (50:10) three or four years or can you just keep on going at the current rate for the next 20 years?

Yeah. Peter, I think we'll come back to that later in the year. We're not making projections on 2015 and beyond at today's presentation.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And I have a follow-up from the line of Andrew Knuckey from Commonwealth Bank of Australia. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Just two points of clarification. Telfer West Dome deep, is there any exploration at all continuing with the West Dome deep's target area? And then just secondly, I appreciate your comments already with regards to progressively working down gearing. But can you just confirm that 15% is still the target gearing level and how long is the board prepared to live with gearing rates materially above that level?

All right. So, question one, West Dome Deeps, yup, still a target. We did a fair bit of drilling there over the last 12 months. And we're just re-evaluating that technical information and rethinking through when and if we start drilling there again. So, again, that's got a capital decision associated with it. But we still have prospectivity there. And Colin sitting beside me is nodding, but that's something we'll think through over the next 6 to 12 months.

Right. Thanks.

On gearing, we still have a target of 15%. Again, that is a long-term target for us. And I think the board is comfortable with that priority of cash flow of finish Cadia East and then apply cash to gearing, to debt reduction. And that has a medium term – subject to, obviously, prices and operating conditions, it has a medium-term benefit in reducing net gearing.

How should we interpret medium term?

I think in the next few years.

Yeah. Okay. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Rod Clarkson from Lonsec Institutional Equities. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Look, it's another balance sheet side of the issue. But Evolution has been, I suppose, speculated as being up for sale for a few times now. And my understanding is that the board did receive an unsolicited offer. Can you just give us a bit of an update as to how you see that holding and whether it is a short or long-term investment.

Yeah. I think Evolution, again, we think the guys at Evolution, Jake and team, are doing a good job. And they're running that company very well. In the current environment, I'd probably put it on at a very – for a seller, a very low priced environment to be thinking about rationalizing portfolios. Now, we're comfortable with where, what Evolution is doing and where they're going. I'm not going to say that it is a long-term strategic asset for us but we are comfortable with what Evolution is doing at the moment.

Thanks, Greg.

And the remaining question in queue comes from the line of Brett McKay Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just a couple from me. Firstly, can you just confirm that your, according to your accounting policy, that you do perform your impairment testing annually at the end of your financial year?

I'll now pass that to Gerard.

Brett, we do and we also check for indicators and impairments at the half year. And the 4D goes into great detail as to the work that we've done in that regard for this half year.

Does that mean that the, I mean, you've tested at the half year but you haven't necessarily made the adjustments at all in the full year?

No, we've tested at the half year and there has been no adjustment to carrying value other than in respect of exploration assets at West Africa.

Right. So, any of those reserve changes, et cetera, should have flow through from this reporting period rather than the full year?

As we say in the release, our assessments of asset-carrying value as at December 31 will be taking into account the reserves and resources update.

Okay. Fine. Thanks. Just finally on Ridgeway, I note that the reserve there is still 100 million tonnes hasn't gone down with mine depletion, and I assume that the second block is still included in that number. Has there been any work done there sort of around the margins that might give some indication that the mine life there may increase fraction?

I hope everybody's eardrum is still okay. It still lives. Our Ridgeway Deeps Lift 2 is in that reserve and so Colin's, sitting beside me, nodding on that. But the choice on Ridgeway Lift 2 and Cadia East and the different panels within Cadia East are always going to be in competition. So as you look at the longer term, it will be a decision about when that we go back to Ridgeway after Ridgeway Lift 1 versus the options we have at Cadia East.

Okay. So the Deeps Lift at Ridgeway is still being considered?

Absolutely. In the long term, it is still as a choice for production in that plan.

Okay. So if I go back to the, I know it's some time ago, but the October 2012 Investor Day, et cetera, where we had that profile at Cadia Valley with Cadia East ramping up and Ridgeway ramping down, that profile is now being reconsidered. Is that fair to say?

We always reconsider things, but the current plan for Cadia East has not changed. It is really the ramp up of Cadia East and ultimately, the completion of Ridgeway Deeps Lift 1. So, between all of this different panel within the panel cave at Cadia or Cadia East and within Ridgeway Deeps Lift 2, the competition really is around grade. Grade versus capital for each of them.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Harry Mateer from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. My question relates, I guess, back to the balance sheet, but more specifically if you can just update us on any conversations you've had with the rating agencies specifically Moody's which has a negative outlook on the rating, and if you can just comment on the importance to you of investor grade status, and whether or not that's something you're looking to defend?

I'll pass it over to Gerard.

Harry, thank you. We do engage in discussions with the rating agencies if there's any issue with our credit rating. The dialogue is regular and open. The importance of credit rating for us, and the current credit rating as you know is, it goes to market access. If we were to lose it, and again the agencies will make their own decision on credit, having regard to their own view on gold price, et cetera, that wouldn't alter the cost of our interest or any of our credit facility.

So, we don't have any ratings triggers. We don't have any rating step-ups in any existing facility. We don't have any change in coupon that would eventuate as a result of the credits. So, would we like to lose it, our current rating? No. Is it something that would alter our existing cost of debt? No.

Got it. Thank you.

There are no further questions in queue. Mr. Robinson, please continue.

Okay. Thanks, everyone, for attending and look forward to talking to you again for the quarterly in March. Thank you.