Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Colin Moorhead — Executive General Manager-Minerals, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Steuart McIntyre — Analyst, Blue Ocean Equities
Mark Busuttil — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Brenton Saunders — Analyst, BT Investment Management Ltd. (Investment Management)
Paul Hissey — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Brett McKay — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)
Paul Phillips — Analyst, Perennial Investment Partners Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the 2015 Half-Year Results Conference Call. I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Friday, February 13, 2014 [sic] (2015) (00:09).

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker for today, Mr. Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. Please go ahead, Mr. Maitland.

Please welcome. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. Both will be speaking today on Newcrest financial results of the six months ended December 31, 2014.

Firstly, please note the company's disclaimers on the first two slides of the presentation. These relate to forward-looking statements, ore reserve and resource reporting the Competent Person's Statement and the use of non-IFRS financial information referred to in the presentation. Dollar references made in this presentation refer to Australian dollars unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thank you, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with safety on slide three. The health and safety of our workforce and community is paramount. At our quarterly call two weeks ago, I talked about the fatality of a colleague at Hidden Valley in December. This is unacceptable to me and unacceptable to us as a company. And we're working with the MMJV management to ensure that we learn from this incident.

It's in my priority that everyone goes home safely after every shift, and this is why safety comes first because everything else we do. Our lost time injury frequency rate has decreased, however, our total recordable injury rate has increased slightly. This year, we've strengthened our focus on major hazards and significant potential incidents in order to put controls in place to prevent serious injuries. We'll continue to focus on reducing these type of incidents.

Turning to slide four, I'm pleased with the strong operational performance from Cadia and Telfer, driving underlying profit of A$200 million. Productivity improvements and cost reductions were targeted across the group. This is resulted in the group delivering A$268 million of free cash flow for the half. This free cash flow was used to pay A$220 million of debt. We've also recently extended some of our bank facilities, which has further smoothed our debt maturity profile. Gold production was down half-on-half by 6% to 1.1 million ounces, primarily due to mining lower grade stockpiles at Lihir.

At our last quarterly results, we increased our 2015 production guidance by 100,000 ounces to be between 2.3 million ounces and 2.5 million ounces. Higher copper production and a focus on reducing costs and improving efficiencies resulted in a reduction of 9% in the all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold to A$917. In U.S. dollar terms, our all-in sustaining cost was $819 per ounce. Despite lower gold production and prices, our EBITDA margin has remained steady at 36% due to cost reductions we've implemented and a low Australian dollar exchange rate.

However, performance at Lihir for the period was disappointing. We continue to address Lihir's operating performance step by step in line with our approach outlined at our Investor Day. The Edge improvement program continues to deliver results across the entire company. The program engages our people in identifying and implementing initiatives to generate cash, improved productivity and reduce costs all in a sustainable manner.

Turning to slide five. This slide plots the indicative all-in sustaining cost margin at a gold price of $1,250 per ounce of the seven major gold companies against their indicative reserve life. The size of the bubble represents the gold reserves of the company. As we're one of the earliest reporters of financial result this half, we've used September 2014 data, the latest period reported by all companies in order to develop this chart. The dotted circle represents our results for the latest half. We will continue to focus on reducing our all-in sustaining cost through the Edge program and the turnaround of Lihir.

If we move to slide six now, let's turn to Edge. The program is a comprehensive and company-wide initiative that's deep in the implementation phase. To date, it's delivered approximately A$170 million of cash benefits, both one-off and recurring. We have embedded dedicated improvement teams at each site and within some key functions. These expert teams are focused on the principal areas of improving operational performance, reducing spend and maximizing cash generation.

To me, the real and enduring benefit is the cultural change that that delivers to Newcrest by involving more and more of our workforce in our improvement efforts. Edge continues to accelerate the delivery of an owner's mindset to all levels of the organization.

Turning to slide seven. I'll now take you through how each of our sites performed in the half starting with Lihir. Gold production decreased by 68,000 ounce or 18% compared with the corresponding period, mainly as a result of anticipated decline in feed grade from ex-pit and stockpile sources. The all-in sustaining cost per ounce was 17% higher than the corresponding period. The increase was driven by lower gold sales and higher operating costs, partially offset by a decrease in production stripping and lower sustaining capital expenditure.

The focus at Lihir remains on increasing plant uptime, process intensity and recoveries. We'll continue to focus on the areas of crushing, conveyor, milling and autoclaves. There are many Edge initiatives underway at site, which form the backbone of our efforts to achieve our target of 12 million tonnes per annum of grinding throughput rate by the end of this calendar year.

Turning to slide eight. Now let me talk to you about the change in operating strategy designed to increase the throughput intensity of the processing plant. This is the slide we showed you at the Investor Day last October. It listed the five areas we said we would focus on to increase autoclave productivity.

Understanding the detailed mineralogy of the ore body was critical for the first three. The majority of the gold is associated with two main types of pyrite species. The more we understood of the kinetics of the pirate species in the order books, the more we began to question the current assumptions on managing sulfur. What we found is, we only need to fully oxidize the sulfur that contains the majority of the gold. This greatly increases the range of sulfur content that can be processed by the autoclaves and also reduces the constraints previously placed on the mine and the mill. This has increased our flexibility in terms of mining and milling. The results of this initiative have led to a fundamental change in how we now run Lihir.

If we go to the next slide, we can see the difference between the old and the new strategies. The previous operational strategy was to maximize metallurgical gold recovery through complete oxidization. In practical terms, this meant that the autoclaves oxidize more than 90% of the sulfur. The ideal sulfur concentration of the autoclave is thought to be between 5% to 8%, and the mine and mill had to be run in a way to maintain autoclave feed within this range.

By looking at the underlying mineralogy of the ore body, we confirmed that there were two main types of pyrites. Microcrystalline pyrite, which is reactive and high in gold. And blocky crystalline pyrite, which appears less reactive with low gold grades.

The sulfur in the microcrystalline pyrite oxidizes and liberates the gold in a matter of minutes, whereas the sulfur in the low gold bearing blocky crystalline pyrite is more stable and can take over an hour to fully oxidize. By speeding up the throughput rate in the autoclaves, we pushed the low grade blocky pyrite through the system quicker, while still fully oxidizing the high grade microcrystalline pyrite resulting in an increase in overall gold production. There is a slight drop off in recovery, but this is more than offset by increase in gold throughput.

Turning to slide 10. As I flagged at Investor Day, we're looking at increasing oxygen flow rates to autoclaves 1, autoclaves 2 and autoclaves 3. This is what we're doing this month by replacing all the old oxygen flow meters with improved modern fl ow meters, which will allow increased oxygen to the autoclaves. At the same time, we're conducting regular maintenance on autoclaves 2 and autoclaves 3. We expect them to cause a drop in production at Lihir for this month, but this will be offset by the long-term gain in capacity from having the ability to put more oxygen into the autoclaves.

Turning to slide 11. Improving intensity is very important, but equally important is the need to improve the uptime of the plant. As I said at Investor Day, a key focus at Lihir is improving the core disciplines of maintenance and shutdown planning. This slide shows some examples of what we're doing to achieve this. It's a busy slide. So I'll keep it at a high level.

We're challenging every element of our shutdown processes from planning and resourcing through to permitting, execution and quality assurance. Recent shuts in autoclave 1 in the FGO mill circuit demonstrate the increased plant uptime achieved through better planning and execution. We're not reinventing the wheel here. The improvements we've made are just a part of basic operational discipline. We're working on getting these basics right every time and that means working to a plan with clear communication, coordination and quality control. Continuing to address the plant performance is the biggest lever in improving free cash flow from Lihir.

It will take time to rectify and deliver sustained improvement, but we know what needs to be done. We've got the team to do it and it's absolutely our primary focus. I'm confident that future results will begin to reflect the progress we're making at Lihir.

Turning to slide 12. As we discussed at the quarterly results, Cadia significantly increased gold production based on the faster ramp up of Cadia East. We also had a successful breakthrough of Panel Cave 1. Gold and copper production was up 4% and 21% respectively compared with the corresponding period. Higher average feed grades for both gold and copper were a result of Cadia East ramping up and Ridgeway declining. Cadia's all-in sustaining cost per ounce was 22% lower at $236.

There was higher sustaining capital expenditure in the current period, primarily relating to improvement projects, including increasing underground loader capacity and improving the gold room and gravity circuit operations. The team at Cadia have continued to focus on Edge improvements, even while ramping up Cadia East.

By identifying low-cost capital improvements, we were able to increase throughput at Ridgeway from 8.4 million tonnes per annum in the second half of financial year 2014 to 9.6 million tonnes per annum in the most recent half. This increase was primarily driven by improvements in the capacity of the material handling system through simple fixes such as increasing conveyor drive speeds and increasing the payload on the belts.

At Panel Cave 1, we decided to increase the size of loaders from the planned 17 tonnes to 20 tonnes per bucket. We also concreted the loader routes to reduce cycle times. Together, they increased productivity by 22% against original plans.

Through improved planning, scheduling and deployment, we were able to reduce idle time in the underground development crews who are currently building Panel Cave 2. This reduced the amount of drilling and hauling equipment required. The same amount of material is being moved, but with fewer people and equipment. This reduction drove development cost down from approximately A$14,000 per meter to around A$11,000 per meter.

Let's turn to Telfer on slide 13. The workforce has continued to drive down costs, and I'm pleased to say that the all-in sustaining cost is 21% lower than this time last year. Gold production was 2% lower. This decrease was primarily the result of the 3% reduction in milling throughput rates. Compared to last year, Telfer had higher open-pit grades as a result of pit sequencing. There was also a reduction in volume of lower grade stockpile material being processed as there was an increase in underground ore mined.

As I said at Investor Day, we continue to explore all options for realizing the full value of our Telfer operations. This is being broadened to include analyzing future cutbacks in mining scenarios, considering hedges on fuel and metal prices and exploring alternative ownership options. The team at Telfer are doing a great job, and continue to drive cost out of the business. They've taken the opportunity presented by the downturn in the mining industry in Western Australia to renegotiate major contracts. The tailings dam lift, mobile fleet maintenance, underground mining and site services, realizing savings of approximately A$30 million per annum on a run rate basis.

Turning now to our smaller operations on slide 14. Gosowong gold production decreased 10% to 134,000 ounces compared to the corresponding period. The lower gold production was primarily the result of tonnes milled being 12% lower due to the completion of open-pit mining in the first half of financial year 2014.

Today, we also released our updated mineral resources and ore reserve statement. The updated reserves for Gosowong largely replaced this calendar year's depletion, effectively extending mine life to approximately 3.5 years at current production rates. Slide 33 in the appendix outlines the movements in mineral resources and ore reserves.

At Hidden Valley, gold production was marginally low at 49,000 ounces. This was primarily the result of lower mill throughput following the fatality in early December 2014, and the rip in the overland conveyor belt. These factors were partially offset by accessing higher gold grade ore from the Hidden Valley Stage 3.

Bonikro gold production was 20% higher. This was primarily due to higher grade and higher recoveries.

I'll now hand over to Gerard, who'll take you through the financial results for the half.

Thanks, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone.

Slide 16 summarizes the key highlights for the half year from a profitability, cash flow and balance sheet perspective. Statutory profit and underlying profit were both A$200 million. Underlying profit was down by A$7 million or 3% compared with the corresponding period, primarily due to marginally lower sales volumes and a slightly lower realized gold price.

Statutory profit was A$160 million higher, due to the absence of significant expense items incurred in the corresponding period. All-in sustaining cost expenditure was A$145 million or 12% lower than the corresponding period, due to lower sales volumes overall, increased sales volumes from the lower cost of Cadia and Telfer operations, lower levels of production stripping and sustaining capital, and the cost savings derived from our Edge improvement program.

Cash flow from operating activities in the current period was A$566 million. Free cash flow was A$268 million, which is A$497 million higher than the corresponding period. All operations generated positive free cash flow during the first half of the year, at the average realized gold price of A$1,398 per ounce or $1,248 in U.S. dollar terms. Consistent with our focus on debt reduction, A$257 million or $220 million in U.S. dollar terms, our free cash flow was applied to repay debt.

Net debt at December 31, 2014 was A$4.3 billion or $3.5 billion in U.S. dollar terms. At December 31, 2014, we had A$2.3 billion in cash and undrawn bank facilities.

Turning to slide 17. In the first half of 2014, Newcrest's all-in sustaining cost was A$917 per ounce, $819 in U.S. dollar terms. The graph on the top left of this slide shows how the group and each operation performed on an all-in sustaining cost margin basis, in U.S. dollar terms. The graph shows that Newcrest's all-in sustaining cost margin is powered primarily by Cadia, Telfer and Gosowong and that there is significant potential for improved contributions from the other operations, especially Lihir. The bottom left graph shows that we have been able to maintain our EBITDA and EBIT margin and increase our all-in sustaining cost margin compared with the corresponding period.

Turning to the next slide, slide 18, we see the drivers of the change in underlying profit after-tax between the current period and the corresponding period. In relation to gold revenue, the impact of the fall in the U.S. dollar gold price was largely offset by the impact of a weaker Australian dollar and gold sales volumes were down primarily due to lower volume from Lihir.

In relation to copper and silver revenue, the impact of a low U.S. dollar copper price was more than offset by the combined effect of a weaker Australian dollar, and the 27% increase in copper sales. The net effect of the other items on the graph largely cancel each other out, and their particular drivers are detailed in the Management Discussion and Analysis released today.

In summary, the strong performance of Cadia and Telfer offset the comparatively weaker performance of Lihir in the period.

On to slide 19, cash flow from operating activities in the current period was A$566 million, which is 148% higher than the corresponding period. This increase reflects marginally lower sales revenue for the reasons we've discussed already, and at the corresponding period was characterized by significantly higher payments to suppliers and employees and a large tax payment.

Turning to slide 20, free cash flow was an inflow of A$268 million compared with an outflow A$229 million in the corresponding period. The key drivers of the increase in free cash flow in the half were a planned low level of production stripping expenditure, which reflected the completion of major CapEx at Telfer and Bonikro in the corresponding period. Lower major capital expenditure with comparatively lower construction activity at Cadia East and lower level of sustaining capital and exploration spend, and of course the much higher level of operating cash flow shown on the graph.

The next slide, slide 21 is the same graph we showed at the last Investor Day regarding our debt maturity profile. We recently extended the tenor of A$700 million of debt facilities and the bottom graph shows the benefit of this extension to Newcrest's debt maturity profile.

As a reminder, these graphs show what the debt maturity profile would look like, if we drew on the longest dated facilities first. In practice, we generally utilize a shorter term facilities to keep our interest costs lower. The key points to make in relation to this slide are that there are no significant debt payments due until the 2019 financial year. That more than half of the debt is in the form of long-dated corporate bonds that the company's bank debt facilities have good tenor and that there is considerable headroom in those bank debt facilities. As I said earlier, at 31 December 2014, we had A$2.3 billion in cash and undrawn bank facilities. We do remain focused on the reduction of debt.

Turning to slide 22. There's been volatility recently in exchange rates, metal prices and fuel prices. To help explain the impact on our business, we are providing sensitivities on the PNG kina and Indonesian rupiah exchange rates on this slide.

We're also providing details of our existing FY 2015 fuel hedges by site, and the price at which we hedged at the start of the financial year. The key takeaways that should current oil prices prevail, we are positioned to benefit positively in FY 2016. We've also included updated sensitivities in relation to metal prices and the Australian dollar exchange rate, which can be found on the appendix on slide 32.

I'm happy to take any questions in a moment, but for now, I'll hand back to Sandeep.

Thanks, Gerard. We're now on slide 24. In December, we announced the progression of stage one of the Golpu project to feasibility stage. This is a world-class project with first ore targeted for 2020. By targeting the high value core of the ore body first, we've increased the economic returns from the mine by seeing cash flow positive earlier as well as funding the infrastructure that will support future stages of the ore extraction and processing.

Turning to slide 25. So in summary, our key focus areas continue to be safety and operational discipline, cash generation and profitable growth, all underpinned by a culture of accountability and personal ownership.

In summary, these are the points I'd like to leave you with. I'm pleased that the strong performances of Cadia and Telfer enabled us to rise gold production guidance to be between 2.3 million ounces and 2.5 million ounces. Guidance on all-in sustaining cost has been reduced to be between A$2.3 million to A$2.5 billion of the back of increased copper production and Edge cost reduction initiatives. We achieved an all-in sustaining cost of A$917 per ounce, which delivered a margin of A$429 per ounce for the half. The work the team have done with Edge has helped drive our all-in sustaining cost down by 9%. And we're committed to keep pushing for sustained lower costs.

Lihir was not at expected production or costs levels, but we believe the initiatives we're implementing including the change on how we operate and mine the mill for sulfur will enable us to achieve our target of 12 million tonnes per annum of grinding rate by the end of this calendar year.

With that, I'll now hand back to the operator, who'll open up the line for your questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question is from the line of Steuart McIntyre from Blue Ocean Equities. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks, guys. Listen, first question I have is on Telfer. The language in your release today sort of suggests that that pit cutback is now looking more attractive. From memory, the CapEx there was in the order of around A$230 million. Can you confirm that and please talk a little bit about the likely timing and how much that might extend the life of the open-pit if the investment review gets the green light?

Look, we're in process of doing all the review around cutback costs and what have you. And with what's happening in Australia at the moment, with the downturn in the industry, we expect to get pretty competitive costs for doing the cutback. So now is the time to do the comprehensive review and in light of the new conditions by the A$ exchange rates, A$ gold prices. So if we do do the cutbacks, it'll help extend the life of Telfer, but that depends on the exact mine plan in the cutbacks.

Okay. Thank you. At Lihir, you're talking about targeting a grinding capacity of 12 million tonnes per annum by the end of the calendar year. Should we be thinking that the 12 million tonnes is the total throughput of the plant, as thinking as the grinding capacity being the bottleneck, so to speak? Is that how we should see?

Yeah. Well, the grinding rate [audio gap] (25:52) is that's our target. So yeah, that's how you should view it. All the material that ultimately that [audio gap] (26:01) to go through the grinding mills. So that's how you should view it.

Total plant throughput should be towards 12 million tonnes per annum by the end of the calendar year.

That's our target.

The final question, with this change in operating strategy with regard to the sulfur grades, you talk about higher throughputs at a small cost of recoveries. What would you say is a good estimate for the overall plant recoveries, going forward? I mean it's been sort of 82%, 81%, around 80%. Is that probably a good number? Or I mean a bit of a feel on that would be very helpful.

Look, I don't expect them to change overall because the work that this is doing, which might result in a small loss in recovery will be offset by work we're doing in the float bag and the NCA recoveries, which is about increasing recovery as well, which is all part of that third prong of the Edge initiatives surrounding processing.

The key to the sulfur is it, then it takes restrictions away. So it gives us more flexibility around mining and milling. So for example, milling rates in the past had been reduced somewhat because of the restrictions we've put around sulfur input to the autoclave. That is no longer an issue. So the milling rates can now go freely without worrying about the tight control of sulfur into the autoclaves. What it also does of course is, allows us to increase the throughput rate of the autoclaves, which is the gold mass flow rate. So they are two of the key benefits from the new way of operating based on the scientific information which we've gathered over the last period.

Okay, so bottom line it sounds to me like while the recoveries could be down a little bit as a result of that change in strategy, there are other offsetting factors, which means net-net the overall plant recovery at Lihir should stay about the same. Is that what I'm hearing?

That's how you should view it.

That's very, very helpful. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question is from the line of Mark Busuttil from JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. My question is about the balance sheet, A$4.3 billion worth of debt. I notice that you're generating pretty good cash flows, but also, if you consider the things you may be spending your cash on, whether it's Telfer, whether it's anything you're going to do at Lihir, there's Golpu cash flows and all that sort of stuff too to consider as well. This time last year, you put out a release saying that you had no intention of raising equity. Can you sort of reiterate those sort of comments today, or provide some sort of indication of where you guys are at with your balance sheet?

The position remains the same. So under current market and operating conditions, the Board remains comfortable with the gearing being at this level in the short-term and medium-term given the near-term cash flow outlook for the group.

The other thing I do want to – it's in the release as well, the other thing I do want to point out is, our debt in U.S. dollar terms has actually gone down by A$220 million. And the reason that's important is because our product is sold based on U.S. dollars. A number of our operations are U.S. dollar based. The Australian dollar, although the debt may have gone up in Australian dollar terms, we pay it back in U.S. dollars. And net-net, our operations in Australia do generate a higher U.S. dollar margin at a low Australian dollar exchange rate because the non-U.S. dollar based costs are in Australian dollars. So I think the [audio gap] (29:45) – our U.S. dollar debt, that's the currency that the debt is held, and that is the currency of our product. So that's the one that you should focus on.

I think some of the feedback I've been getting is that A$268 million of free cash flow, but the debt went up is a kind of simple way of looking at it, sort of the other way. That's all right. That answered my question. Thank you very much.

Really in Australian dollar terms, you might be right. But U.S. dollar debt has come down by A$220 million. Gerard, would you like to comment more on that?

Thanks, Sandeep. Mark, another point I mean, you're right in saying that on a translation basis, our net debt went up. But on a total asset basis, net assets went up net of that by about A$600 million. So if you look at the statement of comprehensive income with our equity account, the U.S. dollar assets that Sandeep referred to, also went up in Australian dollar value. So that's why you see, basically gearing ratio unchanged notwithstanding that depreciation. The U.S. dollar assets have got more than compensated for in net equity increase relative to that increase in debt.

Okay. Thank you very much. Appreciate the feedback.

Your next question is from the line of Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. You line is open. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Look, first of all, I'd like to say thanks for the reporting granularity disclosure. It's fantastic, but it makes it really low risk for all of us. We can get your profits, your cash flow, your debt, almost exactly as you report it. So thank you for making it so easy and for making us make no errors. That's great.

I'm going to start with the guidance on the Gasoil page, page 22. Is that, effectively, a full hedge, or is there any sort of exposure? I'm trying to think about how we think about the opportunity for 2015, and how we relate a Gasoil price to the actual oil price we can all see?

Yeah. I'll take that, Michael. Short answer is, we at the start of each financial year and have done for many years, have hedged out our expected consumption fully for the year. So what you do see in terms of volume is that amount that we expect to consume over the year, and at the halfway mark about the consumptions are broadly reflective of 50% being consumed at the remaining above those volumes on that slide to be consumed in the back half.

In the footnote, there you'll see the prices that actually we hedged at. They're also shown in the annual report last year. So you can see the A$119 a barrel, which was the prevailing rate at that time, and also the heavy fuel oil price. And broadly speaking, that heavy fuel oil is linked to the U.S. dollar. So that should give you a sense of estimating the magnitude of the difference to the current spot.

My specific question was Gasoil. Is that the oil price that we can readily monitor? Or is that some sort of derivative that has a link, but isn't quite the oil price?

Yeah. There's a crack spread, Michael, between an underlying oil price and that's about A$30 or something a barrel. So yes, you can work off the Brent and put a what's called a crack spread to get to the diesel cost to us.

Okay. Thank you. Secondly, Sandeep, the thing on page nine that's going to get me awfully twisted up, the microcrystalline pyrite and the crystalline blocky pyrite, how much of the gold is in each? And how does that change with time between – is there a high proportion of one to the other in stockpiles versus what's left in the pit?

Depends on the ore type, Mike. I would have thought this was right down your alley, but I think you'll find that the microcrystalline is more prevalent in boiling zone and much less prevalent in the argillic is the way to look at and half way in between for the other ore types. So that's the way to look at it.

And of course as we change the operating strategy in December, we're learning more about it, we're testing it to its limits and clearly a lot of that information to get it with all the other improvements that we're doing, particularly around uptime, we'll have to feed into future mine plans and how we go about mining and processing Lihir in the future going forward.

Okay. And then finally on Telfer. The changed depreciation guidance reflecting the change in the reserve there, but still at this stage the remaining reserve is probably significantly ahead of the current capitalized ore that can be extracted without a cutback. Is the depreciation basis on the entire reserve, not on mine plan basis?

Michael, in broad terms, it is across the reserve. You'll appreciate that there was a large impairment in last years. And so the actual amount of depreciable assets is actually quite smaller at Telfer, but as a general policy, we depreciate over reserve and less of course to the extent that its equipment that has a defined life when depreciated over its life.

The implication of that being that if you do proceed with another cutback and spend more capital, that depreciation amount goes up by the increment of the additional capital, but the base amount stays the same.

The denominator stays the same.

The base amount of depreciation that you're running at now because you're already depreciating across the reserve base.

Of that. Yes, correct.

Your next question is from the line of Brenton Saunders from BT Investment Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. I just wanted to expand on the Telfer comments. There was a reference made in the presentation to ownership options. Can you just expand what is meant by that? What are those options?

Well, I mean as we do the review of Telfer, so, as we've said before, we've expanded the review because of the – well, the sudden drop in A$ which no one predicted including us and the drop off in oil prices. So that then obviously makes cutbacks more attractive compared to where they were several months ago. So we're going to look at potential hedging activities around that. And as part of that review, as I've always said from the very start, if there's people out there who value our assets higher than us, then they should talk to us. And this is just opening that up as a possibility.

Okay. Thank you. If I may just ask another. And thank you for the additional divisional disclosure. But I just was interested in the reference to all of the divisions making free cash flow. I can see some of the all-in sustaining costs divisionally are higher than the gold price.

Brenton, thanks. Gerard here. Yes, if I can direct you to the segment note, note five in the MD&A, you'll see there that we have on a by-asset basis, the EBITDA for each asset and even below that the capital. So you'll see there is a good proxy, it's not the free cash flow, but it's a good proxy for free cash flow. And so those numbers give an indication of the basis of our confidence in saying that every asset was free cash flow positive. The difference to AISC of course is inventory cost and that's a non-cash item, but an amount that has to be included in the AISC calculation and you'll appreciate that would you have some level of stockpiles consumption at all of our sites.

Right. I'll have a look. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question is from the line of Paul Hissey from RBC. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Two questions from me. First one, just on the costs, you sort of talk a lot about Edge and cost out. I think you mentioned A$170 million of benefit. In another area, you've mentioned a 20% odd reduction in head count. Simplistically, if I have a look at half-on-half revenue and EBITDA, it's sort of telling us the implied cost, if you like, operating cost for the two halves is flat at A$1,280 million – A$1.2 billion.

So I'm just wondering, given that you've moved circa less than 25% less material, and you milled a little bit less, half-on-half, yet you've still spent effectively the same in operating costs. Just can you sort of explain the confidence or the measurement of cost out and progress on that front when you're moving less material and spending the same amount of money?

Paul, hi, Gerard here. Look there are a couple of things going on there. I mean you got a mix effect and we want that out in the results. And then, it was obvious from the quarterlies as well. You've got strong performance at Cadia and Telfer. And so you're getting good production and good copper production out of those assets. On a comparative period basis, obviously Lihir produced what 6% less, and its costs stayed broadly the same. So on a sustaining capital basis, you can see that's low, you can see there is a low level of expiration spend. So, that's a basis of us saying that we are taking some of those cost benefits to the bottom line. But again, on a mixed basis, if you reconcile it back to those headline numbers of gold ounces produced, you won't see it.

Yeah. It just seems to me, like in dollar million terms, the only headway you're making, realistically, is through sustaining capital and lower stripping.

If you look at some recapping on Edge, this is first of all, we're just starting at on the exercise. We're just in the first sort of six months to eight months of Edge. It attacking productivity as well as production, as well as costs, but one-off and recurring, and also part of that's changing the culture in which we operate.

It also, you've seen the results from Lihir, they're not what they should be, and as we go forward and turn around at Lihir, I think we'll start to see the real effect of the work going on up at Lihir. So I would just view that A$170 million as work in progress, that's just a size of what we've done in the recent period. And we'll continue to update progress on Edge as we go forward. That's the context in which you should receive it.

Okay. And the second question for me, might be an easier one. Just the general philosophy on why you have oil hedging, but no currency or gold price hedging? I know you've talked about gold price hedging before, but clearly, the oil price there is to protect the cost base in some parts of your business, just the broader philosophy around that going forward.

I mean, Gerard might want to comment more, but it was working very well for us until this year. So you got to be circumspect about – but the overall result I think has been okay over a number of years. We're looking it again with fresh eyes as we come up towards the next year, but at this stage it's...

That's obviously a legacy position, right? And, I guess, it just seems unusual to have a view on protecting a part of your business through one avenue, but not through other avenues.

Paul, Gerard here. I mean, Sandeep, so I think these where first put in place back in – sorry, not these hedges, but the concept of hedging this was first put in place back in FY 2010. And I think there was a degree of balance sheet protection on a margin basis given that there was a large capital program going on. But this year, in a philosophical sense, which is your question, we haven't made any hedges in relation to FY 2016 or beyond. And we're in a dramatically different position now. I see margins are stronger. We're free cash flow positive. And so, yeah, we do have a different context going forward to that which we had going back.

Okay. And one last question. I'm not sure if this might be a question for Colin. I'm not sure if he's there, but just a technical one in the context of Telfer. For you guys to classify something as a reserve, Slifo asked you about the difference between the reserve life and the remaining mine life. And obviously, remaining mine life, I guess, is a function of economics right now, whereas perhaps reserve life is a sort of broader economics. In order to include something as a reserve, do you have to generate a return on the capital you spend as well, or do you guys run reserves at sort of a sunk cost makes a single dollar profit sort of cut-off?

Yeah. Thanks, Paul. It's Colin here. By definition, the reserve has to be NPV positive and demonstrated by our PFS level study and we're there for all of our reserves.

So all right. So the cost you need to justify a project going ahead, and be included in reserves, clearly recovers the capital as well. I'm just wondering why there's a discrepancy then between the planned mine life at somewhere like Telfer and the remaining reserve life.

We have investment decisions. And whilst all the reserves are NPV positive, it's a company decision whether or not to make each investment. So we need to go through our investment approval process for each pit stage. And then that's why Sandeep and Gerard are looking at our options for Telfer, because those economics are obviously stronger today than they were a year ago.

But the reserves were higher last year, right?

Key reduction this year reflects the decision to take the M-Reefs that mine down out by underground extraction, which does deliver a higher return on those ounces and through a large cutback. And the reduction was the loss of marginal low grade material that would have come out in a pit. So we ended up with a smaller optimum pit for Main Dome, but we still – and some of those ounces have been taken into an underground mining context going forward.

Yeah. So the low grade M-Reefs come in and the stock work between them that comes out when you do a cutback now fall out in an underground scenario.

That's it.

Just more broadly though, I mean if the economics are sufficient for it to be called a reserve, then why wouldn't that be in the mine plan?

Most of them are. And in the Telfer options review, we'll determine exactly that. What a reserve doesn't do -we're not applying a hurdle rate there to our reserves. They're all positive. It's just how positive they are is a function of a review we're about to do, and the assumptions you make around the metal price and exchange rate.

So I think the bottom line is, we do have life of mine to mine the reserves. Those decisions at each time you come up again them about mining future ore bodies are decision [audio gap] (46:15-46:20) will or won't do it.

Sure. Okay. The line's cutting out a bit there, I'm not sure whether it's me or you, but I think I've got the gist of that. Thanks.

Operator, are there any more questions?

Your next question is from the line of Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks, and good morning. It's a broader question on reserves and resources. In the reserve resource statement, the assumed copper price went up. Also the Aussie dollar assumption went up. I was curious to know if they had of been held the same, would we have seen a materially different reserve and resource number comes through either at the group level or any specific asset? And then more broadly, just the thinking that went into taking both the copper assumption and the Aussie dollar assumption up at this point in time? Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks for that. We [ph] got to (47:48) assume something. So at the start of the planning process, we assume our metal prices and exchange rates and you could argue we might have got the exchange rate one wrong. What I can say is the – we don't like to change them all the time, because it's not helpful. None of our operations are particularly sensitive to those changes. So to answer your question, I wouldn't see a material change in any of our assets on the basis of that alone. As I said, with Telfer the big issue was taking the M-Reefs out.

Thanks for the clarity.

Your next question is from the line of Brett McKay from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Morning guys. Just quickly on Telfer, when do you expect to be able to be in a position to tell us more about the cutback?

Sorry, sorry about that if you got that static at your end. Look, we haven't set a definitive date for finishing the review, but as we've said previously, the decision on the next cutback really needs to be taken by about October this year. So certainly I expect it to be complete within that timeframe.

All right. Thanks.

Your next question is from the line of [ph] Ian Lee from Allianz Global Investors (49:16). Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. I just want to ask you on the cash flow from operations page here, I think it's 19. There is the payment to suppliers and employees; that's a major benefit there. I'm just wondering what exactly did you do there. [ph]

Lee (49:39), that's a period on period comparison and you've got a few things going on there. In the last – this time last year, we had a very large outflow as a favorable working capital position was unwound, following the June 30 period end. You've also got cost reductions taking into account, the lower head count and also some of the Edge benefits that have occurred in the period.

Okay. Thanks.

Your next question is from the line of Paul Phillips from Perennial Growth. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. I've got a couple of quick questions. Just one's a follow up to Paul Hissey's question. In terms of determining the NPVs for the reserves et cetera, what's the capital you use?

Paul, I'll take that. In our accounts, you'll see on, today released again, page 54, you'll see the discount rates we use 5.5% for Australian dollar assets and U.S. dollar assets depending on their location anywhere between 5.25% to 5.75%.

Thanks. And the follow-up question, and I appreciate we probably might have to take this offline, but and it's around the autoclaves at Lihir. So from what you said earlier, Sandeep to Slifo, I'm just trying to understand how the bottleneck is, or how it frees up the bottleneck on the milling component. Because from what you described to Slifo into the microcrystalline and the bulky crystalline material, it sort of feels like it's still pretty much in line with our previous understanding of the ore body, which is that the boiling zone of course is the direct feed. So I'm just trying to understand how it takes the pressure off the mill?

So this is not a direct speed versus flotation manner. What it is, so, the kinetics of a reaction is the speed at which it burns in the autoclave when it pertains to these particular pyrite. So our previous strategy was to burn fully oxidize, so as much sulfur as we possibly could in the autoclave.

What this shows is, we don't need to do that, right. So the tight sulfur ranges and the oxygen to sulfur ratios we've used in the past, no longer apply. So the only sulfur that we really need to burn fully is that which is associated with the higher grade gold to sulfur ratio material, which is these microcrystalline. So how does it affect the mill and mining.

In the past, we had to run the mine blending and the milling rates to suit a particular sulfur feed into the autoclaves. So for example, if our calculation show that we had too much sulfur going to the autoclaves. By the old methodology, we would ramp the mills back to reduce the tonnage to the autoclaves. We don't have to do that anymore.

So that frees up the mills to run to their natural capacity. And now the focus will go back as we bed in these autoclave improvements to maximizing the milling rates to utilize the headroom that is now being realized through this new operating strategy. That's how I would look at it. And certainly, we can talk in more detail as we go forward, but that is essentially how it works.

Right, yeah, okay. I think I understand it now. Perfect. Thanks.

There are no further questions. I'll now hand the call back to Mr. Biswas for additional or closing remarks.

Right. Well, thanks everyone for participating today. So I'll look forward to presenting our Q3 production results in April. That's all for now. Thanks.