Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gregory John Robinson — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director & MD, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Colin Moorhead — Executive General Manager-Minerals, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Mitch Ryan — Analyst, Macquarie Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Stephen Gorenstein — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Jo Battershill — Analyst, UBS Securities Australia Ltd.
Chris Cahill — Founding Partner, Quest Asset Partners Pty Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Brett McKay — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)
Geoff Breen — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
Joseph J. Kim — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Newcrest Mining Half Year's Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There'll be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Friday, the 8th of February 2013.

I'd now like to hand the call over to your first speaker today, Mr. Greg Robinson. Please go ahead, Mr. Robinson.

Thank you very much, and good morning to everyone and welcome to our December 2012 half year financial results. Gerard and I will be – Gerard Bond and I will be talking to you today during the presentation but I'd like just to start with a couple of introductory comments.

You've really heard me talking previously about the importance of the 2013 financial year with a planned completion during the year of our two major projects and the establishment of our production growth platform for the future, and associated with the earnings and cash flow for the future. So the start of both of those has commenced and I'll certainly be talking about those further in the presentation.

I've also indicated previously that the financial year is one of transition for the company. We are still making substantial investments. Again, you'll see it through the half year results into new ore sources at our existing operations. And again, they're going well and during this half year, again, well positioned on those operations for better reliability and increases for production in mines and our process plants.

Our half year financial results really do reflect the transition period I'm talking about. I am pleased to say we've reached that pivotal point where Lihir MOPU is now operational. And Cadia East has also transitioned, as I mentioned in the quarter, to operations. Cadia East's still got a lot of work to do with the second lift and other activities but we are both – both are now in commercial production.

So, for us, the investment really has been made. We are now into the production ramp-up phase and our focus is really shifting from building and looking after that growth platform to the hard work of generating returns for shareholders. So, with that, I'll just keep turning into the presentation, the first page, the disclaimer. Really, today, we are going to talk also about reserves and resources. We do have some forward-looking statements so this page really covers those in the disclaimer.

Turning the page to page 4, I'll just give you a quick snapshot of the financial outcomes. Gerard's going to take you through a lot more detail on that very shortly. Briefly, the statutory and underlying profit, A$320 million, no difference between the two. Cash flow from operations, A$225 million. The results were lower than the previous corresponding period. The primary driver for that was lower copper and gold sales revenue and to a lesser extent the price movements.

The half was very much characterized by investment in growth, and we've talked a lot about Cadia East and MOPU. And over that three years, we've really been spending on the capital side around those two projects. And again, during the half, we put another A$1 billion into those projects for completion. We also invested over A$230 million in stripping and ore inventory and again we'll go through that later in the presentation, but that's really ore access at our existing operations and a lot of that associated with Bonikro and Telfer.

We continue to invest in exploration. We've got a very heavy Brownfield program going on there and for the next generation of projects that we're looking for. And during the half, we spent about A$84 million.

Notwithstanding the considerable investment in future production for the company, particularly over the last two years, the company still remains in a very strong financial position. The CapEx has peaked for us now, gearing is at 16.9% and we would expect to reduce from that level gradually going forward. Our liquidity is still very strong, and again, Gerard's going to talk about that later. We did maintain our interim dividend at A$0.12 per share.

Turning the page to 5 now, our operational performance. I'm not going to go on with that for too long. We've really talked a lot about that during the quarter. We did have gold production at 953,000 ounces for the half. The second half of the year is expected to be far stronger with Cadia East and Lihir ramping up, and we do expect a better performance from all of our other operations.

Our cash margin for the first half was A$903 an ounce and our cash cost of production is A$715 an ounce. I mentioned earlier that we're pleased to have reached the pivotal point for our major growth projects which have been really commissioned at this point. We're maintaining the low end of guidance, as I mentioned in the last quarter but we've already discussed that that will be very dependent on the speedup of – sorry, the speed of the ramp up that we're doing at Lihir and the smooth access to the high-grade stopes at Gosowong. And again, we're driving very hard on all those fronts. And if we reach – if we're reaching the guidance level, it will be at the low end of that guidance level.

Turning the page for an update on the Lihir MOPU commissioning on slide 6, just the progress here we, in the quarter, in the December quarter couple of weeks ago reported that we were at the final commissioning stage and really all the components had been individually commissioned and we were busy commissioning the plant as an end-to-end production system. Well, I'm pleased to advise that we did finish that integrated commissioning, and the project was handed over to operations on the 1st of February. We have already seen the autoclaves reaching for periods process capacity of over 1,100 tonnes an hour.

Our primary focus going forward is the reliability of that plant and increasing the rate of ore feed progressively for longer sustainable periods over this half. And again, the breakdown of the Lihir performance for the half that we're expecting is in the last quarterly report that we put out.

On corporate activity on page 7, Newcrest completed a couple of good corporate activities during the half and again, we covered a lot of this in the quarter. We did expand our bilateral facilities and increased our liquidity. Then we repaid a lot of our short-term debt back by going back to the long-term U.S. debt markets. We sold 7.5% of Gosowong which we've already discussed. And very pleasingly, we've done our enterprise agreements at Cadia and Telfer.

Turning the page to reserves and resources, we've got some good results on the reserves and resources for the money we've expended. We're still, at this point in the company, adding the reserve and resource positions at below the – the resource positions at below about A$20 an ounce so it's pleasing to do that, good value add.

We've completed our annual update of reserve and resource estimates for this announcement. There was an update of the Golpu estimate as part of the technical pre-feasibility we released in August 2012. Today's position includes those outcomes for Golpu and really updates for all the other drilling activity at all assets over the last 12 months.

Newcrest, we already have a very long life reserve and resource position and this one really further enhances it. The gold resource increased by 8% to over 160 million ounces. Copper is now up another 5% at over 21 million tonnes and we've got a very sizable silver position as you would see.

The main additions really in the resource side were at Lihir, at the north end of the pit where we've been doing a lot of the drilling up at the north end of the carpet side of the ore body and at Cadia East. Net of mining depletions during the year, our reserve position increased by 10% and we're now at 87.3 million ounces and our copper reserve increased 43% to 12 million tonnes. The majority of the growth in gold reserves was – and copper was really due to our drilling activities and the technical pre-feasibility at Golpu, Lihir, Cadia Valley, and Namosi.

The position really does underpin our long life long-term growth profile and the gold prices we've used in that reserve and resource upgrade has been A$13.50 an ounce for the resource and A$12.50 per ounce for the reserve and our copper estimate is A$3.50 for resource, A$3.10 per pound for the reserve.

Turning to slide 10 really shows the change in reserve and resources over the past 12 months with the yellow font highlighting the major growth areas. You can see significant growth in the gold, copper, and silver reserves at Wafi Golpu, Lihir, and Cadia.

At Lihir, I've already mentioned we've added the 7.6 million ounces to the resource base and 1 million ounces to the reserve. It was really towards the north end of the deposit that we were doing that where we've been really defining a lot of our drilling.

At Wafi Golpu, it matches the prefeasibility study that we released in August. And again it's very consistent with the gold and copper resource and reserve additions we announced at that time. And at Cadia Valley, we've added another 4.5 million ounces and 1 million tonnes of copper to the resource position and then in a recalibration of our silver, about another 17 million ounces of silver to that deposit. So, a pretty good result. And as I said, I think the additions here are really at sub – for the resource, at sub A$20 an ounce which is very pleasing.

Now, with that I'd like to hand over the microphone to Gerard Bond who's going to go through the financial results.

Thank you, Greg and good morning everyone. As Greg said, I'll take you through the financial results in more detail and outline a lot of the drivers of Newcrest's underlying financial performance over the past six months. I'll also provide you an overview of our balance sheet position and some of the context behind our interim dividend announcement this morning.

Starting with slide 12 and as Greg mentioned, the 2013 financial year is very much one of transition for Newcrest in a number of areas and this will come through in the slides on the following pages. We'll be able to talk a lot about the effects of the transition to different ore across the asset base. And that's transitioned from the completion of two major Brownfield projects to the ramping up of production at the two expanded major operations.

So, starting with a snapshot of the movements and the key elements of profit between the December 2011 half and the December 2012 half. As Greg mentioned, statutory and underlying profit were the same at A$320 million for the current period. And on an underlying profit basis that was 48% lower than the December 2011 half. This reduction was driven by a 23% reduction in [indiscernible] (11:55) our assets. Some of the main drivers of the lower production listed on this page, this slide 12, and I'll go through more of those in detail on later in the presentation.

A$90 million of the difference in sales revenue from the prior period relates to revenue from Cracow and Mt. Rawdon, both of which were divested in November 2011 as previously advised. Mine production costs were low in the current period by A$14 million with some ups and downs broadly offsetting each other.

A reduction in activity following the divestment of Cracow and Mt. Rawdon was offset by a higher mill throughput at our other operations, particularly at Gosowong. Underlying labor cost rates were marginally higher, reflecting inflation and the strength of the Papua New Guinea Kina. But we also had some procurement wins as we renegotiated contracts, the benefit of which will flow more fully into the full year results.

Operating cash flow of A$225 million was lower than the prior periods, largely in line with the low level and timing of sales receipts which accounted for A$649 million of that A$784 million difference. We also had a higher level of investment in waste stripping as Greg mentioned. It's A$99 million higher in this half. And from a reporting purpose, that comes off the operating cash flow. We also had some timing variances in working capital.

So if I move to slide 13, and this slide – the top graph there shows the 23% reduction in sales and revenue in the current half. Most of this reduction in revenue 92% to be precise was driven by lower sales volumes as a result of lower production. The remaining 8% of the decline is due to lower gold and copper selling prices as listed.

With respect to the impact of metals prices, you can see that the realized price for all our metals was lower in the half, reducing revenue by A$41 million in total. Of the changes in production volumes, half-on-half, the key ones were as follows: Cadia Valley, it's been feeding lower grade stockpiles to the mill, as expected, since the completion of the open pit mine at Cadia Hill in 2012, June 2012. And we will continue to rely heavily on these stockpiles whilst the Cadia East panel cave ramps up over the remainder of this year and next. This resulted in reduced production of nearly 100,000 ounces relative to the corresponding prior period.

At Telfer, the current mine plan incorporated a higher proportion of ore sourced from the West Dome open pit and that's proved to have high content of sulphur and that adversely impacted gold recoveries.

At Gosowong, as we mentioned at the quarterly, poor ground conditions meant that we had limited access to the high-grade ore from Kencana underground mine, requiring us to draw a lot more ore from the lower grade Gosowong pit. And as you'll see on the next slide particularly, that had a really big impact on production from Gosowong.

Lihir had lower production mainly as a result of low throughput and that reflected the shutdowns-associated with the electrical system failure as previously announced and tie-ins relating to MOPU. And there was a 50,000 ounce delta due to the Cracow and Mt. Rawdon operations.

The graph at the bottom left hand side of the page there shows the effect of this revenue from this lower production and sales on operating margins because as that came off the top line and there was a 1% reduction in costs.

Slide 14 on the next page looks to provide you with more detail in a graphical sense. Largely, what we've shown and spoken about in the quarterly announcements, in fact all the data is actually drawn from the quarterly announcement. But it just makes really clear what was the driver of the period-on-period production, variance between the December half 2012 compared with the December 2011 half. And it really impacts the highlights – sorry it really impacts the effect of the changing gold grades and recoveries on production in this current half period because, with the exception of Lihir, pretty much mill throughput at all of our operations was basically unchanged or higher.

So, on a site-by-site basis, at Cadia Valley you can see the effects of the cessation of mining at Cadia Hill in June 2012. You see much lower material movement and ore production and you can see that the mill grade was sourcing from those lower grade stockpiles. We increased mill throughput, as you can see, but the lower grade really translated into that lower metal production.

At Telfer, we had a big increase in material movement and ore production. We had favorable mill grades and near identical mill throughput. However, as mentioned, recoveries declined significantly due to elevated levels of sulphur in the West Dome ore feed, so at a basically constant mill throughput, production was resultantly lower.

At Lihir, as mentioned, throughput was low due to the electrical failure we had in the oxygen plant. The change in mining volumes and mill grades is a function of the mining sequence, transitioning from Lienetz to the Minifie pit. And you can see significant uplift in the recoveries resulting from the new NCA circuit and the good performance of the flotation circuit. Even though recoveries were higher, the combination of lower grade and lower throughput fed through to lower production.

At Gosowong, we saw – you can see the impact of that lower grade as a result of not getting access to those high-grade face positions underground and relying on that low-grade Gosowong open pit material. Mill throughput increased quite significantly, but was not able to offset that effective grade decline. At both Hidden Valley and Bonikro, they both had higher levels of mill throughput but at lower grades. And in the case of Hidden Valley, lower recoveries, and that's what drove their lower production. So this chart as shown in this page doesn't say anything different to what we've shared with you before, but it really does highlight the drivers of lower production and where those impacts have been felt across our operations.

Moving on to slide 15 now, and this shows the key movements in earnings before interest and tax between the two December halves, in the December half ended 30 June 2012, an EBIT of A$471 million. All the blue bars on the left highlight what I've already outlined in terms of the – and reflect the flow and impact of lower gold, copper and silver sales volumes and to a lesser extent, the effect of lower prices on earnings.

We did have a A$40 million reduction in mine production cost and an A$8 million reduction in depreciation expense, some of which was driven by the divestment of Cracow and Mt. Rawdon in the prior period. And the large inventory and deferred mining bar in green there, depicting a favorable A$94 million impact on EBIT, shows that the higher proportion of that mining activity in the current period was focused on moving waste, exposing ore and building ore stockpiles, which represents a significant investment in future production. This push in waste stripping is nearing completion at Telfer and at Bonikro, which will allow us to – access to higher ore from both those sources going forward.

Moving to slide 16 now and onto operating cash flow, which was A$225 million in the period. That was significantly lower than that achieved in the corresponding prior half. The main driver of the reduction in operating cash flow was the lower sales volumes and prices which, when combined with the timing of the receipts from customers, reduced overall receipts by A$649 million. The reduced sales volume also flowed into lower cost of sales, giving us a favorable A$127 million cash effect.

We've already mentioned the high level of waste stripping. This shows the cash impact. We've invested over A$157 million in waste stripping activity in the period to access that future ore source. It was A$99 million higher than the prior half.

The next two bars show the effects of move – or the relative variance in movements in finished goods and working capital. In relation to finished goods, the prior half was very much characterized by a large reduction in finished goods in the period. It started with a high inventory balance and was very low by the end of the year. In the current half, we had an A$11 million increase in finished goods and that results in a big contrast of A$67 million in finished goods between the two periods. It's overwhelmingly shipping, timing related and we expect to wash out in the full year. Other working capital movements listed there reflect a relative reduction in payables and increase in stores inventory partly offset by a relative reduction in ore inventory build up between the two periods.

Slide 17 compares the capital expenditure between the December 2012 half and the corresponding prior period. It's very clear from looking at this graph that both periods were characterized by a significant investment in major growth projects. And you can see the reduction in the current period as both Cadia East and Lihir MOPU projects approached completion.

Current period expenditure at Cadia East of A$303 million was approximately 50% lower than that in the prior half year, while expenditure on the Lihir MOPU project of $177 million was approximately $40 million lower than the prior half. Development expenditure increased in the current period primarily driven by the expansion of the Cadia East panel cave footprint and progress in relation to the development of Lift 2 while sustaining capital is slightly higher than the previous year due to the Lihir plant refurbishment program.

Operating expenditure of A$84 million in the six months at the end of December 31, 2012 was higher than the prior period. That's overwhelmingly a timing difference we expect to maintain our full year spend in relation to exploration. And as mentioned already, it was – there are lot of activity focused on drill testing a number of new mine targets as well as advancing major projects and testing Greenfield prospects.

Capital expenditure is expected to be in line with guidance overall. By the end of the year, you'll see a continued decline half-on-half in – as we go to the full year 2013 result. And that's just reflecting the continued wind down of Lihir MOPU and Cadia East spend. Development capital expenditure will continue at Cadia East as the panel cave 1 footprint expansion continues and, likewise, at panel cave 2.

If I could turn to slide 18, and as mentioned by Greg, Newcrest increased its bilateral bank loan facilities to $2.5 billion when we renewed those facilities in September 2012 for terms of three and five years. During the period, we issued $1 billion of corporate bonds in the U.S., $750 million of which are due for repayment in 2022 and have a coupon of 4.2% with the remaining $250 million due for repayments in 2041 at a coupon of 5.7% per annum. And the proceeds of both bonds were used to repay existing unsecured short-term debt.

The increased bank facilities and the long-term nature of the bond issues significantly improved our debt maturity profile and our financial flexibility. We remained in a very strong financial position at the end of the half year I should say 31 December 2012 gearing at 16.9% and undrawn bilateral debt facilities of over $1.4 billion. As the blue box along the bottom of this page indicates, we expect to reduce our level of bank debt over the next 18 months as we complete the major projects ramp up and major project capital continues to decline.

Turning to slide 19, Newcrest has maintained its interim dividend of A$0.12 per share which continues the recent trend of increasing the payout ratio of ordinary dividends. The current period payout ratio represents 29% of profit. The declaration of the dividend is balanced to the low profit in the six month period with the outlook for future profitability associated with expected high levels of production.

I often get asked how we plan to manage our balance sheet so the blue box along the bottom there highlights it for you. We intend to maintain a conservative balance sheet with low gearing, target level of around 10% and to return surplus cash to shareholders.

Looking ahead for the second half of this financial year on slide 20. Greg has mentioned that we have achieved this pivotal point of transition with the completion of the two major projects at Cadia East and Lihir. And their ramp up underpins the production outlook for the remainder of the year along with improved access to high-grade ore at Gosowong and Telfer in the second half of this year.

Site costs, you can expect to increase in dollar terms as activity ramps up at Cadia East and Lihir, although, we do expect to see some ongoing and full year benefit from the softening supply market. As always, our labor cost will be subject to FX exposures in Papua New Guinea and Indonesia.

On a unit cost basis, we expect cash cost and production cost to reduce as an increased proportion of our total production will come from our lower cost operations. We expect these production and cost benefits to have a favorable impact on our operating cash flow which, together with lower capital spend in the second half, should strengthen the company's gearing and net debt position by the end of the year.

So, that completes the financial results component and I'll now hand it back to Greg.

Thanks, Gerard. Just a couple of more comments about our focus. I don't think it'll surprise anyone where our focus actually currently sits. So, if we turn to slide 22, just a quick comment about Wafi Golpu. We haven't really talked much about it today but we're very much focused on the key engineering decisions and design that are going into that project and the stakeholder alignment. This now turns into our focus project for the company as we complete Cadia East and complete Lihir MOPU.

Over the period, over the half, the real focus has been with the stakeholder groups. We're talking to the government and the regional and landowner groups looking to make sure that we get very good alignment so that when we move to feasibility, the project development path is clear.

We've been doing a lot of appraisal drilling there so we've been looking at Lift 1 and Lift 2 and we've had some good results there in Lift 1, some better grades for gold and copper and we looked like we've got still a northern extension to Lift 1 that looks promising.

In the deeper drilling, we have confirmed the geological models on the eastern side of the deposit, and again, so the results are strong. We've got a couple of good holes going down now, so we'll have some interesting discussions in March to look at. And then if we look at our capital expenditure estimates, we're really working through those at the moment just to make sure that we really have nailed down correct designs, selection of contractors and certainly, the containment of costs and an ability to deliver against the plan we've put in place. So watch this space on Wafi Golpu going forward

Turning to page 23, just a couple of final comments about really our short-term focus overall for the company. Our key objective right now is generate strong returns from Lihir and Cadia. We've put a lot of money into those two assets and our ambition right now is to make sure that they return what we expect. We do think the first half is below watermark for us on the production profile. And we are expecting a stronger performance not just from Lihir and Cadia, but from all of our assets in the second half, and the company is very focused on that.

Capital expenditure, Gerard has mentioned this. We do expect it to decline now. So we really are looking to generate returns and contain that capital profile going forward, and I'll just point you back to the five year estimates that we put forward in August last year.

We've maintained our guidance. We're going to maintain our guidance as we go through this Lihir and Cadia ramp-up. But clearly, the March quarterly will be a very good update on how we've progressed with the two project ramp-ups and with our access to those high-grades stopes at Gosowong.

Away from production, we'll be finalizing our five-year land owner agreements with Lihir, so that's an activity that's going to go on over the short term.

And so with that, I think I'll finish my commentary. I have Gerard here, as you know, through the presentation. I also have Colin here if anyone wants to ask any questions on the reserve and resource side of things. And with that, I'll finish my formal commentary and open it up for any questions.

We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mitch Ryan from Macquarie. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Just wondering if you could give us some color. Obviously, MOPU has been handed over to the operations team and the autoclaves have achieved up to 1,100 tonnes an hour, but can you give us more of a what's it achieving on a weekly or monthly sort of average basis currently?

Look, we're really only a week and a bit past that commissioning phase, so I think I'll wait for the March quarter. The ambition there is, obviously, to get those autoclaves to that rate with the appropriate grades and on a reliable basis. So again, what we're shooting for is that 75,000 to 85,000 ounces average over the half year for Lihir and we'll give you a good update in March. The only thing I'd say so far is that so far, so good.

Okay. So, are you prepared to sort of say that whilst it's an average of 75,000 to 85,000, is there a weighting into that – into the fourth quarter or...

It is a – it will have that weighting because, again, we expect the reliability to improve over the six months. But again, we'll have a look at that performance in March and, again, talk to you at that quarterly about how it's ramping up the success of the ramp up.

Okay. Thank you. And the final question is, Colin, can you touch on what the percentage of the reserve and resource upgrade was related to metal pricing what was actually due to the drill bit, just percentage wise?

Sure. In terms of resources, the metal price, its right about 50% of the gain, the rest was volume coming off the end of the drill bit. Reserves [audio gap] (32:00 – 32:03) probably, the reserves were more off the end of the drill bit in terms of the conversion of Golpu with the completion of the PFS from resource to reserve.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gorenstein from Merrill Lynch. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Couple of quick questions for you. One, you've obviously mentioned the cost pressures are abating a bit. With the increased production that we're going to see, what sort of cost reduction on a unit cost basis do you think we might be able to expect?

I think we're going to back to that guidance level that we've already disclosed back in August for the full financial year. So, if you go back to those guidance estimates that's our expectation for the year. We are getting benefit from those commodity contracts and some of the contracting labor that we see for the second six months. And we saw that pressure alleviate during the mid-year and then we saw the contract prices in renegotiation coming down marginally. And that benefit should hit us in the second half year. But it's small benefit to us in relation to the productivity gains.

So I think we've got to keep that in perspective. It's good to see costs finally having some containment, but the real games for Newcrest are in the productivity on the sites.

Great. And just a quick question on Hidden Valley, can you just highlight what and how many different options are on the table to get that in line?

Just – again, I've mentioned it in the past, the key for that site in the operating cost profile is the overland crusher that we're putting in in March. That's the one we've two months laid on. That will remove that trucking, that expensive trucking from the upper pit to the mill.

And the second major improvement that we really need to see there is the metal recoveries on site in the mill.

So, there's a lot of work going on those two and we find – and again, I mentioned it in the quarter, we just think the performance is totally unsatisfactory and we're going to wait for this crusher to go in. We're going to take those trucks down, work on the material movement and spend a lot of time on the metal recovery issues. And hopefully in that last quarter, you're going to see a vastly, better improvement.

Excellent. Thanks for that, Greg.

Your next question comes from the line of Jo Battershill from UBS. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, Greg. Just a quick call – a bit – just on the soft issues at Lihir. Can you provide any more color as to what the delays and what the holdup is with the land owner negotiations?

There's no holdup. It's just a long process with a lot of constituent stakeholder groups and we'll just work methodically through that with that process. So don't – I'm not anticipating any major issues. We're just working methodically through with the stakeholders.

Okay, thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Chris Cahill from Quest Asset Partners. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, thank you. Good morning. Couple of questions. Could you just remind me your second half CapEx expectations and the following year? And secondly, due to the enormity of the projects, will we not hear anything? It sounds like we won't hear any news for another eight weeks till April.

So maybe I'll just answer the first one. I think we need a couple of months of really running these projects. Cadia East is already showing that it's really well and truly on its track and performing better than we expected. And again, it just follows its path to the next major initiative, which is the major crusher underground. And when that crusher goes into place, we go to the next phase of ramp up for that last quarter. So, I think Cadia East is, again, well disclosed and in a good steady performance.

On Lihir, again Lihir is just being commissioned and I think we really need to see a couple of months of really running that integrated plant and I think the March quarterly will be the appropriate time to really talk more about that. And again, so far, so good. I think we've individually commissioned all those components. The plant is running reasonably well and so far, so good.

Could I just ask on the autoclaves? The plan on the site visit last year was that it was going to come up and down, I think 3 times. How many times has the autoclave been brought up to these levels?

So I think the level, so far, is we've taken them up and down over the last couple of weeks twice and it's already done what we would have thought is capacity on one of those times, and it's running comfortably at that thousand-tonne type level. And we would expect, obviously, over this next – over this quarter and next quarter, to start to sustain that rate over the period and again, reaching those production levels of 75,000 to 85,000 ounces. So, I'd like to give you more color on that, but it's very early days and again, so far so good.

And on the capital side, I'll just turn to Gerard quickly for a comment.

On the capital, the full year guidance for this year was A$1.8 billion to A$2 billion of CapEx. We've maintained that guidance. You can see that we spent a shade over that to the half year. For the next year, the guidance that we gave back in August of 2012 on approved CapEx totaled A$1.5 billion.

Thank you.

Okay.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thank you. I've got a couple of niggling financial questions, if I may. First of all, tax rate, each period you say we should revert to a 30% tax assumption and each period you do better. How should we think about the R&D deductibility? Is there something there that's ongoing? And secondly, the exploration component, where does that come from please?

Sure, Michael the exploration component comes from Papua New Guinea and the R&D likewise, in this case, Papua New Guinea as well. There is a bit of a timing effect in this half year that will kind of wash out more fully in the full year. A more ongoing or reflective rate would be in the order of 26%, 27%. It's low this year because of the timing and accounting for prior exploration expenditures.

Okay, thank you. Secondly, capitalized interest, now that the projects both are deemed commercial, what will capitalized interest be ongoing? Is there a capitalized interest component because of Lift 2 with Cadia East, or does all the interest get expensed from now?

There's no capitalized interest on the two completed projects. Wafi Golpu continues to the extent that we expend there, but we don't – but it's of a lower spend.

And Lift 2 guys, there's also capitalized interest.

Sorry, I missed that.

And Lift 2. So Wafi and Lift 2 are the two big projects, the Cadia East Lift 2. So that will continue to have capitalized interest. The Lift 1 and the entire MOPU project will come now into interest expense.

Okay, so how much debt is there then, against those two the – continuing to be capitalized?

So it's really associated, again, with the volume of CapEx we've already disclosed. So I think you could look at the CapEx profiles that we've disclosed on sort of Cadia East and on what we've got with Wafi Golpu, and put them against the interest expense and you'll get the proportion pretty right. I don't have the numbers right off the top of my head, Mike.

Okay, thank you. Thirdly, O'Callaghans, what's the status there? It's no change in the reserve resource statement. It was a project that got a lot of profile and has gone very, very quiet.

It's still travelling along in pre-feasibility and it's done some very good metallurgical work and the recoveries of the tungsten are excellent. We are talking with parties up in Southeast Asia on a commercial basis about sales contracts. We're not in any great hurry to push the project forward. But it's in a solid position.

So its reserve and its resource hasn't change because we're not really doing any major appraisal drilling or model changing. We haven't changed our tungsten or base metal assumptions which would change any of the reserve or resource positions there. And we're methodically working through that project. So again, it just wasn't a big issue to talk to today.

Okay, thank you. And then finally on Hidden Valley, slight upgrade in reserve. I think it was there, presumably from metal prices. Is the cut-off grade there correct in that the costs you're delivering are pretty poor and that's a head grade that's well above cut-off grade? So are you satisfied that the cut-off grade doesn't need to be amended, particularly given that one head grade has been less than – with feasibility and recovery, has been materially less than feasibility?

All good points, Mike. And our point is that the operating cost doesn't reflect what we think that operation should be doing. So what we're working with in metal recovery and cost reduction through the points I was making on the overland conveyor, say that we should do substantially better, which again means we think our cut-off grades are about right. And when we look at the reserve and resource, again, I think [ph] I'll open it back to Colin, (42:25) but we haven't seen an issue there.

Oh, not at all. It's – the issue's been getting it down the hill.

Yes. So Mike, give us a couple of quarters to sort that out. I mean let's get this crusher in place, get the costs down. We'll give it a fair trashing on the metal recovery piece in this third and fourth quarter, and we ought to be able to get it back into good shape.

Okay. Thank you, Greg.

Your next question comes from the line of Brett McKay from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Just had one around accounting standards and the need to apply the IFRIC 20 standard from the 1st of January. Can you give us an idea of how you're going to adjust for that and how we should think about that in the second half relative to the first half?

You'll see it take effect from July 1. So, as we report from there, you will see how it kicks in. It's just really moving the deferred stripping into like a capitalized form comes through the depreciation charge.

So, will that impact any of your strip ratios? I guess you will provide some guidance for the second half – oh, sorry, for the first half of next year when you apply that. Should we consider strip ratio adjustments to account for that?

Look, we're still working through the detailed mechanism of the calculation. We expect that the way we currently do stripping is kind of – will fit with the new approach and it's certainly not something that actually alters the way we would account for stripping within our ore bodies. But the industry as a whole is all – we're all working through how that's going to play out in the reporting of those numbers from 1 July.

Okay, great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Breen from Royal Bank of Canada. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Even when I look at the gold production and gold sales, sales were about 3,000 ounces higher and you're saying the sales included pre-commissioning of Cadia East. Are they in the P&L or not?

Not, Geoff.

No. But we sell the ounces because we want the money, but they actually count as capitalized ounces.

Okay. Thank you. And on the dividend, even though you're flat half-on-half, I know you don't have a strict policy, but is it still an aim to have progressive dividend?

Absolutely, love to pay more dividends, but watch the gearing rate. We've got that target of 15%. You know the profitability was much lower for the half and payout ratio increased to 29% for this half. As our cash flow lifts, we would certainly like to pay more dividends.

I've heard a target of 10% before. What's that number? I don't think I've heard before.

The target's like on a long-term basis. We say our maximum level of gearing is around 15%, but on a long-term basis in a steady state, 10% is more the preferred. It's like an efficient level of capital – sorry, efficient level of debt, but still low.

Thank you. And the last question. I thought you might have been into the higher grade in Gosowong, is that not true now?

So, we have moved the stopes back to the high-grade areas and so for January, we're starting to access those stopes and produce those ounces. And again, it'll depend in the half year at how reliably we're accessing those stopes, and we'll talk more about that in March. But at this point, Gosowong is accessing those ounces.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Kim from JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. The CapEx guidance that Gerard mentioned earlier, A$1.5 billion for next year, that sounds a little bit higher than what I was going for. So just wondering, outside of Cadia East, where's most of that CapEx going to go to – outside of Cadia East and Lihir?

Well, I can I say it's predominantly Cadia East.

It's sustaining CapEx A$400 million to A$500 million. Cadia East sort of A$400ish million. Lihir has about a A$300 million type spend but sits in floatation and sustaining capital. Wafi Golpu ends up between the two partners. We haven't committed to what that budget is going to be next year, but that's likely to be in that A$50 million to A$100 million range again. So if you sort of add all that up, it's going to get you into about that 1.5 range. There are some smaller projects, obviously that sort of progress internally within the company. Exploration spend for us, again, should be in around that A$150 million range. So that should get you.

If you want to look at the breakdown again, go back to that August announcement because we did actually have that number in the five-year guidance.

Yeah. Now, I've just got that opened, sorry. Thanks very much for that, Greg.

There are no further questions at this time, Mr. Robinson. Please continue.

Okay. Thank you, everyone. Again, I just emphasize the point that the focus for the company, really, is on these two project ramp-ups at this stage and the cash flow and the return against these investments in the periods going forward. So I look forward to talking to you in the – for the March quarter and thanks for your attendance today. Thank you.