Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gregory John Robinson — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director & MD, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Ronald J. Douglas — Executive General Manager-Projects, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Geoff Breen — Analyst, RBC Securities (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Ian Preston — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Partners (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Sam Berridge — Analyst, RBS Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Mitch Ryan — Analyst, Macquarie Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Levi Spry — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)
Jo Battershill — Analyst, UBS Securities (Australia) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Newcrest Mining 2011-2012 Half Year Financial Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Friday the 10th of February, 2012.

I'd now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Managing Director and CEO of Newcrest Mining, Mr. Greg Robinson. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome to everyone and thank you for taking the time to attend half year results. I'll just turn through the title page to disclaimer page. It's our normal disclaimer. So anyone wanting to look at forward statements, ore reserves, competent people et cetera on that page.

Now turning through the highlights page on page three on to the first page of the presentation, page four, today – and I'm not going to go through the points on this page. It's really just the summary of the company. But, today, we are going to have three speakers, so I'm not the only one going to be talking. What I'll do is I'll give a quick summary of the results and the reserve and resource statements and a couple of other points. Then our new Finance Director, Gerard Bond, who joined us in the first week of February, will give a more detailed review of our financial performance during the half. And then our Head of Projects and Studies, Mr. Ron Douglas, will be providing an update on those areas. And finally, I'll make some concluding remarks before opening it up for questions.

Turning the page on to the financial highlights, the half year tied together the strong prices that we saw during the half, a reasonable production effort, reasonable cost control to produce a record half year result for Newcrest. The first half of the financial year our underlying profit increased 17% to A$611 million. Our statutory profit increased 50% to A$659 million. The really big drivers were the gold price was clearly very, very strong for the six months and we had the full six months of the Lihir assets onboard versus the prior half.

Cash flow from operations was very strong at over A$1 billion, which was a 9% increase from last year. Capital expenditures slightly above that the A$1.2 billion. We're at an accelerated rate on our two big projects at the moment both on the Cadia East and the Lihir MOPU project. So that was as expected. The balance sheet still remains in very good shape. We got 8% gearing and significant undrawn bank loans. And finally, I'm very pleased to announce that we've increased our interim dividend again to A$0.12, up from A$0.10 a share to A$0.12 per share.

Turning the page to the exploration, near term growth, new wave of projects, we dealt a lot of – with this at the quarterly discussion and Ron will talk more about it today talking about our two big projects, Cadia East and MOPU. We'll also have a brief conversation about prefeasibility of Wafi-Golpu and Namosi.

On the exploration side, again, we went through a detailed explanation of the exploration results at the quarterly and you all have seen in that result we had some very good high grade intersections again around Wafi-Golpu, Lihir, Gosowong and Telfer. We will be increasing our spend growth in exploration for the second half. And, again, we'll report those results as we come through the quarterlies.

Turning the page to the corporate update page, firstly, reconfirm the guidance that we altered back in December. During the half we did have some other external events; we did complete the A$1 billion bond offering. We repaid our shorter term debt and basically left those facilities now undrawn. We did appoint Gerard, who'll be the next speaker on the financial results. And lastly, we divested or finalized the divestments of Cracow and Mt Rawdon to Evolution Mining. We've made a A$55 million profit on the sale of those two mines and we continue to own 33% of Evolution and we're very supportive of the strategy of that company going forward.

Turning the page, Newcrest value chain technologies, at the recent Melbourne Mining Club presentation, I talked about the increased emphasis by Newcrest on technology. We do believe this approach will increase Newcrest's productivity and ultimately open up other opportunities for our company.

Our approach is going to be very practical and we are emphasizing faster experimentation on the basic operating areas and operating environments that speed up interaction and reaction at sites. Some of the opportunities we're looking at – some specifically are block caving preconditioning, which will have good results we think for Cadia East Lift 2 and then taking these results through to Wafi-Golpu as we look at the pre-feasibility and ultimately feasibility there.

We're definitely looking harder at open pit mining and we spend a fair bit of time looking at what's going on in Latin America and following some of those trends, improving our waste rejection, obviously to reduce increase our throughput to SAG mills at higher grades and reduce our energy. And for doing that we're looking very closely at rock mineralogy and different course of separation techniques. These will have some very good applications both at the Telfer and the Lihir stockpiles.

So we've identified a number of areas to improve in our operations, and we have appointed teams to look at short and longer term improvements in these areas. The opportunities we're looking at are really sensible improvements, say, existing technology and it's really matching the operational challenges and opportunities. So later in this year, there's not enough time today to really talk through this with enough care, but later in this year we will conduct an Investor Day. That's probably going to be somewhere early October, and we'll spend a lot more time explaining our approach to technological collaboration and where we're looking to improve our assets going forward.

Turning the page to reserves and resources and then on again to the bullet points. As announced previously, Newcrest has moved to releasing the annual reserve and resource statements with the half year financial reports. There's been really no significant changes to estimates of reserves and resources since that June report. We have the impact, sorry, the impact of adjusting the opening position has been the divestment of Mt Rawdon and Cracow.

We've looked at the mine depletion, and we've looked at increasing our metal prices for the reserve and resource calculations. And that's basically resulted in an increase in both reserves, a marginal increase in both reserves and resources. There is a separate public statement and the detailed report and again I'm not going to go through that here in the presentation because the changes haven't really been that material.

The next material change as to resources and reserves we'll expect by midyear and the outcome with the completion of the Wafi-Golpu prefeasibility study, where we'll really have a harder look again at the resource type, but in particular where the reserves go.

Turning the page to exploration expenditure, for the half we spent A$66 million. The focus of the exploration spend as you can see on the page was Papua New Guinea in Lihir and Wafi-Golpu, Telfer, Gosowong and Côte d'Ivoire. We capitalized about 50% of the expenditure and that's again because we're really drilling around our Brownfield and reserve definition activity.

In the second half of the year, we expect to spend at a higher rate. So I'd expect we'll spend somewhere around A$90 million to A$100 million and that will include more greenfield work at Wafi-Golpu around the transfer zone and certainly in Côte d'Ivoire on the regional basis. And, again, we'll be reporting most of those results in the quarterlies going forward.

Turning the page again, it's to the financial results. With that I'm going to handover to Gerard and he'll take you through a more detailed explanation of the result. Thanks, Gerard.

Thank you, Greg, and good morning to everyone on the call. I'm very pleased to be a part of the Newcrest team now and doubly pleased at the first time I get to talk to the results of the company. They are record profits and cash flows.

If I look at slide 13, you can see the statutory profit growth of 50% in the half. The primary drivers of this increase, as said by Greg, were higher increase – higher gold price, having the full six months of Lihir and Bonikro in the portfolio compared with four months in the prior period and the profit on sale of Cracow and Mt Rawdon in November 2011.

If we were to adjust the statutory profit of both December half years for the effects of the hedge restructure cost, the cost of acquiring and integrating Lihir in the prior half, and for the profit on the sale of Cracow and Mt. Rawdon in the current half, then you see the underlying profit for the December half year is 17% higher than the prior period.

Looking to the right of that graph, that slide I should say, you see the operating margins remain strong. And this is in the period where we have considerable cost pressures, particularly in relation to energy, fuel and labor.

As Greg said, the cash flow from operations is up 9% to over A$1 billion and not as high as the rate of change in the underlying profit because as I will go through later, there has been an increase in future production in the form of deferred stripping and inventory build. Also worth noting that the sale of Cracow and Mt. Rawdon was a non-cash item in the period.

If we turn the slide to slide 14, sales revenue growth was up 19% driven primarily by the 21% increase in gold revenue. This gold revenue increase was overwhelmingly due to price which was 20% higher in Australian dollar terms. This higher gold price was applied to sales volumes that are up 1% in the half. The issues associated with production in the current period have previously been detailed by the company in the past six months and include rain related impacts at Lihir and Cadia Hill and the total plant shutdown at Lihir in August 2011.

Copper revenue was 4% higher, notwithstanding price being 2% lower period on period due to higher production in sales in the half, and sliver revenue rose at an impressive rate due to stronger price and sales in the half.

If we turn to slide 15, you will see what drove the 22% increase in the dollar value of cost of sales in the December half. FX was favorable by A$12 million. We benefited by the stronger Australian dollar in relation to U.S. dollar and Indonesian rupiah denominated costs and that was more than enough to overcome the adverse effects of a stronger Kina against the Australian dollar in the period, which increased our Kina denominated costs.

Higher prices for our inputs increased cost by A$74 million in the period. Costs generally are challenging in the industry with the biggest rates of change experienced in energy, fuel, maintenance and labor. And if I was to illustrate how that impacted us specifically in the half, for example a new power contract in relation to Cadia Valley commenced on July 1, 2011, which had a rate of price change inclusive of government charges 20% higher than previously.

Lihir's power costs rose in the period as a result of the price of heavy fuel oil rising by 24% over the prior period and our fuel costs generally rose by 24% in Australian dollar terms reflecting the change in higher benchmark prices.

You'll all be familiar with the fact that we have very tight labor markets in the industry with rising labor costs impacting us directly both through employee salaries and indirectly through maintenance and mining contracts. Whilst on the subject of maintenance, we rolled off a very favorable five year mobile fleet maintenance contract at Telfer at the start of calendar 2011. So from January this year – January 2011, I should say, we've been paying at the higher rates and you've seen that in the maintenance slide.

The large increase that you see there of A$225 million is due to increased activity in the period compared with the prior period. A$91 million of that reflects the extra two months of Lihir and Bonikro costs and consistent with them being with us for six months rather than four. A$70 million of this increase relates to a higher level of mining activity generally. We moved 29% more tones in this period compared with the prior period. This was primarily waste mining, especially at Telfer where the rate of annual material movement has lifted from 50 million tons to 90 million tons approximately.

At Ridgeway, mining activity is 50% higher than what prevailed in the prior half. And Bonikro mining activity more than doubled to something approximating 9.8 million tons. Other contributors to that higher level of activity include higher maintenance activity, most notably the Lihir total plant shutdown in August. And we have additional manning at Telfer in association with a change in the roster arrangements.

Not all of that increase in mining activity goes to the cost of sales in this period, A$41 million as you can see there has been deferred until production comes from that relevant area. And there has been a buildup in ore inventory, which contributes to a net A$49 million increase in inventories.

Treatment and refining costs were higher on the back of higher price linked charges and higher freight cost and royalties also rose in line with the increase in revenue. The depreciation that you can see there is up A$26 million in line with higher rates of production from Ridgeway and Bonikro in particular.

If I turn to slide 16, you will see the EBIT by ongoing operation. It shows that our EBIT was sourced from the four main assets. EBIT growth was achieved at the majority of operations with only Telfer materially lower period on period on the back of lower grade as has been previously communicated. The EBIT growth was most significant at Cadia as a result of strong performance at Ridgeway and also Lihir reflecting the full six months of ownership rather than four. The growth in the earnings from both of those operations is notable as having been achieved despite the rain related impacts previously discussed.

Gosowong continued to deliver a strong EBIT, marginally down due to lower grade and lower grade was also the primary driver of the change in EBIT at Telfer.

If we turn to slide 17, strong cash flow funding future growth. The strong cash flow in the period has been the primary source of funding for the capital that's being reinvested in the business. This slide shows that in the half, there was a significant increase in major project expenditure, primarily associated with Cadia East and the Lihir MOPU project. The high level of sustaining capital expenditure is consistent with our expectations and guidance. Around half of this is at Lihir as expected and is in part largely – in part due to having Lihir for a full six month period, not four months.

A sustained level of exploration expenditure is consistent with our expectations and guidance and a slightly higher development CapEx shown there relates to efforts to access lower costs ore at Cadia and Telfer in particular. Full year guidance on total CapEx remains unchanged.

Turning to slide 18, Newcrest has a strong financial position. The U.S. bond raising referred to by Greg in November of last year provides us with a significantly stronger balance sheet as measured by a much longer dated and smoother maturity profile. It also provides us with an alternative to the shorter channel funding provided by the bank market.

The 10 and 30 year financing that occurred in November of last year as depicted in purple, and you can see that in addition to being well priced, it was also very long-term funding. Our maturing private placement debt is evenly spread whilst our bank credit lines remain largely undrawn and this provides us with considerable flexibility and liquidity. Our bilateral banking arrangements mature progressively over three months starting in December of 2012. We would be looking to shortly engage with our banking group to ensure that we continue to secure strong banking relationships that support our business activity.

Gearing to the right, you can see remains strong at 8% at yearend, which is well within our preferred maximum gearing of 15%.

On slide 19, as Greg said and as announced to the market, the directors have determined that the interim divided be increased A$0.12 per share up from A$0.10 per share previously. This graph shows that it continues a pattern of Newcrest increases its dividend payments over time in a manner consistent with its dividend policy, which basically seeks to grow the dividend in moderate and sustainable manner in line with financial performance while balancing our capital commitments and commitment to a gearing ratio. I would also draw your attention to the fact that we anticipate after 30th June of this year paying franked dividends.

With that, I will hand over to Ron to cover the projects.

Thank you, Gerard. As I look at the slide titled Project and Studies, I point out to the listeners that this is a shot taken from the coal box of the oxygen plant which gives you perspective of the Lihir site and shows the – us growing the construction in the near-term.

If we turn to slide 21 of your pack, this is the growth pipeline. It has been issued previously and I represent this just to show the activity that is moving through the business. I will be talking to the two major studies and the two major projects that are highlighted there. And so without further ado, I will move forward on to the first which is the Lihir Million Ounce Plant Upgrade, the MOPU project as we call it. This is the first step to deliver the potential of the Lihir ore body. It's essentially a duplication of the existing process to take the plant to 11 million tons per annum. And depending on the head grade delivered to the front of the plant, this will have either 200,000 to 300,000 ounces addition to our output.

Since half-year the December cutoff we have now progressed to 75% complete at this moment. And we have a clear sighter on the completion – all contracts awarded complete manning. As separable portions within this plant, we have handed over neutralization, Cynadation, absorption, it's been commissioned and the operational team, are now running that. The power supply was handed over in last year in November and now it is providing power into the grid to stabilize it and support the new plant coming on.

In this quarter, we're currently commissioning the crushing circuits, which will provide reliability to the operation. And next quarter we'll see the milling coming on as separable portions. The big step change in our production comes with the oxygen plant and new pressure oxidation vessel which is the autoclave, which is shown in the photo there. They are due for completion in the September quarter. And we will start ramping that up in the December quarter as we head to operational production. This is known technology, we are using similar technology to existing, and so we expect no surprises, but the usual hiccups in commissioning.

If you move to the next page Cadia East, this is our second big development and it is a Panel Cave and process expansion at Cadia. As indicated there, we're 100% committed. We know our cost going forward, there is a tail and that tail is Panel Cave 2. If we look at where we are on Panel Cave 1, we've done 20 kilometers of mine development to which is our first production point, Panel Cave 1. As Greg was alluding to earlier, using technology we've drilled 400 meters from the top of the ore body and hydro-fracked at one meter intervals. We have done 150-meter uphole blasting and now the cave is starting to behave well seismically and we see cracking and fracking as we expect.

We have developed or drilled or developed 20 draw bells which delivers this 40 draw points and Panel Cave 1 is poised to start ramp up subject to the materials handling system, which is about a week away. So we're still trucking at this moment in time. Once the materials handling system commences in the near future, we'll start the gradual ramp-up through the subsequent quarters.

We are 200 meters from Panel Cave 2, linear meters, which is at 1,400 meter depth some 400 meters below Panel Cave 1. And that will – and that development will continue into the future and that will be Cadia East delivery as a total production point.

And we look at the processed plant and the photo on this page is of one of the processed plant features. We are 70% complete. The Ball Mill was commissioned in the first quarter of 2011 to provide flexibility to the operation. We had a major tie-in in December where we're putting the screening and crushing plants and we have also finished the water infrastructure, the Blayney filter plant, the 132 KV delivery to the plant is on its way as well.

So that has all progressed well and operations are now starting to accept these. All very early days, we expect floatation in the high-pressure grinding rolls which are specifically to deal with the harder material coming from Cadia East will be delivered in the June quarter. And at that point, we'll start commissioning Cadia East in proper. So we have a good sighter on it. It is a complex operation. It'll take us sometime to ramp up, but we're heading in the right direction.

If we turn the next page to Wafi-Golpu, this is one of our world-class opportunity in PNG, being developed in partnership with a joint venture Harmony. It is – we're doing a pre-feasibility study at this moment in time and scheduled for completion in the June quarter. We are progressing to this state and at this moment in time. We have engaged competent individual for review. This is part of our process to ensure that we have reached the right technical solutions. We are still drilling the ore body as it was heard in the quarterly presentation, it keeps on growing. There is some competition now, however, for drill rigs as we try and gather geotechnical data for cave design and process plant design.

We expect production in financial year 2017. We're holding that. This will become clearer as the pre-feasibility study is finalized as we look at both Wafi and Golpu sequencing and depth of the gold to extraction level where we start the cave. And that will come in the future presentations.

As I've noted, this is – we're working with our communities and the government to develop this. We've had initial agreements put in place with landowner communities, enable access roads to portal. So, it's all starting to move forward and we have our Cadia East development team working with Wafi in the Wafi-Golpu team to look at how we develop down to the cave. The production range, given there, reminds the range that we have presented before. This is a world-class ore body and it will deliver at a world-class rate. And the other information being costs and capital, are unchanged.

If we turn to the final one being the Namosi study. This is our opportunity in CG. If I needed to define it, I'd call it a Cadia Hill look-alike in a tropical setting. By that I mean it is a conventional pit, conventional process plant tailings and waste rock being held in earth and impoundments. I've tilted it Beachhead production and in that essence it is a 16 million tonne per annum proposal at the moment which is out of scale on 1 billion tonne ore body. However, this gives us an opportunity to understand the setting on which we are operating.

We had deliberately slowed this development. We have previously – we're moving aggressively, but we're deliberately slowed to work with landowners and the government to ensure the signs of order management geotech and tailings meet the high criteria we set ourselves. It is a tropical setting, and so it is not something to be rushed. This measured approach has us completing the pre-feasibility study in September. It is highly prospective and we see more to come than just the Waisoi deposit we're working at the moment. And in future presentations, we will detail the outcomes of that finding.

Over to you, Greg.

Thanks, Ron. Thanks, Gerard. Just turning to the final slide on page 27, looking at the focus areas. I emphasize this during the quarterly presentation. It's a simple representation of the value chain of the business and then looking at the priorities of each of those areas.

And as you can see an exploration we've had an active half. We're going to have a more active half in the second half financial year. We're still holding that we'll spend around A$165 million on exploration, expect about 50% of that to go into drilling. So, in the second half there is going to be a lot of drill results. And it'll be a good mixture of Brownfield and Greenfield activity and clearly we're stepping up a little bit of the Greenfield activity as we start to look at the Wafi Transfer Zone and we start really looking at the air core drilling we are doing in West Africa, which has commenced.

In the studies area, Ron has been through that, no surprise, the big focus really for us is Wafi-Golpu and Namosi. We didn't talk about O'Callaghans today but that also is ticking away in the background. And they're all on very similar timelines of delivery.

On the projects side again, Cadia East and MOPU number one and two priorities in the company for delivery this calendar year. And then in operations, I've given you a little bit of a hint towards the technology focus we're now taking, why we're sitting ourselves up to get back to the basics, total material movement, metal recoveries, maintenance, people training, and skills. These are the areas that we're really spending an enormous amount of time on in the operational space.

So with that, I'd like to finish all our formal remarks and now very happy to take questions.

First question comes from Geoff Breen from Royal Bank of Canada. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Greg. Can you hear me?

Hello, Geoff.

Yeah. The Golpu guidance, what tonnage is that please?

So it's about 30 million tonnes when it's ramped up full capacity.

Right.

So it's a bit – Cadia East is running that 26 million, hopefully we'll run that higher in the future. We're talking that as one of our growth opportunities but Golpu is in around the same range.

Okay. The chart on dividends, what's that little black dot or is it only on my chart for the – in the second half?

Yeah, Geoff. That's the statutory profit for this half. So we didn't plot it down because it would look like profit was going down but we're at the halfway mark of the year, where the other lines are annual profits.

That's fine. And just on CapEx; can you give us some guidance on cash spend for the two projects in the periods ahead?

The guidance isn't going to change, Geoff, for the year. So we did that guidance back in August and total CapEx for the year will be that amount and then we looked at CapEx in that presentation also for Cadia East and other projects for the years ahead, we're not changing those guidance levels.

Okay. One just easy last one. That sensitivity what period is that for?

FY 2012.

Whole year?

Yes.

As if the first half hasn't happened, you mean?

No, no, no, sorry, no it is assuming a full-year sensitivity rather than the half year's happened and this is the sensitivity for the rest of the half.

That's fine. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah, thanks. Can I start with tax and tax payments, so the tax payments for the period just completed, I assume that's Gosowong and something else. So what is the something else and how do we estimate it? And then secondly on the remaining tax losses, how does that trend towards the full tax payment, please.

I'll take it. The other tax payment is the Lihir payment. So Lihir is paying cash tax and Gosowong is paying full tax. The Australian operations are still sheltered and the shelter should be absorbed predominately by the end of the financial year and next year we'll start paying Australian tax and we'll start getting franking credits.

Okay. And then what happened to PNG in terms of the capital allowances with MOPU in terms of its tax over the next couple of years?

So we will continue to pay tax on Lihir. I don't have the breakdown with me to give you the exact numbers, but I think we can get back to you on that one later.

Great, thank you. Then secondly, the undrawn facility, what is it cost to you to hold that? So how do we estimate that in terms of ongoing finance cost?

It's – in general, if we looked at all the finance cost associated with it, it's about 75 basis points. And I'm spitting that of Mike – I'm taking that off of the top my head, so if that's wrong, I'll get the guys to talk to you, but it's roughly that 75 basis points.

Thank you. And moving onto some less financial stuff. The ramp up of Cadia East and MOPU, when – do you know when you'll declare them commercial, so is that basically end of 2012 that you regard it as commercial or is that yet to be defined?

We're defining that now and I'll definitely be talking about that more as we go forward. At the moment, if you were using – as accurate as you want a run your models, December – end of December for the MOPU project and let's say end of October for Cadia East.

Thank you.

If we change that I'll come back and talk.

Okay thank you. And then one last one if I may please, the FY17 aspirational production target, how do you project that when you've not yet done a feasibility? Does that assume the lower cave or the upper cave? Is there upside and downside to that projection depending on where that cave is? And then the guidance you gave, does the guidance range reflect uncertainty about scale, does that reflect uncertainty of that grade because of not knowing where you'll start?

The original guidance reflected the higher cave. So when we did the original one, it was prior to getting to some of the deeper intersections from the last eight months, nine months of drilling.

Okay.

So we – in prefeasibility, what we are doing is looking at that original horizon versus taking the cave deeper to higher grades. So with it comes like all these things, this range about caving directions, how deep should the cave be, where do you want to start it. I think we are leaning towards moving this cave deeper.

So, deeper meaning higher production and a later start date potentially?

Potentially.

Great, thank you.

[Operator Instructions] . Next question comes from Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. Operational questions, I wanted to focus on Cadia Valley East and the unit mining costs. First one was the hard material that was referenced in the – is that going to be consistent through the life of mine, would we expect a fairly uniform per unit mining cost and what magnitude it might be? And then to touch on that technology implementation aspiration, the preconditioning of the cave and how that might improve the unit costs going forward?

So, we are putting the HPGRs in to deal with the harder rock. It's at depth and the rock gets harder as you go deeper and particularly in Cadia East. Our aspiration on the unit cost in the block cave still sits at A$5 a ton. And the consistency of the ore body means that we would see that cost through the life of that operation. Subject to we do have improvement processes in the sideline looking to do better than that. But the way we've set the project up is around that A$5 a ton. The way we've set up dealing with the – certainly the harder rock is to put the HPGRs in, still got the balls and the SAG mills, et cetera, and that's the way we've dealt with it.

Okay, that's great. Thank you.

The next question comes from Ian Preston from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Great. Firstly congratulations, that is a good result whichever way you cut it. I have two quick questions. One is, what should we be looking to capitalize in terms of the exploration in the second half?

50% I think is the number. Again if you look at the amount of drilling we're doing around existing ore bodies and projects, I think a fair estimate would be again around that 50%.

And the second one just on the dividend, at the end of the year, you would be paying an increased dividend if profits continue to improve and also looking at another special dividend in terms of maintaining a 15% debt to debt plus equity, is that correct?

We're always in a policy setting dependent on price and the performance of the business versus the capital needs; we will always assess growing the base dividend and the capacity to pay the special.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Sam Berridge from Royal Bank of Scotland. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good day, Greg. I mean this is – so you have, sort of, almost answered this dividend policy for Ian. But sort of in a roundabout way, some of your peers have gone to gold price linked dividends, and it seems to be sort of catching on across the majors in the industry. I mean would you – something like that ever be appropriate for Newcrest considering your growth profile or you can't see your policy changing over the next sort of five years or so?

Yeah, now it's a good question and has had a lot of noise offshore with the link – direct linkage to the gold price. Ours is linked to the gold price, I should make that very clear, because when the gold price is very strong, what we want to do as we showed last year was increase the base dividend on a conservative basis going forward. And if the gold price really is spiking, we'll pay the special dividends. And so we're not doing the clinical connection that others have done, which we think is taking the judgment call out of it, but we're balancing where the growth of the company is, where the gold price is going and our capacity to pay and reward shareholders.

And there was a very strong hint last financial year when we paid the increased base and the special, and you've seen in the half year we've increased the base again. We're pretty bullish on gold prices. Our expectation is again we'll be looking hard at that payment at the full year.

All right. Thanks. That's it.

The next question comes from Mitch Ryan from Macquarie. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Just got a question around Namosi and sort of the timings for that. You've obviously had to slow down the PFS. Do you think that – two questions; one, do you think that there is likely to be ongoing delays if you are to bring that into production? And if so, you've already slowed down the PFS do you maintain your CapEx guidance, the five-year one that you've provided in August?

I think the answer to the question is we're ready in a technical sense to go faster. We know what we need to do and go. But, the community and government discussion needs to progress in a very wholesome full way to ensure that the community and the government are fully aware of the environmental set up that we're going to put in place.

So that's a bad answer to the question of saying it'll take as much time as is necessary and at the moment it's slower, and we will take that time with both those groups to make sure we get it right. And if that means the project gets delayed a little bit then so be it, which means the CapEx for that Namosi unit would be pushed out.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks.

The next question comes from Levi Spry from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Hi there, Greg. Just a question around the growth pipeline; so there's three other projects on there that we still haven't gone through. I know they are much smaller, but can you give us an update on Hidden Valley expansion, Bonikro, and O'Callaghans where they are at and what we can expect over the next 12 or so months?

I'm going to hand it to Mr. Ron Douglas.

Thank you. The three others and I'll do them in reverse; Bonikro has completed a detailed PFS and we've moved into feasibility study. Part of the permitting for that requires us to do a more complete environmental impact assessment. And so we're essentially in a measured approach with Bonikro as well. Once again, the technical solution is clear and the way forward is relatively straight forward. It is working with our communities and environment that we are addressing.

The Hidden Valley work also reached a completion phase. However, we then had the overlaying conveyor issues and so rather than confuse that area, we let it settle, and we're back to looking at a feasibility study on Hidden Valley now.

Yeah. And in the Hidden Valley when we did the update on the forecast in August, we actually took the production profile for Hidden Valley down in that five-year profile. It used to be higher in the – I think two years before the last time we talked about the five-year profile. So Hidden Valley is more about incremental improvement and Bonikro really is about the plant expansion and it's a pretty simple plant. I mean once we get the community and government in shape, we'll move forward.

Okay. Thanks, guys. And just one other question on Wafi-Golpu numbers you put out, that CapEx number just confirming that's to take you to 30 million tones.

It is. I mean that's – I mean, there is ongoing as in with Cadia East drawpoint and drawbell development annually after that. And so if you looked at the Cadia East profile, so you can see it, but it's basically building the infrastructure, the plant, the infrastructure highway into the mine and the lifts to cope with the 30 million production profile.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Jo Battershill from UBS Equities. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, Greg. Let's take a quick question with regards to the Cadia East ramp up. You're suggesting first commercial production end of October. Can you give us a feel for what the tonnage ramp-up will be from end of June through to first commercial production and from there on?

I can't do that off the top of my head, but the answer is for next year the Cadia production that we sort of showed back in August should be roughly right. So that's a mixture of production, which is coming from Ridgeway, the scavenge we are doing in the pit and the ramp-up of Cadia East. And again I just don't have the month by month ramp-up phase for it, but we can certainly come back to that. We might come back to that next quarter and talk more about it.

Okay. Can you tell us what the tonnes are in that number for next year?

I don't have it off the top of my head, guys.

Okay.

At this time there are no further questions. I'd now like to pass the call back to Mr. Greg Robinson.

Great. Okay. Well, thanks everyone for attending the call. Appreciate the questions and if you have anything further on a more detailed basis, Kim and Steve are ready to sort of talk to people. So with that thanks very much and we look forward to talking to you at the quarter. Thank you.