Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — Chief Financial Officer & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Steuart McIntyre — Analyst, Blue Ocean Equities Pty Ltd.
Stefan Hansen — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd.
Hayden Bairstow — Analyst, Macquarie Securities (Australia) Ltd.
Paul Hissey — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.
Craig T. Sainsbury — Analyst, Goldman Sachs (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Cathy Moises — Analyst, Evans & Partners Pty Ltd.
Andrew Knuckey — Analyst, Commonwealth Bank
Brett McKay — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG (Australia)
Lyndon Fagan — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Australia Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Newcrest Mining 2016 Half-Year Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this call is being recorded today Monday, February 15, 2016.

I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. Please go ahead, Mr. Maitland.

Thank you, Roland. Good morning and welcome. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. Both will be speaking today on Newcrest's half-year financial results for the six months ended 31 December, 2015.

First, please note the company's disclaimers on the first two slides of our presentation. These relate to forward-looking statements, ore reserves, and resource reporting, and the competent person's statement and the use of non-IFRS financial information referred to in the presentation. As you may already be aware, Newcrest has moved to the U.S. dollar reporting and all dollar references made in this presentation refer to U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thanks, Chris, and good morning. I'm calling you from Indonesia, and I understand there may be some delays on the telephone line. So I ask you to please stay with me and I apologize upfront if there are any issues. Before I get into the results, let me just update you on the rescue efforts of Pak Mursalim Sahman. The first slide shows you the areas impacted at Kencana, and where Pak Mursalim is currently trapped.

On slide five, you see the – that is the approximate time of 8:30 PM last Monday locally. There was a geotech event at Kencana, which triggered the evacuation of the mine. Pak Mursalim was trapped in an area and was unable to exit. We made contact with Pak Mursalim the following day with our first priority being to establish life support drill holes to the area to ensure fresh air, water, food and communication with Pak Mursalim.

The first of these holes were established last Wednesday early in the morning. It always had access to light and air conditioning through the path to these drilling rigs. There's a medical team on site who are monitoring its physical and mental wellbeing. Last Friday, we commenced drilling on a 70-centimeter wide bore-hole which yesterday broke through to the chamber that Pak Mursalim's in. Work is now underway to line the hole so we can safely bring him to the surface. His family is on site and we're keeping them updated and providing support.

Having them close and being able to talk to them has been really important to Pak Mursalim and it's helping to keep his spirits up. There's still a lot of work to do to get him out safely. We have expert advisors on site and we've also access to others who have led similar underground rescue efforts around the world. The cause of the incident will be the subject of a full and thorough investigation. Our mining and processing operations remain suspended

Now, turning to our half-year results. Today, Gerard and I will take you through our financial results for the last six months, provide a review of our operations and update you on the progress of projects and studies at some of our key assets. I will also discuss the actions we're taking to address and improve our companywide safety performance. The three projects which we'll cover today are the Lihir Pit Optimization prefeasibility study which has confirmed the potential to significantly reduce our future capital expenditure, the updates for the Golpu Stage One Feasibility and Stage Two Prefeasibility Study and developments at Cadia where [ph] level one of (04:13) work being undertaken to increase processing capacity to 32 million tonnes per annum. Our focus remains on safely increasing our free cash flow and profitable growth.

On safety, the two fatalities during the six months is tragic and simply unacceptable to me and all of us at Newcrest. To help us focus our efforts in the right areas, we conducted a thorough review with support from external specialist groups. The review has resulted in us consolidating our focus on three key programs; NewSafe, critical controls management and process safety.

Last year, I discussed our safety cultural transformation program, NewSafe. It's focused on safety leadership and are hoping the workforce to identify the most important safety behaviors in their area and formulate their own plan to enable and motivate these behaviors. NewSafe is creating that culture within Newcrest, which is absolutely focused and targeted towards eliminating fatalities and life-changing injury.

The second area of focus is on critical controls management. This is about identifying the highest risk tasks we undertake and in ensuring we have the critical controls in place before those tasks are undertaken. Critical control management involve setting a robust and easier-to-do system as well that enables all our people to confirm we have the right critical controls in place and that they're working. We have engaged with others who are leaders in this area in the industry to help us learn the best way to embed effective critical control management at all levels of the organization. We're now rolling out this system across SI.

Finally, process safety is about having a systematic and comprehensive framework for managing the integrity and containment of high energy and toxic processes, like the chemical and petroleum industries do. The framework is first being implemented at Lihir, with a focus on the water claims, oxygen systems, and open pit mine geotechnical risks. It will then be rolled out to all sites.

By focusing on these three areas; culture, critical controls, and process safety, we believe we will go a long way towards improving our safety performance and realizing our vision for a workplace free of fatalities and life-changing injuries.

Turning to our operational and financial results. In summary, I am pleased with the strong operational performance, particularly from Lihir. Cadia's performance in December was also pleasing, and that has showed a strong recovery in the main SAG mill outage.

Newcrest's four areas for the half have continued to be safety, operational discipline, cash generation and profitable growth, all underpinned by a culture of accountability and personal ownership. Our statutory and underlying profits were significantly impacted by lower gold, copper and silver prices. The group achieved $254 million of free cash flow for the half. This free cash flow was applied to reducing net debt by $235 million.

Gold production was up half-on-half by 6% to 1.2 million ounces. Notably, this increase was driven by Lihir's performance, which I will discuss in more detail shortly. The all-in sustaining costs improved 5% to $770 per ounce off the back of increased production, lower operating currencies against the U.S. dollar, and improvement initiatives in cost reductions realized from the Edge program. The board has determined not to declare an interim dividend.

Improved performance at Lihir is a clear demonstration of the Edge program at work. 12 months ago, Lihir had an all-in sustaining cost of $1,239 per ounce. The target we set to team was to achieve a sustainable 12 million tonne per annum grinding throughput rate by the end of December 2015. Besides team not only achieved the target, but exceeded it. This increase in volume was a key driver of the all-in sustaining cost falling by 28% for the half to $890 per ounce. There remain many challenges at Lihir to be addressed, but I'm now comfortable setting the target at a sustainable 13 million tonne per annum grinding throughput rate by the end of December 2016.

I would note that during the December quarter, we had access to high grade ore in the pit, and so we utilized that grade. Going forward, I would expect for the upcoming March and June quarters, we'll be tending back to around 3.3 grams per tonne from the pit. We will continue to source half the material from the pit and half from the stockpile, the stockpile grade likely to be around 2.4 grams per tonne.

You've heard me say many times that one of the key priorities for improving Lihir is improving the reliability of plant and equipment. The key to achieving this is to improve maintenance outcome. Our goal is to improve the quality of maintenance, to improve the oversight and job scheduling to ensure maintenance work is planned, completed on time, and to a high standard. This will reduce the amount of rework and downtime associated with plant and equipment failure.

One example of the improvement we've made today is shown in the graph on the right-hand of the slide. Utilization of the grinding circuit has risen from 75% in January 2014 to just short of 85% in December 2015, a great improvement, but still well below the utilization rate that we regularly achieve at Cadia and Telfer and, therefore, a measure of the potential for further improvement at Lihir.

As you may be aware, PNG is currently experiencing one of the worst El Niño droughts in decades, resulting in containment and closure of mines across the country. We're fortunate that Lihir is not being as severely impacted as other areas of the country.

You can see the graph on the left, the blue bar show the average rainfall per month, from 2010 to 2014, compared to the orange line which depicts what we achieved in 2015. July, August and October last year were significantly down on the historical average rainfall for those months. But we have seen rain return in November and December to more standard levels. Water availability will rise and fall in line with rainfall, but we're working on actively reducing water requirements to minimize the impact on production.

At Cadia, gold and copper production were down 10% and 21% respectively compared to the first half of financial year 2015. 7% more material was mined during the current half as Cadia East continued its ramp up as milled material was down 11%. As the plant processing capacity was clearly restricted by the five-week outage associated with the repair of motor of the Concentrator 1 SAG mill.

All-in sustaining cost for the half was up marginally to $246 per ounce as a result of the reduced mill throughput, however, this is still an attractive unit cost performance which was achieved on lower volumes and with a lower byproduct credit as a result of [ph] launched upfront. (11:57)

As announced in the last quarterly report, the Ridgeway block cave will go into care and maintenance on the 3rd of March 2016, with production from Cadia East to become the sole feed source for the plant. The cost to maintain Ridgeway in care and maintenance is minimal at around $2 million per year. We're expecting further growth in Cadia production from the continued ramp up of PC 1 and PC 2.

The interaction between these two caves is currently progressing to plan and we continue to monitor it closely. A new conveyor will be constructed to transport ore from Cadia East directly to the Ridgeway concentrator. This would be conducted over the next two years at a cost of around $35 million. In the interim, material will be trucked to the Ridgeway concentrator. We have commenced the prefeasibility study on the optimal pathway to expand processing capacity to 32 million tonnes per annum, in line with our permitted capacity, and I'll discuss that in more detail later.

I'm pleased to say that following the repairs, the mill is operating at full capacity; however, the motor will eventually require a full rewind or replacement in the future. Since the incident, we've installed a bypass conveyor that will reduce the impact of any future downtime. This bypass will take material around the SAG mill directly to the ball mill.

Moving to Telfer, last November we announced that Macmahon had won the contract to manage Telfer's open pit mining and mobile equipment maintenance. This contract commenced last week. In terms of performance, gold and copper production were down 11% and 27% respectively compared to the first half of the 2015 financial year. The [indiscernible] (13:50) on processing low grade stockpiles [indiscernible] (13:50) issues in the main ramp to the open pit and limited underground production. The increased cost in processing lower grade material resulted in Telfer's all-in sustaining cost rising 26% to $955 per ounce.

Finally, on Telfer, I'm pleased to announce that in early December 2015, the Indigenous Land Use Agreement was signed between the Western Desert Lands Aboriginal Corporation, which represents the Martu, and Newcrest. This agreement formalizes all current arrangements and provide certainty to all parties.

Moving to our other operations briefly, at Bonikro, favorable grade from the new Hiré pit has resulted in strong gold production for the first half. The Bonikro pit was placed on care and maintenance during the half.

Gosowong's higher gold production compared to the first half of 2015 is primarily the result of the higher gold grade from Toguraci ore. Work has commenced on expanding the tailings dam to ensure it can safely accommodate projected future productions.

I know some of you on this call would like to know how the current suspension of mining activity will impact production of Gosowong this year. It's just too early in the process to provide any such update. The management is solely focused on rescuing Pak Mursalim. In due course, we'll update the market when we're able to and when appropriate to do so.

Ore stockpiles have been processed and the mill will remain suspended until its deemed safe to restart mining [indiscernible] (15:23). This is likely to first commence in the separate Toguraci underground mine which provides approximately one-third of Gosowong's gold production.

At Hidden Valley, the joint venture partners have reviewed cutback options and have decided there would be no further cutbacks this time unless there is a significant and sustained turnaround in metal prices. Our priorities for Hidden Valley is to ensure safe production while maintaining a cash flow neutral or better position. With our joint ventures partners' harmony, we're exploring all strategic options with respect to that asset.

I'll now hand over to Gerard who'll take you through the financial results

Thank you, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. Let me start with the key highlights for the half year from a profitability, cash flow and LNG perspective. I won't read out all the items that are covered on this slide, but I wanted to draw your attention to our free cash flow which we have used to reduce our net debt by $235 million. This is consistent with our stated strategy of prioritizing free cash flow to reduction of debt which has seen our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio for the last 12 months decrease to 2.1 times.

The free cash flow was driven by maintaining our strong all-in sustaining cost margin even in a declining gold price environment and was assisted in the half by the divestment of our remaining shareholding in Evolution Mining.

At an average realized gold price of $1,113 per ounce in the half, all sites other than Hidden Valley achieved a positive all-in sustaining cost margin. Cadia continue to be the strongest performer in margin terms. There was a commendably stronger performance by Lihir which delivered $223 per ounce of positive margin that significantly contributed to the performance of the group. EBITDA, EBIT, and all-in sustaining cost margins all decreased in the half at the low gold price.

The significant decrease in the EBIT margin period-on-period was further impacted by higher depreciation costs at Telfer due to the write-back of previous impairments: at Cadia, as Ridgeway approached being placed on care and maintenance; and at Lihir and Bonikro due to increased volumes.

Group underlying profit for the half has decreased and this graph clearly demonstrates the drivers of that. The main driver of the period-on-period change in underlying EBIT was the fall in gold and copper prices, which resulted in a $222 million negative impact. This metal price impact was significantly but not entirely offset by the foreign exchange benefit from our major operating currencies being the Australian dollar, the Papua New Guinea kina, and the Indonesian rupiah, all weakening against the U.S. dollar. The impact of the increasing gold production from Lihir and Bonikro was offset by a decrease in copper production from Telfer and Cadia. I've already touched on the period-on-period increase in depreciation, driven by high depreciation at Telfer, Cadia, Lihir and Bonikro.

On to slide 21, free cash flow of $254 million for the half was a strong result given lower gold and copper prices. All sites except Hidden Valley contributed to this positive free cash flow. The bottom chart shows that investing cash flow consisting of production stripping, sustaining capital and major projects was lower in this half by $66 million, largely due to lower production stripping at Lihir and lower capital expenditure at Cadia East. Operating cash flow was down $114 million, primarily due to lower gold and copper prices, partially offset by lower exchange rates and energy prices. We also received $88 million in cash this half from the sale of our remaining interest in Evolution.

From this free cash flow, we were able to reduce net debt by $235 million. The key points I want to make on this slide are that over the next three financial years, we only have $100 million of debt scheduled to be repaid. More than 70% of the drawn debt is in the form of long-dated fixed coupon corporate bonds. And at 31 December 2015, we had $2.5 billion in undrawn committed bank debt facilities.

Newcrest remains in its target range for its credit rating and liquidity coverage metrics. And as you can see from this slide is progressing towards its target on leverage and gearing ratios. I'm particularly pleased with the reduction in the leverage ratio from 2.6 times 12 months ago to 2.1 times for the 12 months to 31 December 2015. You can see that we are making progress on reducing our gearing, which well is 28.1% at 31 December, 2015.

The Newcrest board has determined that having regard to the company's target financial metrics, there will be no dividend for the six months ended 31 December 2015. The board looks forward to resume dividend payments when it is prudent to do so.

Lastly and, it is not covered on the slide, I wanted to highlight that we have today provided U.S. dollar guidance for financial year 2016 on cost, capital and depreciation. This guidance reflects conversion to U.S. dollar reporting, actual performance to-date, updated commodity price and exchange rate assumptions for the remainder of the financial year and expected performance for the second half of the financial year.

Details of this U.S. dollar cost, capital and depreciation guidance can be found on slide 43 of this presentation.

I'll now hand back to Sandeep who will take you through the remainder of the presentation.

Thanks, Gerard, and I'd like to now take you through the future of Newcrest's three assets which each have over 30 years of mine life, and I'd see this as one of the distinguishing features of Newcrest as a gold funding.

Firstly, Lihir; the change in operating strategy which we discussed extensively last year helped us to pass our target of 12 million tonnes per annum grinding throughout run rate by last December. We're now looking towards our next target of a sustainable 13 million tonnes per annum grinding rate, throughput rate, by the end of December 2016. These improvements will be driven through a steady pipeline of [indiscernible] (22:04) projects focused on increasing availability and throughput rate. This will be achieved by continuing to focus on better maintenance and de-bottlenecking projects with limited additional CapEx which were essential must-have assured payback period.

The change in operating strategy was based on the commercial application of a better understanding of the underlying mineralogy. This resulted in a greater focus on increasing throughput that is not an increased gold production and cash generation, but has also helped enable an improved range of options for developing the pit. We've now completed the PFS that examined optimization of the mine plans and seepage barrier options and are progressing the feasibility stage.

I'm pleased to say that the results with best balances, cash flow, capital efficiency and risk mitigation, is the lateral development of the pit. Some of the key drivers mainly is future potential, our improved engagement with the community, improved maintenance practices, Edge improvement project focused on operational, cost and capital efficiency, and engagement with our people.

The original 2013 prefeasibility study was formulated under the old operating strategy when sulfur was thought to be the main constraint on what could be processed. The industry is high in sulfur and therefore was not preferred process feed. So the next most attractive ore source was the second open pit down in Kapit. The new operating strategy has largely removed sulfur as a constraint which now [indiscernible] (23:38) more economically attractive and, therefore, will now laterally develop the pit from Lienetz to Kapit rather than down into Kapit directly.

This defers the [ph] data we require as (23:51) seepage barrier to around FY 2025. This additional time [ph] has meant we can issue (23:58) a lot of capital expenditure option of filling in the Inner Harbour with impermeable play material that we're going to move anyway compacting this material to engineer into a seepage barrier and then constructing a relatively low cost near shore cut-off wall which will act as an additional seepage barrier.

This next slide shows we've been able to reduce costs compared to the earlier PFS study. Overall, the construction of a near shore cut-off wall compared to a coffer dam shows a potential reduction in capital costs of just over $1 billion. The latest study found that approximately $215 million of capital expenditure will be mainly required from financial year 2023 onwards. These findings are subject to further feasibility work which will refine the plan. But as you'd expect, this future capital is subject to further board approval.

This next slide is an update on what we shared with you in August. It shows the proposed mine plan on which the prefeasibility study was based [indiscernible] (25:08) prefeasibility study level of accuracy and subject to all the assumptions that are contained in the study. Hopefully the release of this indicative profile should give our shareholders a clear picture on the future possibilities for the significant asset.

Building strong ties with the local human community is vital for an operation that benefits both shareholders and local stakeholders. Newcrest led by Craig Jetson as the General Manager of Lihir has been actively increasing the dialog with local landowners and landowner groups in order to increase transparency and mutual understanding. This has included individual meetings with senior elders and group meetings. As examples of tangible benefits for landholders and residents of the New Ireland Province, Newcrest is progressing infrastructure projects under the tax credit scheme, which has included construction of the Lihir Secondary School and sewer upgrade work.

The age philosophy in a lot of gold price environment has driven the team in Lihir to test the market on major contracts. Lihirian companies has in the last nine months worked with Newcrest to lower cost and had won four significant contracts in competition against international parties. The Lihirian companies were required to and were able to compete on safety, quality, price and innovation in order to win these contracts.

The last four months has included significant focus on defining the strategy to realize value from Wafi-Golpu. Today, we released an update on the Stage One Feasibility and Stage Two Prefeasibility study. This is an important step to the development of the project and continues to demonstrate that the Golpu porphyry is a world-class copper gold resource. It is large scale, high grade and long life with sustainably low operating cost and embedded upside option.

As planned, we've completed sufficient work to support our future investment in [indiscernible] (27:12) will enable us to get a drill rig underground to conduct more drilling to increase [indiscernible] (27:19) These declines will be about two kilometers in length and [indiscernible] (27:26) will be a significant investment. Before we approached the board for an investment decision, we need to finalize the pre-mine development agreement with the PNG government. We're in discussions with the government, but the timing of this agreement is difficult to determine.

I'd also like to make it clear that the NPV for Stage One of approximately $1.1 million does not include the time between now and when a PMDA is finalized, rather it represents the unleveraged project value in a 100% terms as if the project commences now.

Let's walk through the development timeline once the PMDA is signed and following approval by the boards of both joint venture parties for the decline investment. First are the earthworks for access decline would commence. The work will consist of constructing necessary infrastructure to support the decline development. Once the declines are complete, we'll conduct further drilling of the ore body, which will provide us the raw data we require to further optimize the design of the block cave and associated infrastructure.

As expected, a completed final feasibility study is still a few years away, but we'll continue to update the market with major milestones [indiscernible] (28:41). We envisage first ore to be produced approximately 60 months after commencement of the earthworks with production from the second block cave to commence approximately two years thereafter.

Moving to Cadia, work has just commenced on a new prefeasibility study to identify the optimal pathway to extend the plant to 32 million tonnes per annum. All viable options are being explored. A key criteria of any proposed expansion is to ensure that we retain the option to readily expand beyond 32 million tonnes per annum in the future.

Over the last year, the exploration team has restocked our exploration portfolio with several opportunities that leverage our existing operational footprint and technical strength. The options [indiscernible] (29:31) agreement entered into over the last 12 months cover exploration of areas in Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia, Côte d'Ivoire and Nicaragua. They are all relatively small investments which provide us with an early low cost entry point into highly prospective gold and copper opportunity.

Today, we also believe [indiscernible] (29:55). Gold reserves decreased by approximately 6 million ounces, driven by depletion of approximately 3 million ounces and adjustments at Telfer, Bonikro, Hidden Valley, Golpu and Cadia East. I will refer you to the ore reserves in an all resources statement we released today for detailed information.

So in summary, over the last six months, we've been able to improve our all-in sustaining cost of $770 per ounce; we've continued to repay substantial amounts of debt even in a lower copper gold price environment; we have delivered on plans to develop our key assets; and we continue to progress Golpu, a world class gold asset. My key areas of the focus will continue to be safety, operational disciplines, cash generation and profitable growth, all underpinned by culture of accountability and personal ownership.

With that, I'll now hand back to the operator who will open the line to your questions. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our first question from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Thank you. I've got several questions, but I'd like to start with Lihir if I may please. And with respect to your guidance for Lihir over that 15-year period, can you talk a little bit about what average grade is going to stockpile? What average recovery we should be assuming and that recovery has been down significantly compared to the recovery that was projected historically and that hasn't been updated. And then, how you'd have us model the cost material movements in that we don't really know what the cost of waste versus expiate tonnes, versus to and from stockpile is, and that ratio changes with time. So how you'd have us think about what that average material movement cost should be over time, please?

Well, thanks for the question Michael. I'm not sure I'd be able to provide all that data to you just now. I think we've released the data that we want to at this point. And as we have increased our reporting in our quarterlies and half year around Lihir, around material cost and what have you, I think you'll get a better idea of how things unfold over time. But what I will say is in comment to your recoveries, yes, they have reduced over the last six months. There's a lot of work going on metallurgically and with our Côte d'Ivoire project to get that recovery back [indiscernible] (32:38). That's our objective.

Okay, thank you. I'll try another one on Lihir if I may then. The indicative guidance, the upper end for the longer term, the 15 million tonnes, if I reference that chart, I think it was page 10 of what you achieve in terms of utilization at Telfer and Cadia. If you achieve that at Lihir, it doesn't quite get you to 15 million tonnes, it seems to get you some 14 million tonnes. So is there some additional plant equipment that you foresee to get to that 15 million tonnes? And if so, when and what sort of capital?

Look, I think the way to look at, I've said many, many times in the past is there's two real components as far as milling capacity, I mean, obviously all aspects of Lihir have to come together, not just availability and utilization, it's also about throughput rate. So it's those in combination in the full context of Lihir that will drive that beyond its current 12 million tonnes to 13 million tonnes and as we're showing potentially beyond that.

Meaning, no more capital equipment required, it's just stuff that you can do with what you've got, you don't need to – you don't need [indiscernible] (33:53)?

Well, as I said earlier, we are planning minor de-bottlenecking projects which will require capital, but we don't expect that to be of a extremely large magnitude.

Okay. Thank you, that's clear. With respect to your guidance for Cadia East and I think the wording was that Panel Cave 1 and Panel Cave 2 interaction is going as per plan. So your guidance range is broad for that, particularly for the second half. If you achieve, if it continues to perform as per plan, does that give you the upper end of guidance?

Guidance is the guidance, I think we'll be in a much better picture after the current quarter that we're in to have a closer look at what we might finish up with at the end of the year. So right now the range is the range.

Okay, thanks. And then, one last one with respect to Golpu, the PFS was clearly a lot more detailed than the DFS which is not currently helpful to us. But in terms of the free cash flow from the project, I think you talked about repaying the capital over 10 years. Is that what you expect to see for a free cash perspective, or does the cash that comes out of Stage One simply go back into Stage Two? And if that's the case, when does the project actually start to return real cash?

Well, I mean the payback continue, but remember this is a fairly slow burn project to start off with too, Michael. So that does extend the timeframe somewhat. But I think in terms of when did this start generating maximum cash flows, it's clearly at the high tonnage rate. But the first project in itself, Stage One, does stand on its own now.

Stage One is effectively the bank for Stage Two, so presumably some time during the life of Stage Two is actually when it starts to return real cash?

Yeah, it does. It's a higher grade kept at the top that we pay the lot of the initial infrastructure investment and what have you. And then as you go into the next stage, underground is obviously – a lot of the predevelopment's done [indiscernible] (36:11) deeper and then you've got infrastructure layout which you can build on. So that's broadly correct, yeah.

Okay. Thanks, Sandeep.

We will now take our next question from Steuart McIntyre of Blue Ocean Equities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Yeah, look, I've just couple of questions about Cadia if I may. Obviously, based on production in the half just gone, you're going to need a strong second half to meet guidance. And it sounds like the plan is depressive, so as additional stockpiles that were generated when the plant was down. Can you confirm the size of those excess stockpiles in terms of tonnes and grade just to give us a bit more confidence that you're able to keep the plant full in the second half?

Look, I just don't have those numbers off the top of my head. But just remember when you take Ridgeway offline, both Cadia mines do have higher grade, Cadia PC 1 and PC 2. And that will also help them improve their production in the second half.

Okay. Well, maybe coming at it a slightly different way, can you confirm the current plant throughput rate obviously was down and then it's back up and running. What is the annualized current throughput rate at Cadia Valley? Is it 26 million tonnes per annum or is – where's it sitting?

Well, in December – I think this is – and, Gerard, correct me if I'm wrong, I think it's in one of these, nicely put out, it was around 24 million tonnes per annum or so and we're ramping the concentrator which is never run at designed capacity because we haven't had the ore in the past, is around 27 million tonnes per annum.

Yeah.

And as I've said in the PFS, we're looking at how do we best get it to 32 million tonnes per annum.

Okay. I mean, that's I guess the basis to the question because it's never really operated at nameplate, just sort of came down the step. But the 24 million tonnes per annum and you're pushing it towards that nameplate?

Yeah, that's right. I mean, there's no reason to suggest it won't get to its nameplate, but I'm just flagging that we haven't actually proven that because we haven't had the ore, but I think there's no reason to believe it won't.

Yeah, absolutely. And, look, finally on dividends. You've obviously put out the gearing target of sub-25%. Should we assume Newcrest potentially restarts dividends once you get below that gearing threshold? Is that one of the key considerations for restarting dividends?

Look, I think the gearing ratios, the leverage, are important factors. They're not the only things that are considered. It's a general economic outlook, how our sites are performing and the board's judgment in the end. So there are all things of high importance and consideration, but I wouldn't say that any one of them is a kind of locked in stone in terms of determining the right and prudent time to commence dividend at some level.

Okay. Thanks, Sandeep.

We will now take our next question from Stefan Hansen of Morgan Stanley.

Morning, everyone, just one on Cadia as well. Obviously, the SAG mill 1 is back up and running at full capacity, but just wondering what your engineers are saying in terms of, I guess, longevity until it needs to be shut down for repair?

That's right now, obviously, still under consideration. We are talking to the original manufacturers and other technical experts. But I think there's two things, one is to determine when it's going to change, and the other is be prepared for it. So I think the focus right now is about ensuring that the right repair and almost a replacement pathway and timelines and manufacturing is organized. When that change is actually made is secondary to that.

All right then. And at Lihir, Sandeep, you mentioned earlier that it's going to – you're aiming at a 50-50 ex-pit stockpile split. Is that how we should be thinking about the mill feed going forward? I previously understood it to be a little bit more on the stockpile, but 50-50 is how we should think about it?

And I think you find that's the case as we go. If you look in that table, with the table in the Lihir release, that blocks these things out in five years and that actually finalize out for you, the sort of trend. This is very broad terms of plant feed, the actual stockpile tonnes are fed and ex-pit tonnes are fed. So that's – the answer to your question's probably in there. And it will vary over time and we were two-thirds earlier last year, and then, yeah, from time-to-time it will change around. But between 50% and 70% is the guess, but it will be in these numbers.

Fair enough then. And on Wafi, I mean I'm assuming that your CapEx budget for this year doesn't have anything for the decline because you're waiting for those permits. Do you have any idea on how long that might take, whether it might be a first-half FY 2017 event?

Look, it's very hard to give timing. And now that we've done the study, what I will say is that subject to board approval, we're ready to go. It really depends on when we can get that green light from the government so that we can take it to our respected boards.

Fair enough. And one final question on the Wafi feasibility study. Are the gold price assumptions that you're using there the same as the updated reserve?

I think the joint venture uses a slide. Gerard, can you answer that for me please?

No – Sandeep, they're the same.

Same as the new reserve? Not the...

Yes, they are. [indiscernible]

(42:32)

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

We will now take our next question from Hayden Bairstow of Macquarie.

Yeah. Thanks, guys. Just a couple for me. Just quickly on Golpu, just whether you sort of stress-tested lower copper prices and what that actually means for the returns and the reserves? And also just on Bonikro without that pushback on [indiscernible] (42:59) where that project now sits in your overall thinking? It's obviously getting smaller as you sort of seem to unwind it a little bit. Is there still plans to expand operationally in West Africa? Or is it sort of moving more of an exploration type play?

Look, I think if we take that one first, I think this – see, operationally, the extent of the Bonikro operation would depend on the exploration we're doing in near mine. So this is not only of the new Hiré pit, but around Hiré [indiscernible] (43:31) want to look into Hiré East and what we call Hiré West. But broadly, the main reason we remain there is the regional exploration strategy and it's been hopefully a subsequent discovery that's commercially worth developing. That's the reason we're there.

And, on Golpu, do you want take that one Gerard, in relation to sensitivities and what have you?

Sure. Hayden, we use the numbers that are in the reserves and resources for the Golpu analysis today. We haven't had to make a large CapEx decision yet. So certainly, internally, we do stress-test the project for a range of economic assumptions including copper price, gold price, exchange rates, and the like. You'll note from slide 33 in the deck that there is a very long timetable for getting Stage One into production, and to that end the economic assumptions that we have to kind of do our stress-tests on those that are that far out. So, in short, we do take a number of things into account when we stress-test the investment decision having regard to what we expect will be in the long-term.

Okay, great. And so the 15% IRR, is that sort of a minimum hurdle we're looking at, or is it lower than that sort of minimal hurdle rate?

That's just the IRR that comes out of the project. That's different from any investment decision we have yet to make.

Okay, thanks.

We will now take our next question from Paul Hissey of RBC.

Hi, guys. Three questions from me. The first one just on Hidden Valley, you mentioned that you would need prices to be sustained before you would consider, I guess, recommitting or going to additional rounds of cut-backs, et cetera. Can you just tell us whether or not prices where they are today would meet you sort of definition of being high? So if prices stay where they are now, do you think that your decisions around Hidden Valley would be different?

Well, that's all going to be, as I said, we're looking at our strategic review of Hidden Valley, and that's one of the things that will be looked at for sure, is at what price would you commit more to it and would you lock some of it in or not and all those other considerations that one would look at. But it's – we are working [indiscernible] (46:00) it hasn't performed well in the past and it's time to crystalize some more – something more definite around its future.

Okay. Secondly, there's obviously been a few questions on Golpu. So far seems like you're pretty comfortable with the economics internally and there's a big hurdle now to overcome, if you like, with the government agreement. Can I just clarify, is this the point at which the government has to determine whether they wish to take up some or all of their stake. And until such time as the government or you get across that predevelopment planning approval, what's the kind of spend on Golpu?

The option for the government to buy is restricted by the actual mining lease which...

So that's some ways away? Yeah, okay.

Yeah, it's some ways away. So the whole purpose of a pre-mine development agreement is given the scale of the investment to hit down in through the declines and what have you, it's prudent to lock in some fiscal stability in some of the other parameters that one would want some confidence around before making such an investment.

Okay. So if let's just assume for a second that might take 12 months, what do you think your burn rate would be on that project in that 12-month period while you're waiting in effect?

Good question. It's not a lot. I just don't have the number of the top of my head. And the main reason is because we haven't really mobilized and we're not doing a lot more work at the moment although I think we are going to do a little bit more drilling, but I don't – have we got a number in the guidance on that, Gerard?

Yes, Paul, we do. It's around $30 million for the remainder of this half year and then more broadly the order of magnitude of CapEx on a multi-year basis is not that different to what we said a few years ago in relation to it. But ultimately, the precision around that depends on when we get the PMDA and we can be more definitive around that once we have that.

Okay. That's a good segue. I was just going to ask about the guidance. You provided annualized guidance for four years in December 2014 and, conversely, if we were to assume you had the predevelopment approval today, do you think those four year – that explicit guidance, I think it was $630 million for your share, that would still be an appropriate kind of ballpark given the completion of the studies that have happened since then?

No material difference to that, Paul.

Okay, great. And quickly, look, perhaps slightly more, not longwinded, but strategic question. You've spoken to a 60 months lead time to first production on Golpu. Obviously, you haven't pulled the trigger yet. So we're looking at maybe 2021 or beyond before that's likely to add any production to Newcrest profile. There's a slide in the presentation outlining some of your sort of grassroots and very early-stage developments projects. What are your thoughts on the in between, because I guess from my perspective it's likely that some of the assets you've got today won't still be ticking along in 2021. And so I would think that you guys are sort of not battling, but there's probably a gap in production that you need some new projects to offset the natural decline and then on top of that to sort of continue growing the business. And I guess that flows into the dividend discussion as well. So there's probably no answer, but how are you thinking about sort of a five-year view because, from my perspective, I think you need some more gold production from somewhere?

Yeah. I think if you look at – so thanks for the question, but if you – the way we think about things, it's about the margin that we're interested in. So we'll never chase gold ounces just for ounces, it's all about the margin. And this is where building in our existing basis of Lihir and Cadia, those two particularly, I think is really a huge area of focus for us. I mean, we've talked a bit about Golpu. It's near mine exploration around Gosowong as well, a discovery we know we're very quick to develop mines in Indonesia and what have you. We've flagged. We're restocking our early phased growth portfolios. So I think – and we are continually assessing opportunities, but we're never going to chase ounces for ounces sake, so I just want to make sure that's pretty – it's about margin.

Yeah. Just – well, thanks for the answer. I think that just probably, there is a distinction to be made between some of the global company you have now and from my perspective, I just wonder whether you'd be comfortable to see Newcrest become a 1.2 million ounce producer and fall in amongst some of the – what we categorize as sort of tier 2 producers. But anyway, look, I appreciate the response to the questions. Thanks.

We'll now take our next question from Craig Sainsbury of Goldman Sachs.

Thanks Good morning, Sandeep. Well, just a question for – I think you guys have done a pretty good job in terms of operational transformation since you've come in to the company, improving production rates, improving outlook for Lihir, et cetera. You mentioned yourself there's a challenge within the company around health and safety and performance hasn't been that great in the last couple of years. I'm just wondering if you can talk us through way you mentioned the pull-through in the transformational change around production, what is it you're looking at to do around the health and safety issue?

Well, look, on the cultural side, it is definitely the NewSafe program which we started last year which is actually getting very good traction where we are implementing. And I think from the cultural aspect that is something that we expect big things from, given the early success we've had. Process safety is something that we're drawing from the chemical world which is really around big energy release type events, whether that'd be geotech or processing base. So that is very more – very much more engineering solution type focus. And in the middle, we've borrowed from what some of the leading mining companies are now adopting which is the critical controls management philosophy. Remember, we started off with Escondido some five years, six years ago, which is proving to be very successful where it'd been implemented and we are now in the process of implementing that. So it is a huge area of focus. It is a performance that's unacceptable and we are putting a lot of time and effort on focus. These the three areas that we've seen directed under.

Great, thanks.

We will now take our next from Cathy Moises of Evans & Partners.

Yeah. I've just got quick questions. Looking at your previous guidance, say, in Aussie dollars, it looks like your depreciation and amortization has increased by about A$40 million or A$50 million if I use a 0.7 exchange rate. Wondering if we just should to do that at the group line or whether it's a specific operation where that has changed markedly or just been impacted by the U.S. dollar? And the other question is with the long-term guidance on Lihir, is there additional sustaining capital on top of the capital estimate you've given us? And, if so, can we have a guesstimate on what that is?

Gerard, why don't you take the depreciation question?

Yeah. Cathy, you're right that order of magnitude on translation is about A$35 million higher. And it is just due to outperformance, particularly at Lihir and Bonikro. And so it's volume driven and also as Cadia is – sorry, as Ridgeway comes to a close, that's also lifted it.

Okay.

So in terms of Lihir, we do issue guidance yearly as you know around CapEx and what have you, but if you look at the material movements, you'll see that there are pre-strips to do and various other usual mining activities, but that do come in lump wise manners depending on the profile. But in terms of sustaining capital for the processing plants and what have you other than the de-bottlenecking projects that we've flagged that we may have to do, there shouldn't it be any massive change from where we are today.

Okay. Thank you.

We will take our next question from Andrew Knuckey of Commonwealth Bank.

Yeah. Good morning, Sandeep. Three questions with regards to Golpu, please. Firstly, the mine predevelopment agreement, I mean this was spoken about with your December 2014 releases, obviously, being a key driver in terms of confirming the fiscal regime. Can you just speak to the timing around that? What's been the delay in being able to lock this down and what do you anticipate going forward?

Secondly, and related to that, given the absence of that, still how confident are you around the assumptions made in the feasibility study that those assumptions won't change dramatically with regards to some of the fiscal assumptions made?

And then, thirdly, the IRR of 15%, given perhaps some of the risks of operating a deep block cave difficult operating environment and so forth, how comfortable are you that that IRR of 15% prevent sufficient return given that risk environment?

So if you take the – I have to try to remember what the first question was, but the PMDA, yes, we have been talking about it for a while with now the fact that we have finished the feasibility and what have you, which is now at least something that we're waiting on as opposed to running in parallel. The government is heavily focused on getting it through their various systems and we're helping along the way. But I'm not in a position to judge when they'll be able to ratify that agreement. That still remains work in progress.

In relation to the uncertainty of that and what it means to costs and what have you, look, for the next couple of years, I don't see any issues, particularly as we're in declining cost environment. So I don't anticipate that that's going to be a major problem.

And what was the third one?

Just with regards to the nominal or the IRR of 15% that's been advertised, how comfortable are you, if you like, with some of the assumptions made in the feasibility study around risks around deep block cave operating in that environment, that 15% is a sufficient return for the business?

Look, I think the way to think about that 15% is, first of all, it's unoptimized. So we haven't been underground and done the full drill out, where we can really optimize the shape, size and the logistics going around the cave itself. And the other one is because of our knowledge of block caving we know where to apply the right amount of contingency for whatever unknowns that still remain until we can get underground. That's a risk weight at 15% in other words.

Sure, okay. So in a nutshell, you're comfortable with...

So, yes, I'm comfortable with it and so we get underground and...

Okay. Thank you.

We will now take our next question from Brett McKay of Deutsche Bank.

Morning, guys, just a couple on Lihir. Seems that total material movements need to ramp up causing [indiscernible] (58:41) over the next six months to at least get to your 2017 targets. Can you just explain how you get from the 42 million tonnes of annualized TMM last half up to that sort of 65,000 tonne – sorry 65 million tonne target over the next five years? Just outline what the truck fleet additions are and what's available on site versus the increased utilization, et cetera?

Yeah, I mean that's a very detailed question, we'll have to get back to you, but we do have a spare equipment on site. I mean, as you'd know, we've come from higher rates to lower rates as we went to the stockpile strategy, and now we are going back more into the pit and we'll move into the pre-strip and what have you. And it's a combination of equipment we have and also contract. We do contract part of their mining as you would also know. But I can't comment on specific equipment change profiles over the next five years, it's certainly not off the top of my head.

Can you tell me if the equipment that you stood down when you transition to the stockpile strategy, is still on site and available?

Some is, some isn't.

All righty. Rough percentage terms of what spot remains, or it is half-and-half or thereabouts, do you know?

I think we'll have to take that one on notice. Chris?

Yeah, okay, yeah sure.

Just made it on review.

And just sort of following up on that, just wondering about the sort of mining or capitalized life through each of the stages and how we should be thinking about it? Do we assume that each of those stages has its own, if you like, a sort of five-year life of mine strip ratio so that we can calculate what the deferred mining or the capitalized mining amount is? Or do you think about more on a long-term life of mine basis?

I'll take that one if you like.

On the long-term – sorry, Gerard, go ahead.

Yeah. On underground, Brett, but we capitalize the each phase by phase and then we amortize those costs in line with accounting standards over the life of that phase. So it's – yes, there is one big pit, but we do capitalize on a by-phase basis, and then release that to the P&L and our indications to you are done through the guidance annually.

Yeah, okay. That's clear. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question from Lyndon Fagan of JPMorgan.

Thanks, guys. I'm also trying to understand the cost profile at Lihir. Just if I look at slide 29 with the four stages, in stage two the upper end of your material movement ranges 74 million tonnes over those sort of five years. I'm just trying to – at a high level, can you perhaps give us an outline of how we should be thinking about the cost profile of Lihir today and how it looks under those sort of stage one, two, and three. I'd assume stage two, the costs go up a fair bit, but I mean how much of the cost base is fixed versus variable, any sort of color on that would be great.

Sorry, was that you Gerard?

No, I was just going – over to you or me, I'm happy to take it.

Sure, go ahead.

Lyndon, what you see in page 29 is a very indicative estimate of material movement over a period of time. On an annual basis, we will be able to indicate what – through our guidance numbers, what the cost will be. I mean, the cost profile of Lihir is subject to many things. And on a material movement basis, it depends on what activity we're doing, where it is in the pit, how much is at one end pioneering and at the other end just extraction of all proximity to conveyer belts and so forth. So it's kind of – there are a lot of things at work. Secondly, we have exchange rate variability and you can see there in the deck today we've provided our exposure to exchange rates at a group level. And then there are oil prices which will cost as it relates to material movement, also, on a period-by-period basis. So I'd just direct you to what we've achieved to-date, what we guide, and then to the commentary made in the slides more generally that we continue to focus on optimizing our cost outlook here through the Edge program and we've achieved some success to-date.

Thanks.

We will now take our last question from Steuart McIntyre of Blue Ocean Equities.

Hi, guys. Apologies, I overlooked a question. Look, just looking at this potential expansion at Cadia Valley, obviously it's a good 20% increase in throughput for your largest, highest margin mine. So undoubtedly the best growth project in the portfolio, I would suggest. Obviously, you're doing a PFS on that at present due mid-year, so you're not probably able to give us any sort of guidance on the capital required for that project, but if you can talk a little bit about physically what's required? So obviously there's a 20 million tonne per annum plant there plus another 6 million tonne per annum plant, so 26 million tonnes per annum odd. You could see pushing that to 27 million tonnes per annum pretty easily. So you need another 5 million tonnes per annum somehow. Are you planning to build a new plant? What's the strategy there? Just keen to understand physically what the plan is so we can sort of try and wrap some numbers around it?

So up to 32 million tonnes per annum, I think clearly we will need some more sort of grinding capacity and what have you. But I think if we start back at the mine, what we're seeing is that we are getting part throughputs than thought, particularly through the fixed plan which is the questioning the equipment underground and what have you. So that gives us the confidence that whatever CapEx we do need to spend is more around the processing plan and not underground. So that's the first point I'd make.

Second one is, it is more sort of de de-bottlenecking with the Orchid and the Krypton edition as opposed to a separate concentrated stream or something like that. We did lodge an application for the increase in license which had some CapEx estimates which you have to make. That is not the subject of a study and what have you. But for memory, that pointed to ballpark CapEx of under 150 million tonnes per annum, for example, and it's – so that it's in those sort of – that sort of range and it may even have listed some equipment which we may or may need to add. But as said, the biggest gear we would need is probably some form of grinding type capacity of some sort.

Okay, look, that's very helpful, and because I understand you've got three underground crushes in 9 million tonnes a piece, one in PC 1 and PC 2. And you know I think you've alluded to historically you've actually – PC 1 certainly pushed over 10 million tonnes per annum, so you can sort of say you can get to at least conceptually 30 million tonnes out of the underground. How would you – you can push it a little bit harder and get to 32 million tonnes per annum on the same basis do you think?

Yeah, that's what we believe. Yeah, we'll be getting breakage in the cave than we originally anticipated and when we did the original design at Cadia. So we are getting very good growth. So the crushers is the best way to put it.

What's the record crushing throughput in the quarter, for the first crusher in PC 1? I mean, it's obviously going to be the leading indicator here?

Let me ask. I couldn't give you the exact number, but I mean...

Over 10 million tonnes per annum?

Something like 11 million tonnes per annum, or 11 million tonnes per annum plus is not out of the question.

Okay.

So I think you say comfort in the fact that we believe that CapEx is required above ground and not underground.

Okay. Fantastic. Thanks, guys.

So that'll be the end of the call. Thank you for everyone for dialing in. And I think we'll close it up for now. Thank you.