Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Sophie Spartalis — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Half Year Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed by a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, Friday, the 16th of February, 2018.

I'd now like to hand the conference over to our first speaker today, Mr. Chris Maitland. Thank you. Please go ahead.

Good morning and welcome to the Newcrest Mining December 2017 half year results conference call. I advise this conference call is being recorded today, Friday, February 16, 2018. This is Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. [Operator Instructions]

First, please note the company disclaimers on the first slide of our presentation. This relates to our forward-looking statements, the use of non-IFRS financial information in the presentation and reliance on third party information. As you may already be aware, Newcrest is a U.S. dollar reporting entity and all dollar references made in this presentation refer to U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, Gerard and I will take you through our financials results for the last six months, more specifically, our focus on the progress we've made with regards to safety and sustainability, then, I'll talk about our half year highlights, followed by a review of the performance of our operations during the half year. Gerald will then discuss our financial results in more detail. I'll then provide an overview of what we are aspiring to achieve over the next three years through our new five pillars that we believe will drive Newcrest forward. Finally, I'll summarize what we believe are the reasons why investors choose to invest in Newcrest and highlight what makes us unique within the gold industry.

So firstly, a few comments on safety and sustainability. Newcrest had an excellent half in terms of safety. One measurable outcome of this is a continued improvement in our group TRIFR measure, down to 2.6 per million man hours for the half. This is 28% lower than the corresponding period last year. We are continuing our relentless focus on our Safety Transformation program, which comprises of NewSafe, Critical Control Management and Process Safety.

Although we've come a long way, we're going to continue to focus on further improving safety performance in this company. The next generation of the NewSafe program called NewSafe Leading Safely has been developed and piloted. This will take our safety mindset and behaviors to the next level. The reason we do all this work around safety is to ensure everyone working at Newcrest goes home safely. We have had around 2 1/2 years without a fatality, and this remains our overarching goal, a company free of fatalities and life-changing injuries.

On sustainability matters other than safety, we continuously look for ways to improve our relations with local communities and their impact on the environment. To this end, we've completed baseline audits at all sites against a newly updated HSE Management Systems Standard, which will provide the basis for defining action plans to further improve our processes, relationships and sustainability outcomes.

Yesterday, we released our 2017 Sustainability Report, which highlights our commitment to and achievements in operating sustainably. We've built a strong sustainability foundation, and I see our admission into the International Council on Mining & Metals as testament to that strength. We have committed to improving our performance and that of the industry as a whole, against the ICMM's sustainable development principles in the years to come.

Our Sustainability Report focuses on the issues most material to Newcrest and our stakeholders. It's broadly themed around our people, economic performance, social performance and environmental stewardship. I'd like to point out a few highlights in the Sustainability Report. The report shows our commitment to developing and maintaining strong relationships with our host communities. One way we achieve this is through significant target investments and payments in social performance programs that share the benefits of mining. We work closely with governments, communities, civil society organizations and other stakeholders to ensure that Newcrest's sustainability objectives and programs are aligned with local priorities and expectations.

The Sustainability Report also outlines Newcrest's commitment to achieving excellence in environmental performance in accordance with Newcrest Environmental Policy. I encourage you all to take a look at our Sustainability Report. We're working tirelessly in this area, and we believe it's central to our pursuit to be the Miner of Choice.

Now, let's turn to our operational and financial highlights for the half year. We produced 1.14 million ounces of gold at an all-in sustaining cost of $860 per ounce. We remain well on track to achieve our production guidance for FY 2018, noting that we expect the second half production performance to be stronger than the first half due to fewer planned shutdowns at Lihir and the continued ramp-up of Cadia, post the seismic event in April.

Our operations generated $134 million in free cash flow, enabling a further reduction in net debt. And in line with our dividend policy, today, we've announced a fully franked interim dividend of $0.075 per share.

Turning to our performance of our operations, I'll quickly touch on the key takeaways for the group, and then each of our operations from the last six months. For the group, the lower production and higher all-in sustaining cost per ounce, compared to the prior period, largely reflects the impact of the progressive ramp-up of ore production at Cadia over the half and, to a lesser extent, higher stripping costs at Lihir.

We remain on track to achieve our annual guidance, with production expected to be stronger in the second half of the year and AISC spend potentially being below the guidance range, if copper prices remain around current levels.

At Cadia, remediation work after the seismic event in April 2017 has been completed and the mine is continuing its progressive ore production ramp-up. Cadia's all-in sustaining cost per ounce was lower in the half year, principally due to a high copper price, partially offset by the cost of the remediation work and restart activities, as well as a higher electricity cost and the stronger Australian dollar. With remediation work completed, we're expecting a substantially improved second half of the year for Cadia and continue to target the processing plant to be operating at an annualized 30 million tonnes per year by June 2018.

At Lihir, we achieved a 13 million tonne per rate annualized mill throughput rate this half. In our recent quarterly report, we announced a new 15 million tonne per annum sustainable annualized mill throughput target for Lihir, which we're aiming to achieve by the end of June 2019. We expect to reach the 14 million tonne per annum sustainable annualized mill throughput rate target early in the current calendar year.

Lihir's all-in sustaining cost per ounce for the half was higher than the prior period, reflecting the lower grade and recovery rates, as well as planned increases in stripping for Phase 14, as well as increased sustaining capital expenditure. As previously announced, we expect to see an improved production performance from Lihir in the second half of this financial year, mainly due to fewer planned shutdowns.

Telfer's production in the half was 32% higher than the previous half and broadly in line with the corresponding prior period, with high milling volumes being largely offset by lower head grades. The all-in sustaining cost per ounce at Telfer was much improved compared to the previous half, but still higher than the first half of FY 2017. Telfer's all-in sustaining cost reflects an increased production stripping and sustaining capital expenditure, a planned ramp-up of West Dome Stage 3, and an unfavorable exchange rate impact on our costs; all of which were only partially offset by the higher realized copper price.

Gosowong's first half was impacted by substantially lower head grades, which is more than offset by increased milling throughput to produce more gold in the half than the prior period.

Finally, Bonikro, as you'd be aware, Newcrest announced on 13th December, 2017 that we had agreed to divest Bonikro. The economic effective date for the transaction will be the 1st of October, 2017, with all financial benefits beyond this date being to the benefit of the acquirer. From a production and cost perspective, the operation performed particularly well in the half.

I'll now pass over to Gerard who will outline Newcrest financial results for the half.

Thank you, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. Achievements for the half year included being on track to achieve production costs and capital expenditure guidance for the full year, achieving an all-in sustaining cost of $860 per ounce, generating $134 million in free cash flow, and this is the eighth consecutive half of positive free cash flow generated by Newcrest. We have reduced our net debt by further $63 million in the six months, and this financial performance has resulted in Newcrest being well within all four of our target financial metrics. I'll touch on that in more detail shortly.

Finally and in regard to Newcrest performance, balance sheet strength and outlook, the board is determined to pay an interim dividend of $0.075 per share, in line with our dividend policy.

Both statutory and underlying profit were lower in the period when compared to the prior period. Newcrest underlying profits for the six months to December 2017 of $116 million was $157 million lower in the corresponding prior period. This was driven by lower gold and copper sales volume predominantly due to the effects of the seismic event at Cadia, as Cadia's ore production was progressively ramped up over the half. This volume effect on revenue was only partially offset by higher realized copper and gold prices in the half, particularly copper prices, which were 31% higher in the period.

The stronger Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar in the period had a negative impact, accounting for almost half the increase in OpEx. The balance of the increase in operating costs reflects higher mill tonnes at Gosowong, Lihir and Telfer, and higher electricity costs at Cadia compared to the corresponding prior period.

Income tax expense was lower in the period, in line with lower profit, at an effective tax rate on an underlying profit of 29%. Two significant items were recorded in the period. Firstly, a $12 million write-down of noncurrent assets at Bonikro, following the divestment announcement in December, and a $6 million write-down of tax assets at Gosowong, following an adverse verdict in the Indonesian Tax Court in respect of an FY 2013 tax rate dispute. Importantly, both of these write-downs were noncash in item.

On to cash flow, and you'll see our free cash flow on the half of $134 million, was lower than the prior year period. The largest driver of this change was the change in operating cash flow. And though it was strong, at $453 million for the half, it was $148 million lower in the period, primarily as a result of lower gold and copper sales volumes from Cadia and Lihir. On the graph, you can see a callout box showing the composition of the decrease in operating cash flow. The predominant driver is that reduced sales volume, having a $169 million negative impact, which is only partially offset by the higher realized copper and gold prices.

Back to the main graph, showing the free cash flow for the half, this $134 million of free cash flow was achieved after funding further increases in production stripping at Lihir and Telfer. Major capital project expenditures, which are focused on increasing the productive capacity of each of Cadia and Lihir, will be at low levels than in the prior period, together with funding the Wafi-Golpu study. And we also funded an increase in exploration activity, representing our continued focus on greenfield exploration as well as resource definition drilling at Telfer and Gosowong. Though we invested an additional $9 million in SolGold Plc in the half, this was lower than the last period's $23 million investment, and the prior half also had the $27 million cash outflow associated with divestment of Hidden Valley.

As I mentioned earlier, this is the eighth consecutive half in which Newcrest has delivered a positive free cash flow. This has resulted in us being well within our financial policy metrics. Our leverage ratio marginally increased to 1.2 times, from 1.1 times, due to lower EBITDA for the reasons I've mentioned. However, it still remains comfortably below our target of less than 2 times.

Our gearing ratio decreased from 16.6% at June 30, 2017 to 15.9%, reflecting the build-up of cash over the period. Considering that gearing was 34% at June 30, 2014, you can see that the Newcrest balance sheet is substantially stronger. Our cash build-up increased our liquidity coverage to $2.6 billion, $2 billion of which comprises committed undrawn bank facilities. Finally, we continue to retain our investment-grade credit rating.

I'll now hand back to Sandeep who will talk about our new five pillars that underpin our 2020 aspirations.

Thanks, Gerard. The last few years have been quite transformational for Newcrest, with the improvement in our safety performance, the turnaround of Lihir, the improvements achieved across all our operations, the portfolio simplification, the generation of new growth options, and the generation of substantial cash flow that has significantly strengthened our balance sheet. There's a lot to be really proud.

But towards the end of last year, we invested some thinking about how to take things forward from here. Our vision remains to be the Miner of Choice for our people, shareholders, host communities, partners and suppliers. And we updated our aspirations for the future and they are indeed aspirational in our roadmap for forging a stronger Newcrest.

What I'll do today is give you a broad outline of the five pillars and the outcomes we're aspiring to achieve for each pillar by the end of calendar year 2020. Safety has always been a paramount focus of our company. Our safety transformation, as previously mentioned, is in full swing and has permeated throughout the company.

The safety and sustainability pillar introduces the fact that in addition to the importance of keeping our people safe, we are strengthening our commitment to pursue outcomes and other elements of sustainability, such as health, environment and social performance. By 2020, our aspiration is to have had zero fatalities and to achieve an industry-leading TRIFR.

Our people are our second pillar. There's no doubt that this pillar is going to be the key enabler of us going beyond what we're achieving today to realize the full potential of our business. Our goal is to have capable and engaged people delivering superior returns from their efforts. We measure our performance in this area through an organizational health survey indexed against the global benchmark. Our aspiration by 2020 is to have first quartile organizational health.

Operating performance will always be central to what Newcrest is and how it delivers value to shareholders. Hence, it is rightfully highlighted as a pillar of Newcrest going forward, underscoring the importance of not only operating discipline, but also safe results. By 2020, we aspire for the group to have a first quartile all-in sustaining cost per ounce.

We've now also specified technology and innovation as a pillar. The work that we're doing in processing and mining is building a technology and innovation capability that is distinctive and has the potential to be a key driver of value and growth for the company in the future. Looking back, we apply the new operating strategy at Lihir that helped transform the flexibility, profitability and cash flow generation of that business. Further back, we pioneered large-scale block caving in the gold industry. Going forward, we're aspiring to deliver five breakthrough successes by 2020.

The fifth and final pillar is profitable growth, which is not a new theme for Newcrest. This pillar articulates how we'll grow the value of this company. You've seen over recent years that we've broadened the geographies in which we're searching for new orebodies and investing more in early-stage growth options. By 2020, we aspire to have exposure to five tier 1 orebodies, either as operations, development projects, or equity investments.

By focusing on these five pillars and setting aspirational targets for the next three years, I believe that we'll transform the company from where it is today. In the nearer term, we have several key milestones we're focused on delivering. By end of March 2018, we expect to release the Golpu Feasibility Study Update which will give further details on the value and pathway for this multi-decade tier 1 asset.

The Cadia East Mine Prefeasibility Study and the Cadia Plant Expansion Prefeasibility Study are expected to be delivered in August 2018. This will define for us the optimal mining and plant capacity needed for Cadia. By the end of June 2018, we expect Cadia to achieve a 30 million tonne per annum annualized production rate with minimal capital expenditure. This will be a remarkable achievement in itself, up from the previous rates of below 26 million tonnes per annum.

Finally, we expect Lihir to achieve its 15 million tones per annum sustainable annualized mill throughput rate by the end of June 2019. Again, quite a lift from the 10 million tonne per annum rate as that plateaued out in 2014.

So in closing, I'll talk a little about what our investors want from us and how we're going about delivering on this. We believe that Newcrest has six key competitive advantages in the gold industry. A unique long reserve position; three of our assets, Cadia, Lihir and Golpu, each have the potential for around 30 years of operation. We have a lot of gold; 62 million ounces of ore reserves.

Our low-cost production, because having a lot of gold won't create value unless you can achieve strong margins from its extraction. This half year we achieved an AISC margin of $435 per ounce. We're focused on our operating assets to get to their full potential to drive that AISC down to first quartile.

We aim to do what we say. This is best measured by maintaining or exceeding group production guidance for fours years in a row. We've also had a good history of achieving the aspirational milling right targets for Lihir.

We do have organic growth options at our two largest existing sites, Cadia and Lihir, and in Golpu, another long-life asset in the pipeline. Organic growth is the best form of growth, as you already own it and know it well, which reduces the risk of expansion and development.

And finally, the strength of our technical and exploration teams, which provides us the capability to potentially find the next tier 1 orebody and the capability to maximize the potential of new and future assets.

So, finally, we're focused on remaining financially robust so that we can remain in the position of strength to generate superior returns for our shareholders through the cycle. This is exemplified by our strong leverage ratio of 1.2 times, our low gearing ratio of 15.9%, and our commitment to delivering a return to our shareholders through our dividend policy. Combined, these elements make Newcrest a unique offering in the gold industry.

So with that, I'll pass back to Chris who'll ask the questions that have been submitted online and I encourage you to submit more for the remainder of the call.

Thank you, Sandeep. We have a few questions that have been submitted. The first is from Matt Hocking at JPMorgan. What's Newcrest definition of a tier 1 orebody and how do you account for jurisdictional risk in that definition?

For tier 1 orebody, the first thing is it's got to have long life. So we target 15 years plus from a tier 1 orebody. Annual production, north of 300,000 to 400,000 ounces per year, is typically what we're looking for. And in terms of cost, it has to be low, so that either has to be in the first quartile or towards the bottom of the second quartile. And on the jurisdiction itself, I mean, we do have no-go areas where we want to look at it and where we'll look at things. We look at things on a risk-adjusted basis to determine whether we invest or develop or not.

Another one from Matt. In relation to the exposure to five tier 1 orebodies comment, does Newcrest consider [ph] 14.5% (22:47) equity interest efficient exposure to count as one of the five?

Well, this question is obviously in relation to SolGold which, at the moment, I don't think is a tier 1 orebody, but it certainly has the potential one day to be developed into a tier 1 orebody against the criteria that we have. But we're happy with our exposure with SolGold. We're very interested in supporting them anyway we can. But for a tier 1 orebody, we would want a greater exposure than 14.5%.

Matt has also asked on Golpu. The feasibility study includes the deep sea tailings placement options. How much of the $2.6 billion CapEx in 2016 was related to the terrestrial tailings?

Yeah. So, these two types of tailings have different CapEx profiles. So for the terrestrial tailings, we had an upfront CapEx of $250-odd million. But the life of mine CapEx was closer to $1.2 billion. The DSTP, on the other hand, is expected to have more upfront capital, but over the life of mine, we'd expect the total cost to be significantly lower.

Okay. On Golpu again, any updates to the study require amendment to the SML application, that comment? Does that reset the approvals process or can a timeline remain intact?

Look, changes to the application, we've taken this into account into our planning process. We've been communicating very transparently with the authorities. So, we don't expect this to be a reset at all.

Excellent. And again, from Matt, Cadia East Mine Prefeasibility Study was originally due in March quarter 2017 prior to the seismic event. The release date is now 15 months later. Has there been any scope changes?

Look, first, to clarify, March 2017 date was for the release of the Cadia East Plant Expansion Study PFS – not the mining, PFS. We have delayed the release of the plant expansion PFS to coincide with the mine expansion PFS in order to incorporate the learnings from the seismic event from last year. These are things like where we play our critical infrastructure and other items in relation to the fault lines and now-enhanced geotechnical analysis.

A question from Trent Allen from Citi. Even with organic growth, output could be less than 2 million ounces from the three mines in FY 2021, for example, Cadia East grade to declining Gosowong life of mine is ending prior to Golpu coming online. Is that a strategic concern?

Look, it's not a strategic concern. We have our plans in order to take Lihir, obviously, the 15 million tonnes by the middle of next year. We also have outlined that we are looking at options to take it to 17 million tonnes. We'll release the Cadia study, as I said, in August. The most important thing for us is to have a robust and profitable business and that's more important to me than just the headline ounces produced.

Okay. And an anonymous question here, in recent years, Newcrest is focused on free cash flow on deleveraging, with no debt maturity until FY 2022. Can you remind us of your medium term priorities for using cash?

Look, our priorities will always towards our existing businesses, making sure they have the sustaining and growth capital they need, allocate capital for development projects that enhance the shareholder value of the business, subject to all the financial hurdles and approvals, and obviously, returning back to our shareholders through our new dividend policy which we released last year.

Okay. One from Paul Hissey at RBC, you briefly addressed it earlier but what can you do to get Telfer back into a cash flow positive position?

Well, look, we have started a new stripping campaign, so yeah, that's what's resulted in the high all-in sustaining cost and the impact on the cash flow. But Telfer remains work in progress. It's always going to be a relatively marginal mine, but we have a new General Manager there. We have new focus on the open pit mining contract, in particular, and also, applying our Edge program underground, and a number of enhancements in the milling circuit, which is already seeing increased milling rates as a result. So, it remains work in progress but we're determined to make it a successful business.

Okay. What's holding up the proceeds for the Bonikro sale? What needs to be done with the Akissi-So pit and when do you actually believe it will be – the money be received?

Well, I think the money was expected to be – the deal is expected to be close by the end of March. We're still waiting for the finals sign-off from the government.

Gerard, maybe...

Correct, yeah. No, so the Akissi-So pit permit, which we mentioned in December, is a condition pertaining to the receipt of some of the proceeds that has been satisfied now, and as Sandeep said, it's just the remaining terms of the contract is the real approval on the like that remain. But we remain confident that we will get that and we expect about to close it by the end of March.

Another question online – another question has come through for you. What do you believe is an adequate level of debt gearing for the company?

Well, I'll give my opinion, and then we'll see what the CFO says. Look, we have our metrics, as you see, a leverage ratio of less than 2 and obviously the gearing less than 25%. I don't think there's an actual single point number for any of these. You've got to go within the range. So in the non-investment cycle, I would want to be well down within the range. So when we start the investment cycle, we don't pop out at the other end of the range. So there's no particular point that we target. It really depends on the phase of your investment cycle.

Good answer, Sandeep. No, that's exactly what we like. We like a strong balance sheet through the cycle. And you'll see that we have now satisfied our minimum cash holding of $0.5 billion, so you can expect that we will continue to hold cash. The maturities of our bonds don't come for another few years. And you can expect that we, absent the refinancing, would continue to hold more cash in anticipation of that. But with the benefit of a strong balance sheet, is being able to fund the business growth aspirations over time. But at this point in time, we are very comfortable with that gearing level as its stands.

I had a question from Hayden Bairstow from Macquarie. Can you run through potential outcomes at Gosowong in the next two years; mine closure, cost to exit, potential cash inflow from mines you've changed under Contract of Work?

Well, that's a good question. Look, in terms of Gosowong, well, in the immediate, obviously, we continue to talk constructively with the government on resolving any concerns around the CoW with the RKAB. We expect that to conclude satisfactorily. Then, it's more about making sure that we have finished the exploration we need to do on the Contract of Work lease and, at that point, determine which is the hard bit on the mine life on Gosowong. As you know, Gosowong has a history of finding almost the amount of ore or the amount of ounces it produces every year in extensional exploration. But, realistically, that must come to an end one day, so we'll be taking a view of these matters in the course of the next 6 to 12 months.

Okay. Another question from Paul Hissey at RBC, an accounting question. Why are we continuing to accrue production stats from Bonikro when the [indiscernible] (31:05) benefits from the asset, I think, attributed to the new owners? That one's for Gerard.

Yeah. Paul, simple question is we haven't completed the sale yet and it's only when we have achieved that sale can, under the accounting standards now, we affect the transfer.

Okay. And another one, why did you elect to retain exploration exposure in West Africa? If you found something, would you seriously go back there to build a new project?

Absolutely, without a doubt. I mean, we're very keen on West Africa. If you find something there, the ability to get in there, start producing from shallow open pits and bring production online is one of the quickest places in the world where you can do that because of the shallow nature of the orebody. So there's no link between disposal of Bonikro and our view on exploration prospectivity at West Africa.

I think that's all the questions we received so far by Slido. I might just quickly turn to the operator and see if there are any online. [Operator Instructions]

But our first question comes from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please ask your question.

Yeah. Thanks very much. I've got three or four. First of all, with respect to Cadia, thanks for that revised 15-year profile. Can you give us some indication on what recovery profile you expect from Cadia that corresponds to that indicative 15-year growth profile? And an extension to that, what's the expected impact from the Moly mine circuit on recovery? Does that improve or otherwise recovery and what does it do for concentrate quality? Is there is there a second leg to that place?

So in terms of the Cadia recovery, I expect it to be within that 78% to 82% range as the mineralogy within the balance of the orebody fluctuates. It'd be interesting to see what the hydro flow at the back end and the tail section does once we commission that in June. We're hoping that gives us a little bit of an uplift.

In terms of Moly, I don't think we're going to see a change in recovery so much as the concentrate quality will improve, which is very good for our customers. That's the main driver, although it does give us a good kicker on all-in sustaining cost as a result of the by-product credit.

Yeah. So the concentrate quality, do you get better terms as a result of that or is that just a freebie for your customers?

I think, I mean, look, first of all, it's good for our customers, but we do get slightly better terms and conditions around this.

Great. Thank you. With respect to the Lihir resource reduction, was any of that resource that's been modeled out actually kept it within the production plan? And does have any medium term, longer term strip ratio implications?

Now look, this was from resource and in the lowest category, which is in third resource, it was – said there's been no change in reserve. So, this is stuff that would have been mined in like 30-odd years' time. So, I think we've got better definition now on our inferred resource, as a result, but it's not something that is going to impact our production schedule as we plan that life of mine.

Thank you. And finally, with respect to Telfer, when you consider reinvestment in Telfer, to what extent is that driven by for the alternative being trying to try to exit the site? And I'm interested specifically in your current view of what the exit cost would be from Telfer if you had to precipitously shutdown because it didn't deliver the margins or returns that you needed to see from it?

Oh, look, I mean, we absolutely committed to get Telfer right. There's all the indications that we can do that. It's got a great inventory of gold and it's a great swing with the gold price where it is and potentially where it's headed. It's great to have that in the portfolio. But that's no reason not to make it more efficient.

In terms of if you were, we've mothballed Telfer in the past before. I mean, there's many options on what you might do in a precipitous situation. But we're firmly focused on making it a successful business.

Okay. Thank you. Perhaps, one last one then, back to Gosowong, you didn't quite replace reserves this year. From the exploration results that you've accrued during the year, do you expect that you're still in a position to perhaps, in a lumpy fashion, replace reserves or is the prospectivity actually declining?

Look, I think that extends general exploration. We continue to add ounces in that area from existing mine. But what we wanted to make sure, we either discover or close out, is any potential larger deposits that exist on the Contract to Work areas. So, that's kind of been the focus, but we continue to make extension. But as you point out, you can't replace reserves forever – depletion forever. So we'll just, as I said, we'll take a view on this in the next 6 to 12 months.

Great. Thanks, Sandeep.

Welcome, Michael. [Operator Instructions]

But our next question comes from Sophie Spartalis from Merrill Lynch. Please as your question, Sophie.

Good morning, team. Just following on from Michael's question on Telfer, are you still progressing with the desktop study to evaluate how you can extract more efficiently those underground resources and that involving potentially changing the mining methodology?

Yes, we are. We're continuing to do the drill out of the sort of theoretical blocks and blocks sizes and when we reach a determination on whether that makes sense or not in the course of this calendar year.

Okay. Great. And then, just in terms of the tier 1, this production growth that you've been talking about, just to make sure that we're all on the same page. In the current portfolio, can we assume that you've got Cadia, Lihir and Wafi-Golpu as tier 1? And then, to Matt's question, you said that SolGold, that in equity interest in the moment, isn't a tier 1. So, you actually got three out of the five already in your portfolio?

Correct. That's how I'm viewing it. I mean, SolGold could potentially be one, but I mean, it's too early to tell.

Yeah. Okay. Great. Thank you.

There are no more further questions from the telephone. I'd like to hand the call back to Sandeep for any continuing remarks. Please continue.

Yeah. No, we have no more questions on Slido. So, I think we're...

Well, thanks, everyone, for attending the call.

Thanks. I think, with that, we'll wrap up.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the call. Thank you all for participating. You may all disconnect. Goodbye.