Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — Chief Financial Officer & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Peter O'Connor — Analyst, Shaw & Partners Ltd.
Stefan Hansen — Analyst, Morgan Stanley Australia Ltd.
Sophie Spartalis — Analyst, Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Ltd.
Paul Hissey — Analyst, RBC Securities Australia Pty Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Newcrest Mining 2016 Full Year Results Conference Call. I advise that this conference call is being recorded today, Monday, August 15, 2016.

I would now hand the conference over to Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. Please go ahead, Mr. Maitland.

Thank you, Keith. Good morning and welcome. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. Both will be speaking today on Newcrest's full-year results for the year ended 30 June 2016.

First, please note the company's disclaimers on the first two slides of our presentation. These relate to forward-looking statements, ore reserves and resource reporting, and the competent person's statement and the use of non-IFRS financial information referred to in the presentation. As you may already be aware, Newcrest has moved to U.S. dollar reporting, and all dollar references made in this presentation refer to the U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, Gerard and I will take you through our financial results for the last year, provide a review of our operations and update on our pipeline of organic growth projects. Our focus remains firmly on safety and maximizing our free cash flow and pursuing profitable growth.

On safety, the two fatalities during the first quarter of the financial year were tragic and simply unacceptable to me and all of us at Newcrest. Following an intense external review of our safety systems and processes, in December 2015, we officially launched our safety transformation program, which consists of three key elements: NewSafe, Critical Control Management, and Process Safety.

The three pillars work together to ensure that we're building a stronger safety culture where people can make the safe choice. The NewSafe culture supports the implementation of Critical Control Management where the life-saving controls are known, in place, and verified as working. Both of these also support Process Safety, which looks to systematically and comprehensively manage the integrity and containment of high-energy and toxic processes. Just over eight months into our safety transformation, we're seeing the positive changes in the field and in the conversations our people are having. In turn, these changes are positively impacting the safety results.

We have seen the turnaround in the TRIFR trend. Since the safety transformation was launched, we've seen reductions for the past two quarters. The last quarter's TRIFR result was 2.5, the second lowest quarter ever for Newcrest. This reduction is attributed to the benefits of NewSafe and Critical Control Management. NewSafe is now embedded at Telfer, Cadia, and Gosowong with frontline supervisors receiving active coaching and employees committing to the safety behaviors that will keep them and their mates safe. Lihir and Bonikro are soon to follow.

We've implemented a three-level critical control management process right across the company. The first level requires managers to regularly verify that controls are documented and in place. The second level is a supervisor-level check, which is done more frequently. Since March, we've conducted over 9,000 field checks, focused around the few critical controls that must be in place to protect their workers. The third level, being frontline operator checks, is being designed and will be in place in the coming financial year.

Process Safety requirements have been integrated into the health, safety, and environment management system. This is increasing the rigor of our investigations and risk assessments and standardizing the process across the group. Foundational work is being done at sites through training of key employees and process safety, process safety audits and reviews.

Turning to our operational and financial results, at Newcrest, we are focused on delivering on our commitments to our shareholders, which is why I am pleased to say that we have now met our production guidance for three years in a row. We have continued to lower costs, repay debt, and progress our growth options.

Our focus on the four key areas of safety, operational discipline, cash generation, and profitable growth has resulted in improved performance from the operations with all operations free cash flow positive before tax. This free cash flow was used to repay debt and achieve all our financial metric targets. Our financial performance, balance sheet strength, and outlook has enabled the board to determine to pay a dividend of $0.075 per share.

Turning now to our operations. The operating performance and financial results for Lihir are a result of Edge business improvement initiatives throughout the year. The team at Lihir were focused on debottlenecking the plant, increasing uptime of the plant, reducing costs, and improving efficiencies. This resulted in record annual grinding output of 12.1 million tonnes and record annual gold production under Newcrest ownership of 900,000 ounces. We were just 30,000 ounces shy of the record achieved back in 2008-2009 when the plant was processing ore with an average grade of 5.4 grams per tonne.

At Cadia, there was marginally higher gold production for the year as a result of higher head grade from Cadia East ore, replacing Ridgeway ore, following Ridgeway being placed on care and maintenance in March.

In October last year, concentrator 1 SAG mill suffered a motor failure, which took it offline for five weeks, adversely impacting production. Panel Cave 2 ore production continued to increase with the primary focus on ground support activities, undercut production drilling, and developing the undercut level ahead of the extraction level.

Telfer produced less gold and copper this year, primarily the result of lower head grade, driven by lower underground ore production, which consequently was supplemented by lower grade stockpile material. In February this year, the open pit and mobile maintenance operations transitioned to a contractor, which is starting to deliver real cost savings.

At our half-year results in February, we're in the middle of a rescue operation at Gosowong, which I'm extremely pleased to say was successful. The fall of ground, which trapped Pak Mursalim for eight days underground, led to a shutdown of mining operations at both mines. Mining recommenced at Toguraci on the 12th of April and at Kencana on the 10th of June.

In response to the fall of ground, we've changed the mining method at Kencana to rely solely on cut and fill. As a result, we now expect the combined ore output from both mines will only be three quarters of the prior output.

At Bonikro, we placed the Bonikro pit on care and maintenance in October 2015 and increased production from the nearby Hiré pit. At Hidden Valley, the joint venture partners continue to review all strategic options.

Pre-stripping for stage five has a lead time to first ore of approximately 18 months and remains on hold with the focus of the operation moving to safety processing stockpiles and a reduced level of mining in the Hamata pit. It's expected that processing of the existing low-grade ore stockpiles can potentially continue for approximately 12 months, subject to market and operating conditions.

Over the year, Newcrest continued to deliver on promises. Operationally, we achieved group production guidance. But this was not achieved safely, and we recognize that we cannot claim to be operationally successful if we have fatality. We achieved our 12 million tonne per annum sustainable grinding throughput at Lihir, and we remain confident of meeting our next target of 13 million tonnes per annum by the end of December this year, subject to operating and market conditions.

At the half year, we outlined the potential $1 billion saving on capital for Lihir with the Pit Optimization Study. Cadia East has continued to ramp up successfully. A strategic review of Telfer resulted in a move to lower cost contract labor for the open pit operations, and we provided updates to the market on the Stage One and Stage Two Golpu studies in February. However, we did not meet our commitment to deliver our findings on the pathway through expanding Cadia's processing capacity to 32 million tonnes per annum. So, this was a good reason for this. Shortly, I will go into the detail, but in summary, [ph] our work to-date has identified (09:08) significant value-adding opportunities, resulted in the scope of the study being expanded. This will take us additional time to complete.

The next steps of Newcrest operational improvement journey are focused on continuing to improve throughput and recoveries at Lihir, both of which I will talk to later in the presentation. At Cadia, we are focused on safety and ramping up Cadia East mine production to fully utilize the installed processing capacity, and at Gosowong, we are adjusting to the new mining approach following the geotechnical event.

Underpinning our improvement [ph] drive at (09:46) all operations is the Edge improvement program, which systematically seeks to involve all our employees in identifying and accelerating the safe maximization of free cash flow.

I will now hand over to Gerard to outline our financial results for the year.

Thank you, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. 2016 was a good year for Newcrest financially. As with our operational commitments, we delivered on our financial commitments for the year, which together culminated in a 27% reduction in net debt. Achievements for the financial year included being within group cost guidance, achieving an all-in sustaining cost of $762 per ounce for the year, generating $814 million in free cash flow despite a lower gold price environment, and this is our 10th quarter in a row of positive free cash flow.

We reduced our net debt by $782 million in the last financial year and by $1.6 billion over the last two years. This in turn has resulted in Newcrest being within all four of our target financial metrics, including our leverage ratio of 1.6 times being below our target of 2 times. This performance, balance sheet strength, and outlook provided the board sufficient confidence to announce a final dividend of $0.075 per share, Newcrest's first dividend since February 2013.

Touching briefly on profit, Newcrest underlying profit for FY 2016 was $101 million lower than FY 2015. Lower profit was due to the $263 million impact of lower gold and copper prices and $131 million of high depreciation. These impacts were partially offset by $248 million of lower operating costs and lower income tax expense.

In line with our focus on cash generation, I am pleased to say that all sites contributed positively on a pre-tax basis to the group's free cash flow of $814 million. Cadia continued to be a strong cash flow contributor, but importantly, I'd like to highlight Lihir which contributed $307 million of free cash flow in the year.

Applying our free cash flow to repay debt has been an ongoing commitment for Newcrest over the last two years. This has resulted in our net debt decreasing from the peak of over $4 billion at 31 December 2013 down to $2.1 billion at 30 June 2016. Importantly, over 90% of the remaining outstanding debt is in form of long-dated corporate bonds. As at 30 June 2016, Newcrest had over [ph] $170 million (12:37) of debt due for payment in the next five years.

As I noted earlier, the Newcrest board has announced an unfranked dividend of $0.075 per share. In accordance with our dividend policy, which remains unchanged, the board had regard to our target financial parameters, all of which Newcrest now meet, profitability, capital requirements, and market conditions in making this decision. The dividend is a signal of the board's confidence in the financial health of the company and its outlook.

I know a lot of investors are interested to understand what we intend to do with future free cash flow now that we have significantly improved our financial strength and [ph] inside our (13:19) target financial metrics. Subject to market and operating condition, we plan to continue to reduce net to provide greater financial strength and flexibility while also being in the position to fund profitable growth and provide returns to shareholders.

All four legs of our capital allocation process are interlinked and aim to deliver back to our shareholders over the long term. Financial strength allows us to make returns to the shareholders and to fund profitable growth, which in turn provides free cash flow in the future [indiscernible] (13:40) this strong balance sheet position.

On that note, I will hand back to Sandeep to talk to Newcrest's future projects and opportunities.

Thanks, Gerard. I will now take you through our approach to achieving profitable growth. Our exploration team is central to our future who will continue to progress greenfield exploration projects. To spread our reach further, we've entered into 12 agreements with junior explorers. Generally speaking, brownfield exploration and development offers the lowest cost and lowest risk growth in our business.

For example, adding additional processing capacity at our world-class Cadia operation delivers the best return for our shareholder. And at Lihir, while improving throughput and recoveries, we can continue to drive down costs and increase production which should be achieved without substantial capital expenditure.

At Golpu, we are progressing the special mining lease application and other regulatory approvals. For a company the size of Newcrest, it's important to have a range of projects in each stage of the growth platform. On the exploration side, Newcrest has over the last two years been focused on early-entry opportunity. Whether it's Newcrest 100% owned or through farm-in agreements with juniors, I'm pleased with the restocking of this area of the platform.

Our approach is to quickly assess each project, progress those which are attractive to us and turn over those that do not and replace them with new projects. The high speed of assessment in the area is the key to success. However, depending on the nature of ore bodies being sought, even if drilling is successful, these projects are likely to take anywhere between 5 to 15 years to reach production. Therefore, while maintaining a focus on the early stage of the portfolio, Newcrest is also looking at more advanced exploration and [ph] project study (15:42) opportunity. I want to assure shareholders that we'll be very disciplined in our approach to progressing any investment opportunity.

The brownfield projects on the right of this diagram are important as they represent some of the greatest potential value-add opportunities for the company, leveraging as they do our large-scale resource and reserve base in [ph] these provinces (16:03).

Newcrest has three competitive advantages in the exploration field. First, we have a solid resource base in our existing mines, the largest two which have mine lives over 30 years. This gives us the time to search for the next discovery, which is valuable given that it can take many years from first discovery to production.

Second, we've been developing smarter targeting for deeper deposits. In many established jurisdictions, the first 200 meters of ground have been very well explored but below that, relatively little exploration has occurred. This is largely a result of the difficulty in mining deep ore bodies, the Newcrest third competitive advantage and ability to mine all types of ore bodies, including using bulk underground mining techniques. It gives Newcrest [ph] the remit (16:52) to search for deeper deposits and the confidence that we'll be able to economically mine quality ore bodies discovered at depth.

Finally on exploration, Newcrest's search is global. We're looking to new surface and deep ore body. We'll continue to explore for epithermal deposits across Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, and New Zealand. In Australia, we signed early entry agreements with juniors.

We're expanding our understanding of exploration prospects in Central and South America where we're looking at both [ph] epithermal (17:25) and porphyry ore bodies. In North America, we're building our knowledge base with the aim of exploiting our competitive advantage by focusing on deeper ore bodies. Through our partnerships junior explorers, we are now actively looking exploring in more areas than we have done in recent years.

Moving to growth at our existing operations. There were three parts to our growth plan. The first is ramping up Cadia East, and that is progressing very well. I'd like to point out the overachievement we've had in Panel Cave 1. In 2014, we outlined the nameplate capacity of the cave at 9 million tonnes per annum. In FY 2016, the cave produced 15.5 million tonnes. This 72% overachievement was partly due to the extensive preconditioning work and [indiscernible] (18:12) resulting in smaller rock sizes than expected which assists with crushing requirements. But most of this has been due to the implementation of the Edge mindset of innovation and importantly, on strong performance by our frontline operators.

This graphic shows the status of the interaction between PC1 and PC2 which is progressing as we expected. We are now managing the air gap above PC2 which is being maintained between one to five meters which is ideal. As the cave grows over the coming years, the two caves will progressively interact, and we expect to form one continuous panel. All drawbells are expected to be fired in PC2 by the end of FY 2017, and by that point, we also expect PC1 and PC2 to have interacted to such a degree that we can significantly increase the draw of material from PC2.

Cadia East is ramping up and should fill the mill to existing capacity in the near term, at least to the second growth stage of Cadia, expanding the processing plant to the permitted 32 million tonnes per annum.

At the half-year results, we announced that we were conducting a prefeasibility level study to look at the optimal pathway to 32 million tonnes processing capacity. As we progress through the detailed engineering work, we identified two value-enhancing projects. The first project identified was the recovery improvement project. Decreasing the grinding size will potentially increase the recoveries at site.

The second additional project was identified as a result of the performance of PC1 and PC2, which has so far been beyond our expectations. Our options were to deliver the PFS on time or take a step back and expand the scope of the study to include these potential value-adding opportunities which [ph] is the latter (20:07). The new project scope is to expand processing capacity to 32 million tonnes and make it readily expandable and include capital equipment to decrease grinding size and improve recoveries. The decisions that PFS will explore are what is the optimal grinding technology to use, whether to include a new ball mill, which provides potentially for recovery uplift and whether to utilize the existing concentrator circuit or to build a third concentrated circuit. We are aiming to deliver a further update on the PFS at our Investor Day in November.

Moving to Lihir and I am very pleased with the start we've made on improving the performance of the site. With the new operating strategy in place and a greater focus on maintenance practices, we've been able to move from approximately 10 million tonnes of annual grinding throughput in FY 2014 to 12 million tonnes in FY 2016. There are a number of projects under way as we aim towards 13 million to 15 million tonnes per annum grinding throughput rate.

The most recent is the application of a multiple-layered ROM strategy, which involves having separate ROMs allowing for the most suitable material to be directed to the autoclaves and the float circuit and enabling consistent feed characteristics so the plant can be optimized. Other projects being considered or implemented are the commissioning of a [ph] new geo pump (21:35) in Autoclave 4 to increase the capacity of the Autoclave, float tails leach in order to improve recoveries, and projects focused on continuing to increase the reliability of the plant.

Lastly, on Lihir, improving recoveries continues to be a focus of the site. The two key drivers of the recent underperformance of recoveries have been the drought last year and operational and maintenance issues. I'm happy to say that lack of water is no longer impacting our production, and we've learnt a lot about how we can manage the plant better from a water conservation perspective.

With regard to operational and maintenance issues, this is an ongoing improvement process, and we continue to apply operational discipline in resolving them. We are also exploring low-capital projects to help us achieve our objective of getting recoveries back to 80% plus.

I'd like to end on Newcrest's six value drivers. We have a lot of gold, 69 million ounces of ore reserves. We are low cost at $762 per ounce all-in sustaining cost. We've delivered on our financial year 2016 commitments and have now met production guidance for three years. We have organic growth options in Lihir, Cadia and Golpu. We have strong exploration and technical capabilities that give us opportunities for additional growth.

We're financially robust, having reduced our net debt by 27% in FY 2016, achieved leverage ratio of 1.6 and a gearing ratio of 22.8% at 30 of June 2016. This has given the board confidence to announce an unfranked dividend of $0.075 per share.

With that, I'll pass back to the operator who'll open the lines for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thank you. I've got several if I may please. First of all, if Hidden Valley was to be shut down in 12 months or so, what's the remediation cost, please?

Michael, Gerard here. I think all of our rehab liabilities are detailed in the accounts. I think the total is around $300 million, of which Hidden Valley is a subset of that. I don't think we can break it out by asset, but it's included in [ph] that quantum (24:25).

Okay. Thank you. Secondly, with respect to the project study, still includes Namosi and O'Callaghans, is there anything actively going on at either of those projects?

Look, I think they are very much on [ph] slow burn (24:40), Namosi principally due to where the copper price is at the moment and O'Callaghans is part of the broader picture on where we take Telfer going forward. But as you know, the marketing of the product is what's the key to that project. The mining itself is first quartile, so we are valuating all the options around them.

Okay. Then with respect to your guidance for this year, I sort of understand with Cadia, with the interaction of the two panel caves, you can't be definitive in terms of what you expect because you don't know how to perform. But the wide range of guidance for Lihir, is that a function of uncertainty around plant reliability and performance or grade or both?

Look, I think – I mean, first of all, Lihir had a really good year, and I think the potential that we see in that plant gives us confidence that we can take it further, but it's got a greater degree of variability than maybe Cadia processing facility, and, therefore, you'll see a bit of a range in the guidance. But to answer your question, yes, it is a combination of both. But we're very cautious around Lihir, but we're very optimistic about where we can take [ph] the place (25:55).

Okay. Thank you. And then finally, with respect to the opportunities you've identified for the Cadia plant and recovery improvement, is that recovery improvement to achieve what was previously expected from the operation or to go over and above that? And if it's over and above, what's the potential recovery price beyond what's historically been projected?

Look, Michael, first of all, it is over and above. We're still obviously doing all the technical work. But I mean, just to give – I mean, my guess would be in the order of 1% to 2% of recovery uplift, which is significant.

Yeah. Thanks, Sandeep.

We will now take our next question from Peter O'Connor from Shaw and Partners. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Sandeep, and congratulations on a good result, particularly the cash flow. Well done. Two questions, one financial and one operational. Can I direct the first one to Gerard? Just regarding the dividend, Gerard, unfranked, why? And could you just remind me on your tax position going forward and how I should think about dividends and franking over the short and medium term?

Hi, Peter. Look, our franking account balance as at 30 June was $6.5 million. So why? Because of our tax payments over the last few years and with difficult times has been reported previously. We haven't been able to accumulate sufficient tax payments in Australia.

Going forward, as Cadia continues to grow, we expect to be paying our taxes thereon. But for now, particularly with the projects like Cadia having a really high depreciation shield as well, it's a year or so out before we start paying substantial amounts of tax [ph] that would back (27:40) a higher franked dividend.

Yes. So, I should expect unfranked dividends until that point?

Well, yeah. As and when we pay the dividend, we'll frank it to the extent possible. But it's not this half year and will depend on how much tax and the profitability of Cadia at that time.

Okay. And, Sandeep, on operations, just to follow up on Mike's question on Cadia and again, understanding the early stage of PC2, but those numbers are extraordinary for PC1, and the overachievement you talked about is remarkable. So, thinking ahead, how do I think about the potential capacity there and where is the constraint from there? Do you have to [ph] throttle it (28:15) back because you can't run it at optimized rates that you're overachieving too much?

Well, look, I mean, PC2 still remains in development. So, it's not as if we can [ph] draw on (28:26) constraints from PC2 at the moment. But you hit the nail on the head. This is the whole reason that we're re-scoping the 32 million tonne project because clearly, the mine can outperform our previous expectation.

So, now we're looking to – although we only have a license for 32 million at this point in time, we're looking to see how can we look at this in terms of Cadia's future beyond 32 million tonnes and pre-invest or at least lay out the flow sheet [ph] including the sum (28:58) of that money upfront. That's essentially the scope of the study, which also becomes particularly important where ultimately, as the grades at Cadia at the time sort of approach reserve grade, it's very important to get your tonnes up to help compensate for some of that.

Okay. Great. Thanks, Sandeep.

Now we'll take our next question from Stefan Hansen from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Morning, everyone. Just a quick one from me on Lihir. Just wondering if you could just let us know how you're thinking about or how you got to that guidance, and I guess how we should be thinking about it, I mean, in terms of throughput, recovery, and grade, and also stockpile versus ex-pit. Should we be thinking that the 13 million tonnes by [indiscernible] (29:45) is sort of base case and 80% recovery is base case? Just wondering if you can give a bit more granularity on how you're getting the guidance range?

Well, I think, obviously, our stated target is to get to 13 million tonne grinding rate. Now, the pleasing thing, if you go back to the March quarter, we achieved 12.9 million. So, I mean, we know that the plant can do it. This is more about consistency and reliability to deliver that quarter on quarter. But something in that sort of range with the recovery up in the high-70s, maybe low 80s is probably a good way to think about it.

Okay. And in terms of grade or probably maybe more appropriately, the stockpile, pit blend of a similar 50/50 nature?

I think its one-thirds, two-thirds is probably the better way to look at it.

One-third stockpile?

And in terms of grade, I....

Yeah.

Look, we've given the five-year averages for the next 15 years previously...

Yeah.

...but the grade this year is expected to be lower than last year...

Okay.

...is probably all I want to say at this point.

No worries. No worries. Can I ask just on Golpu, the special mining lease, I mean, it's been I guess, six months since it was announced that you're seeking this. Can you give a bit more of a progress update or do you have any more clarity on timing for that?

Timing is difficult in the PNG context, and obviously, there's elections coming up and what have you, but the actual application – so previously, we've been seeking a pre-mine development agreement. We're actually hopefully in the next month or so will submit our special mining lease application, which triggers the final process, and then these things have gone through nine months and have taken up to two years. So, its very difficult to say what will happen this time, but I do know that this project is something the government does want progressed. And as soon as that application [indiscernible] (31:55) we'll certainly be chasing it down to make sure that we can get the necessary approvals as soon as possible.

And just to be clear then, that's right. That pre-mining lease, that's what you needed to commence the exploration decline. Is that correct?

That's – no, no, it's to get the approvals to go ahead with the next phase. And will the actual decline start or not would depend on the approval that we received post applying for the special mining lease.

Okay. Understood. Thanks a lot, Sandeep. Cheers. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question from Sophie Spartalis from Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Two questions from me. Firstly, at Cadia, the SAG mill, the number one SAG mill that had the issues late last year, is there any intention to do a full overhaul of that mill coming into FY 2017? Is there any provision in the CapEx guidance for that?

So, we're not planning to change the mill motor this year. We have ordered the new mill motor, which will arrive in the March quarter, probably late in the quarter or thereabout. And there is some Capex in there for the actual purchase of the motor, but there's no cost in the CapEx for the installation of the motor.

We are putting additional monitoring on the current repair, and that seems to be performing fine right now. We've installed the bypass that we spoke about in the past in case we do have an unexpected failure of the current motor. So, I think all those contingency is in place. And once the motor is here, we'll then decide when is the right time to replace it.

Okay. Great. And then just a second follow-up question. You mentioned that you are looking at deeper exploration potential across North America. Is that more along the lines of sort of a greenfield area or you'll be willing to acquire an existing asset with underground potential?

Look, we're pretty open. I mean, in the context of my comments, we are around more greenfield. But we are always scanning the horizon if something like that would come up where we can add differential value and it makes money for our shareholders, we'd look at it, sure.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Paul Hissey from Royal Bank of Canada. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi, guys. Can you just remind me at what stage the PNG government will elect or needs to elect their willingness to exercise the option in Golpu and is that something that's sort of being negotiated now or is that another step which comes after the awarding of the sort of pre-mining license?

It occurs at the awarding of the special mining license. I mean it is – and how that all happens is all regulated by the Mining Act. But we got to bear in mind there is also a new Mining Act that's being been kicked around for the last five to seven years, which the government is actively considering, but the trigger is the granting of the special mining lease.

So, fair to say that's part of the negotiations or part of the deliberations taking place right now?

Yes, I think that's fair. I mean, we are actively in discussion all the time with the government on various things, but yeah, all these matters are for discussion.

Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

As there are no further questions at this time, that will conclude today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back to our speakers for any additional or closing remarks.

Thanks very much, everyone, for participating in the call and have a good day.