corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 16, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Ian Smith, Chief Executive Officer


Welcome everyone and thank you very much for affording us some of your time. This is the


presentation of Full Year Results for 2008-2009 for Newcrest, another solid year. We’ll be going


through an introduction, very brief, and then Greg Robinson will be taking over to go through our full


year financial results and site guidance. And then I’ll come back with some five-year outlook and


general guidance and then look at some of our reserves and resources, but with a particular


emphasis at the end of the presentation on our exploration upside and profile going forward.


As I said before, a solid year. Our statutory profit was up 85% and you’ll see the gap between


underlying and statutory continue to close over the years. So the non-cash accounting treatment


after tax hedge approach continues till now. So this year we’ll be just over 200 million, the year after


a 100, and then basically we’ve closed out that virtual hedge front. So you’ll see those two figures


continue to close. Net cash was again in excess over a billion dollars for the second year in a row.


And the other great thing about our results is our reserves and resource continue to show a profile


that enables not only the growth that we’ve portrayed over the next five years, and I’ll be coming


back to that later in the presentation, but also a foundation where we are starting to get more and


more confidence, but on top of that five year growth profile we’ll be able to add some additional


operational points. So a very quick overview.


And without further ado, I would like to hand over to Greg Robinson to go through the financials.


Greg Robinson, Finance Director


Thanks, Ian, and good morning everyone. Just going through the financial results just looking at


summary to start with, it was eerily similar to last year, so our underlying profit sitting around 483


million, last year at the 494 million. And as Ian mentioned, on a statutory profit basis when you look


at the amortization of the hedge side, an 85% increase from 134 million to 248. The cash flow from


operations, again over $1 billion dollars for the second year. And looking at dividends, we’ve


increased the dividends from $0.10 per share to $0.15 a share.


Now just to look at little more detail at the revenue side of things, what I am going to do through this


presentation I’m just going to walk through P&L and then I may get to the balance sheet items,


cash flow, and finish with the some operational guidance points before I hand back to Ian. And he


will sort of wrap-up the overall guidance and the longer-term outlook.


So starting with revenue, we are unhedged as you all know now. We’ve got that accounting


amortization, which continues for the next three years, but is starting to reduce in impact. We have


no gold or copper long-term hedge positions.


And just for everyone’s information, if we’d gone back to mid-2006 when we had the old hedge


book, we were hedged at roughly $540 an ounce. If we’ve had our hedge book, that hedge book in


position today, we would’ve had one million ounces at $540 an ounce and our gold revenues would


have been $670 million lower. So it just gives you an idea of what’s happened with the gold price


over the last few years and the impact of that decision we’ve made a few years back.


Anyway, overall revenue has increased by 7% and basically gold revenue is up, and copper


revenue is down. Looking at gold, the physical sales decreased by 7%, but the prices increased by


28% which led to an overall increase in gold revenue of 18%.
corrected transcript


Newcrest Mining Ltd.
 
NCM.AU
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 16, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Copper sales increased by 11%, but conversely prices decline by 26% which led to the same


impact, but opposite, 18% reduction in copper revenue.


The economic drivers behind that just on a U.S dollar basis so people just get rough idea, gold for


the year went from last year $821 an ounce to $934 an ounce this year. And copper did apposite,


as I mentioned, it’s gone from $3.53 a pound last financial year to $2.36 a pound this year. And


then the other big economic driver is, obviously, currency, and currency last year was running at 89


-- sorry $0.75 and this year at $0.89 -- sorry, reverse that last year at $0.89, this year at $0.75.


Now looking at total cost, cost of sales has increased by about 140 million or 9%, so I am going to


run through the breakdown of how that occurred. The biggest impact there was an 8% increase in


mine production costs, and again I’ll get on to that, and then higher deferred mining amortization,


which was just a function of what we did at Telfer, so most of that deferred mining expense came


through the Telfer operation.


The gas cost, you all have seen that building in the quarterlies in the sense of what the Varanus


Island incident cost us. In the final analysis it only cost us $9 million. We had an insurance claim for


the rest of it. So we ended up getting back a significant amount of money to reduce that overall gas


impact to $9 million.


Depreciation was slightly lower than last year. Realization and royalty payments were about in line


with last year, and again I’ll go with that bit later. So what I’d like to do first is move to the mine


production cost, because there is a fair bit of detail in that.


So, during the year, the costs in mine production really increased 7.7%. There were three main


factors to consider when you’re thinking about Newcrest costs. The first is lagging cost impacts that


don’t really reflect the rapid economic slowdown. Most costs are running at longer-term contracts


with six-month type pricing contracts or pricing effects. And so as the economy rapidly slowed, we


saw instant impacts in commodity prices and liquid cost markets like diesel. But in some of our


longer term cost areas or longer-term contracts, those impacts weren’t as instant.


The second -- and I’ll talk about that in the Sec -- the second major impact was the depreciation of


the Australian dollar. If we look at overall cost increases that roughly the $140 million increase, we


had a currency impact of about $50 million, 20 million of that was sitting in Gosowong and the rest


of that sat around the Australian operations.


And then finally, we saw, and we’ll illustrate this in the next slide too, we saw in the second half


some of those costs starting to come off. And you can see some of those impacts in the line items


above. So, thinking in more detail around the key influences, wage increases, as you can see there


on the slide, employee salaries was certainly up compared to last financial year. And then you see


the impact half year-on-half year where we started to see a decline. So, we set our wage increases


mid-year last year, which was in obviously a very different economic environment. And then in the


second half, you’ve seen the initiatives were put in place about restraining the labor costs within the


business.


Overall, in the influence here we saw a very dramatic, as I mentioned, movement around October-


November last year, which impacted the really liquid market, so again gold, copper, currency, and


important diesel. Diesel fell and you’ll see it in the half-year and the full year comparisons. But


many other costs were not as consistent. And the big increases that you can see here around


liners, grinding material, mining contracts, were all under those sort of contract structures.


And they also had with them associated larger activity, particularly when we look at liners and


grinding material, we had new ready mill start up at Gosowong and at Cadia. And we had a higher


degree of maintenance, as we got at Telfer, as we got on to our quarterly maintenance schedule.