Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Christopher Maitland — Head-Investor Relations, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Sandeep Biswas — CEO, Executive Director & Managing Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — Chief Financial Officer & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Newcrest Mining December 2016 Half Year Results Conference Call. I advise that this conference call is being recorded today, Monday, February 13, 2017. This is Chris Maitland, Head of Investor Relations of Newcrest Mining. With me today is our Managing Director and CEO, Sandeep Biswas; and our Finance Director and CFO, Gerard Bond. Both will be speaking today on Newcrest's half-year results for the six months ended 31 December 2016.

Please note that if you wish to ask a question submit them via the sli.do website. See today's market release for details on how to access sli.do. We use this means of getting questions at our recent Investor Day, and the feedback was very positive in that it encouraged everyone to put forward questions, so we're using it again.

First, please note the company's disclaimer is on the first two slides of our presentation. These relate to forward-looking statements, ore reserves, and resources reporting, and [indiscernible] (00:56) statement and the use of non-IFRS financial information referred to in the presentation. As you may already be aware, Newcrest is a U.S. dollar reporting entity, and all dollar references made in this presentation refer to the U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified.

I'll now hand the call over to Sandeep.

Thanks, Chris, and good morning, everyone. Today, Gerard and I will take you through our financial results for the last six months, provide a review of our operations and look into the future, and update on our pipeline of organic growth projects. Our focus remains firmly on safely maximizing our free cash flow and pursuing profitable growth.

Over the last six months, we've continued to roll out our safety transformation program, which is based on the three pillars of NewSafe, Critical Control Management, and Process Safety. The three pillars work together to ensure that we're building a stronger safety culture where people can make the safe choice.

You can see that our Australian operations have the highest total recordable injury frequency rate of our sites, and that's why we commenced the NewSafe rollout there. Notwithstanding that the injuries driving the increase in TRIFR rates at Telfer and Cadia were minor in nature, we treat it as a serious issue and remain focused on improving safety.

On Critical Control Management, we're ahead of our plan, having performed over 1,000 system verifications and over 96,000 field critical control checks. And lastly, on Process Safety, we've completed the baseline reviews at each of our sites. And there, we're updating all our piping and instrumentation diagrams, which is going to assist in the identification of the major process safety risks.

Turning to our operational and financial results for the half, we produced 1.23 million ounces of gold and 49,000 tonnes of copper. And we remain on track to achieve our production guidance for FY 2017. We've continued to progress our growth options, but brownfield and greenfield. And having generated $258 million in free cash flow, we've reduced our leverage ratio to 1.3 times at the 31st of December 2016. Today we've also announce an interim dividend of $0.075 per share.

You will have seen this page in our previous presentations, which clearly depicts two of the key elements that distinguish Newcrest in the gold industry. With around 27 years of reserve life more than any of our peers and producing ounces at a low cost relative to other gold majors, Newcrest is uniquely positioned to generate value for shareholders over the long term. We continue to strive to realize the full value potential of our current operating assets, and to progress our near, medium, and longer-term growth options.

Operationally, Newcrest has had a good six months. In addition to production, we achieved a number of key milestones and targets. Lihir received – achieved its targeted 13 million tonnes per annum milling throughput rate. This is a significant increase on the 10 million tonnes per annum it was doing in mid 2014. The team there are rightly proud of this achievement and are now focused on achieving the next milling throughput rate target of 40 million tonnes per annum.

Cadia had a big six months with Panel Cave 1 and Panel Cave 2 connecting, the benefits of which I'll touch on later. Cadia East ore production also increased as Panel Cave 2 continued its ramp up. And in the December quarter, the Cadia mill achieved an annualized mill throughput rate of 26.4 million tonnes. This is above the nameplate capacity of the plant.

And from a portfolio perspective, during the half, we divested the Hidden Valley operation. And on greenfield growth, our business development team added new alliances, [ph] farm ends (04:59), and investments to our growing early-stage portfolio.

The hedge improvement program has continued to deliver productivity improvements capital efficiencies and cost reductions across the group. In the last six months, we conducted an opportunity to review, which identified the next set of priorities for delivering on the full value potential of our business.

These interrelated priorities are focused on the following areas. Improving operational stability and predictability; while our performance overall has improved, we still have levels of instability and predictability in our core operational processes that result in production losses. Strengthening our asset management; a simple and consistently used asset management framework will help our people improve critical equipment reliability and generate more asset run time.

Unlocking value through technology and digital, which includes leveraging data driven insights and improvements to automation and process control; increasing participation in Edge by further empowering our employees to relentlessly find and implement improvement opportunities across the business. Improving management operating systems and frontline engagement; so, we're certain that we have the full productive capacity of our workforce aligned to the generation of value in that business. And lastly, reviewing our operating model to ensure we remain efficient, effective, and with clear accountabilities.

Our performances program engages our people identifying and implementing initiatives that safely generate more cash, improve productivity, and reduce costs, all in a sustainable manner. We believe this is a key driver behind our improving our operational discipline and is simply going to be the way that we work.

I will now quickly touch on the key takeaways for each of our operations for the last six months. At Lihir, all-in sustaining cost per ounce for the half was higher than the prior period as a result of the cost and outage time associated with the first total plant shutdown for four years in the September quarter. In addition, there were planned increases in stripping and sustaining capital expenditures.

At Cadia in addition to progressing development of the PC2 and ramping up its production rate, work continues on debottlenecking and efficiency projects to increase the plant capacity to 28 million tonnes per annum without significant capital requirement.

Lower head growth at Telfer impacted production and all in sustaining cost per ounce. We continue to develop the Western Flanks. And near mine exploration activities identified new targets during the half. As we mentioned in our December quarterly, there have been significant rainfall interrupting Telfer operations in January, but not of the magnitude that's required a change to our full year guidance.

At Gosowong, our focus is well on completing the ramp-up post the geotechnical event last February and searching for additional deposits. The return to improved profitability and cash generation at Gosowong is very pleasing. Bonikro was again a steady performer providing a strong cash flow.

Before I hand over to Gerard to cover the financials. I just wanted to highlight the achievement of the Cadia team in safely and successfully connecting Panel Cave 1 and Panel Cave 2. As with any activity such as this, it takes a lot of work and the application of special skills to achieve such a [ph] master and (08:39) safely, and the team did a great job. The key benefits of this achievement are a reduction in the major hazard risks associated with the two caves. We'll continue to manage [ph] through (08:50) from PC2 to safely propagate the cave, and optimize cave shape, but this is a significant achievement for the team.

With that, I'll now hand over to Gerard to outline our financial results for the half.

Thank you, Sandeep, and good morning, everyone. As with our operational commitments, we're on track to deliver on our financial commitments for the year. Achievements for the half included being on track to achieve production cost and capital expenditure guidance, achieving an all-in sustaining cost of $770 per ounce, and generating $258 million in free cash flow. This is the sixth half year in a row that Newcrest has been free cash flow positive.

We've reduced our net debt by a further $194 million in the six months. And over the last two-and-a-half-years, we have reduced our net debt by $1.8 billion. This strong financial performance has resulted in Newcrest being well within all four of our target financial metrics. I'm particularly pleased with the improved leverage ratio, which is our net debt to free cash flow. At 30 June 2014, it was 2.7 times, and you can see the progressive reduction to end December 2016 when it has improved significantly to 1.3 times.

Following on from the $0.075 final dividend for FY 2016, Newcrest performance, balance sheet strength, and outlook provided the board sufficient confidence to determine to pay an interim dividend $0.075 per share.

Moving on to profit, both statutory and underlying profit was higher in the period. Newcrest underlying profit for the six months to December 2016 of $273 million was $210 million higher. This was driven by a higher gold price and high gold and copper sales. Of course, improved profitability also comes with higher income tax expense as shown.

For the half year, the following significant items were recorded. A $10 million loss on the sale of our interest in Hidden Valley, a $14 million noncash write-down related to [ph] past (11:01) capitalized exploration in West Africa, and a $62 million realization of foreign exchange losses on historical funding arrangements.

This is noncash in nature, and has no impact on the net assets or equity of Newcrest. The $62 million moves from the foreign exchange translation reserve in equity, where it has been since 2009, to retained earnings in equity. This transfer from reserve to retained earnings needs to occur via the income statement and was required following the sales at Hidden Valley, which was the asset in respect, which the exchange rate losses we first accounted for in 2009.

Our operating cash flow of $601 million was $234 million or 64% higher in the period primarily as a result of higher gold prices. The increase in operating cash flow was the primary driver of the 2% increase in free cash flow to $258 million.

The free cash flow for the half was achieved after funding further increase in production stripping at Telfer, Lihir, and Bonikro; planned increases in sustained capital expenditure, with the majority of the increase being at Lihir; planned increases in major capital expenditures, which is associated with increasing the productive capacity of each of Lihir, Cadia, and Telfer; and included a $27 million outflow associated with the sale of Hidden Valley, and $23 million invested in SolGold.

For comparative purposes, the prior period also included $88 million in proceeds from the divestment of our remaining stake in Evolution Mining.

All our sites were free cash flow positive in the half with our two larger sites clearly generating the most cash for the group. As shown on the right of this slide, the all-in sustaining cost margin of all our continuing operations was strong.

This slide outlines Newcrest's improving financial policy metrics. There are two elements I would like to draw your attention to. Firstly, the Board has resolved to adjust [ph] debt (13:11) coverage target, being the level of cash and committed undrawn bank facilities we have, from being at least $1 billion to being at least $1.5 billion, [ph] with the aim that (13:20) around a third of this liquidity buffer [ph] will be in a (13:23) form of cash.

Secondly, with our continuing reduction of debt, we reviewed the appropriateness of the size of our bank facilities. And given the health of the liquidity position we have, we reduced those bank facilities by $400 million in January 2017. Newcrest dividend policy remains unchanged. And as we mentioned, the board [ph] is determined (13:44) to pay an interim dividend of $0.075 per share.

On to our debt structure, in May this year, we'll be repaying $100 million of U.S. private placement debt. Other than a further $25 million of private placement debt due for repayment in the 2020 financial year, we have no near-term scheduled debt repayments. So, you can expect that we will build cash in the short term, as we progress towards our target level of cash on hand.

I'm very pleased to say that Newcrest has a great balance sheet and liability structure, with a long-dated debt structure, with minimal covenants, no goodwill on the balance sheet, no unfunded defined pension benefit liabilities, and relative to our peers, a comparatively low level of future closure costs, given the relatively small number of assets in our portfolio and the long life of Cadia and Lihir.

Our provision for mine rehabilitation was $254 million at 31 December 2016. And this compares favorably with the estimates of future closure and rehab costs of some of our major peers. We worked hard to get ourselves into this position, which is one that provides a great platform for growth, which, on that note, I'll hand back to Sandeep.

Thanks, Gerard. This slide represents our approach on our pathway for profitable growth. Firstly, we do have a lot of gold, as we've previously provided to the market. We have a defined indicative production profile for the next 15 years for those assets that contribute about 70% of our current production.

Secondly, both Lihir and Cadia provide us with strong, existing, internal growth profile. Organic growth is always a great thing to have. Together, this means that we have no imperative to acquire or be active in the M&A space, where it can be hard to create real value for our shareholders.

We're able to take our time to find the right opportunities. We've got a great exploration team, and a technical team that has strong capabilities to operate any mine we might develop, be that open pit, narrow vein, or even a low-grade underground deep orebody. These capabilities will also make us an attractive partner for others that have potential development opportunities. Finally, we have and will continue to develop early-stage opportunities both brownfield and greenfield.

Today, we're not under pressure to acquire production, but we continue to develop all stages of our growth pipeline to prepare for the future. Our near-term growth targets at Lihir and Cadia are low in capital, fast payback, and are in the process of being pursued. Looking a little further ahead, medium-term opportunities at Lihir and Cadia are the focus of our projects and [ph] studies group (16:41). We've been tasked with optimizing existing assets to ensure maximum cash and value creation.

We continue to progress Golpu, which we hope will be able to bring online in the medium term. And finally, our exploration and technology teams are focused on longer-term growth options, which have the potential to unlock step-change opportunities for the company.

We have two parallel work streams on increasing the mill throughput at Cadia. The first is near term, achieving a 28 million tonne per annum throughput rate with minimal capital, by focusing on debottlenecking opportunities. Some of this debottlenecking is already coming to fruition, with the plant achieving a 26.4 million tonne per annum run rate in the December quarter. The second is medium-term being a plant expansion. The prefeasibility study continues, and we're targeting to have this complete by the end of the current quarter.

Moving now to Lihir. We first started talking about partial oxidation about two years ago now. Partial oxidation was the first step in unlocking the full value potential embedded in the 26 million ounces of reserves upside. Partial oxidation meant that the autoclaves were no longer the bottleneck. So, more ore – so, the more ore we could mill, the more gold we could produce, now, all those being equal. Intensity; so, that's the tonnes per hour rate of the mills, have been a key focus of the team. We've upgraded equipment and increased SAG and ball mill [indiscernible] (18:15) utilization. Other areas of improvement have included enhanced process control and increased automation.

In addition to getting more tonnes per hour through the mill, we have focused on getting the mills to be available more often. Improvement activities have included updating the mill liners to those that are based on the latest technology. Where we have done this has already led to more uptime in the mill. And as we complete the program, we expect this improvement will be repeated in that we now have a lower rate of out-of-cycle maintenance incidents.

We've also upgraded the conveyor rollers to a higher specification, which has reduced spillage [ph] events (18:53). We're still below industry benchmarks in some areas. But to me, that represents upside potential of the [ph] site (19:01), and have confidence that we're doing the right things to achieve that potential.

As the mill capacity continues to increase, there's a significant benefit from improving the recovery from the flotation tail and increasingly autoclave throughput. Float tails leach stage 2, which is due to be completed in the fourth quarter of this financial year, is a key aspect of minimizing recovery losses from floods. This uses a cyclone on float tails to extract the fine sulfide and cyanide soluble elements which are retained in the process.

In terms of increasing the throughput capacity of the autoclave, we've commenced installation of an additional GEHO pump on Autoclave 4, which will allow throughput to remain at normal levels, even when one of the other two pumps is offline for maintenance. We're also considering the potential for operating all three pump simultaneously and also acquiring additional pumps for the other autoclaves.

At Golpu, our longer-term growth option, there's no real change or significance to report. Work continued on the forward work plan as we work with the government on progressing the special mining lease application.

Our early-stage entry program continued during the half, and we've entered into the following arrangements which was an alliance with ANTAM with respect to regions in Indonesia, a head of agreement with Randgold covering certain regions of Côte d'Ivoire, and an option and farm-in agreement with respect to a property in Argentina.

We also acquired 10% of SolGold, who holds an interesting opportunity that could involve a porphyry ore body Ecuador. It's early days at the moment, but one that we're interested in, and we saw benefit of taking a equity stake. You can expect to see is continue to enter and turn over these early stage entry projects over the coming years.

Our most advanced early-stage entry project is Séguéla in Côte d'Ivoire. There we've drilled 28 holes principally on the Antenna Prospect. You can see the results of these in our last quarterly and they included into [ph] intersecting (21:09) high-grade mineralization. The Antenna Prospect is one of 13 priority targets in the Séguéla project, and drilling of the porphyry prospect is currently underway. Further results will be released in our quarterly reports as appropriate.

Looking at our brownfield sites, exploration continues at Gosowong, both near-mine and in the greater Contract of Work area. Drilling at the [indiscernible] (21:35) area is area progressing and we expect a decision point on what further work will be conducted there in the fourth quarter of FY 2017. Ngailamo represents a large underexplored are of the Contract of Work, and we're currently assessing prospects we believe have the potential for epithermal deposits.

At Telfer, we've utilized the latest seismic survey technology and developed new structural and mineralization models to identify new targets in the near-mine area. We plan to drill these in the next six months. In parallel, we continue to progress studies, looking at ways to economically recover the 6 million ounces in its resource above the reserve.

In the area of exploration, Newcrest has three competitive advantages. Firstly, our existing resource base gives us time to search for the next discovery, which is valuable given it can take many years from first discovery to production. Second, we've been developing smarter targeting for deeper deposits. Given the first 200 meters of the earth's crust has been very well explored in many jurisdictions, below this is where the next major discoveries are likely to be.

This is complementary to Newcrest's third competitive advantage, an ability to mine all types of ore bodies using bulk underground mining techniques as well. This gives Newcrest [ph] a remit (23:00) to search for deeper deposits and the confidence that we'll be able to economically mine quality ore bodies discovered at depth.

No investor presentation these days is complete without reference to improved technological tools available to us. This is an area in which I have a particular interest. At Newcrest, we work with our partners and suppliers to develop and implement technology to reduce safety hazards and improve production and cost efficiencies. As an example, at Cadia, we're beginning to work with Airobotics, a leader in drone technology.

Airobotics will own the drones and deal with local authorities to set up flight path [ph] in (23:40) no-fly zones. The drones will conduct up to 14 flights per day and will use advanced technology, such as infrared scanners to perform maintenance checks faster, more accurately, and more safely than we currently can. It's just one of the many examples of the deployment of technical and digital capabilities progressing across that business.

I'd like to end on Newcrest's six value drivers. We have a lot of gold, 65 million ounces of ore reserves. We are low cost at $770 per ounce all-in sustaining costs for the half. We've delivered on production guidance for over three years and are on track again this year.

We have organic growth options at Lihir, Cadia and Golpu. We have strong exploration and technical capabilities that give us opportunities for additional growth. And we're financially robust, having reduced our net debt to $1.9 billion, achieved a leverage ratio of 1.3 times, and a gearing ratio of 20.8% as at 31 December 2016.

Combined, these elements make Newcrest a unique offering in the gold industry

With that, I'll pass back to Chris, who may ask the questions that have been submitted online, and I encourage you to submit more for the remainder of the call.

Thank you, Sandeep.

Now, the first question is for Gerard, how much do you think we will save in annual fees in the $400 million reduction in the size of bilateral facilities?

Yeah. Thanks, Chris. I mean, what we save the commitment fees as the bank debt has been largely undrawn, what we relinquish is [indiscernible] (25:22) the – on the $400 million is about bit of a $2 million a year in saved commitment fees.

Moving across reserves and resources, what assumption change delivered the 20 million tonnes in net increase at – to the Cadia East resource? Sandeep?

Right. So, this increase [ph] from (25:40) drilling into PC3, which is down a bit from PC2. So, we're now talking on the East side of PC2. So, it's been included as a resource at this stage. And we obviously need to do a lot more work to determine if it can be added to the reserve.

Okay. So, the 90 million tonnes in [ph] other (25:57) in the Cadia reserve open-pit material, what is that?

Look, it is Cadia Hill open pit, and the associated stockpiles dropped to about 1.5 million ounces.

So, where does the Cadia Hills fit in the conceptual extraction plan?

Look, it's scheduled for later in the mine life. We don't disclose exactly when that is. But our focus is on Cadia East, which is the predominant ore source for quite a long period of time.

Okay. When do you anticipate being able to confirm that no additional crushers will be required at Cadia East? I think the estimated saving would be about $1.5 billion over the life of the mine. And how long is the CapEx holding before we can recommence the next – recommence [indiscernible] (26:41)?

All of these questions and others are part of the pre-feasibility study, which we're now doing in relation to the future case when they need to come on and how they will come on, et cetera.

Question on the dividends, debt is now at a level – is the debt now at a level that dividends could be stepped up materially? If so, what sort of payout ratio would the board look at?

Look, our payout ratio is not part of our dividend policy. Dividend policy is unchanged. So, we will just review what dividend to pay every six months in line with our policy.

Okay. Some had expected [indiscernible] (27:23) the news on Cadia expansion or an update on that. Can you please provide where you're at and whether the PFS remains due this current quarter?

Look, the PFS is progressing well. We certainly expect to complete it as outlined by the end of this quarter.

On the propagation [ph] during (27:44) PC1 and PC2, what is the timing on that? And when does the risk of PC2 does not behave as you planned? So, when you actually expect PC2 will be out of that danger zone?

Look PC2 is connected to PC1 at the base of the case on the West side. Our focus now is to finish the rest of the draw bells on the East side and manage the draw so we progressively take PC2 up to surface and also connect with PC1 further up on the East side of PC1.

Okay. If gold prices remain where they are, looks like you'll be generating a significant free cash flow. What is your plan for it?

Look, I mean, our first priority, obviously, is to reduce our [indiscernible] (28:39) debt, and it's just about all gone. So, we've now taken the decision, as outlined before by the – we took the decision at the board to increase our level of coverage. So, we'll now be starting to build cash up to an initial target of $500 million. And during all of this, we'll obviously balance our expenditures in relation to growth projects and sustaining CapEx. We'll look at how the market is performing and the production profiles, and also looking at the capital return to shareholders. So, it will be a balance of all of those.

How should we view major projects, CapEx at Cadia and Lihir in the coming years? Given that the initiatives on train at each site, should we expect this level of CapEx to continue for the foreseeable future?

In terms of growth CapEx?

In terms of – in growth CapEx, maybe we should break up between sustaining and growth.

Yeah. Well, they're two different questions. One is the major growth CapEx, subject to approvals and studies, revolve around obviously what we've talked about, which is the potential expansion of the concentrator. The other ones will come in due course, as we bring on more caves in terms of the long-term profile. But on sustaining capital, I think we can expect at Cadia to remain at current levels, although it might go up and down a little bit, depending what debottlenecking projects we do to give us a low cost increases, initially targeting 28 million tonnes debottleneck competitive. And at Lihir, debottlenecking CapEx will be required, as I've said, to get to 40 million tones.

And then, we're also targeting beyond, so we couldn't decide what those numbers are. And then, we'll have to decide what we do in relation to potential fines bypass or other projects to potentially go beyond [ph] 15 (30:43). All of those are still at the concept stage. And the other one, of course, is the – as we increase and we really started increasing our strip ratio as we enact the new strategy which we outlined must be about a year ago on our lateral advanced, and making a way [indiscernible] (31:00) as part of the 15-year mine plan, which we outlined to the market.

At Lihir Island, how will the mine pit versus stockpile mill feed balance change as upgrades and increased capacity is limited?

Look, we're drawing down from the stockpile and adding to the stockpile all the time. I mean, that's just part of the way we mine and blend at Lihir. Over time, obviously, we'd like to see that – the stockpile reduce in net terms. But there's a very complex formula where we'd extract the value from whatever ore sources we have, including stockpiles, and we'll continue to apply that as we go towards 40 million tonnes and beyond.

Okay. Aside from the float tails project, as Lihir pushes towards 40 million tonnes per annum and beyond, is there a likely declining gold recovery where the capital is not committed to increase oxygen, power generation?

Look in terms of gold recovery, as we've outlined, we're doing float tails leach stage 2, which should be finished by the end of the year. And that'll help offset the some of the recovery losses as we – as the milling rate increases, we're pushing more of the flotations. So, this will help counteract that. In terms of power generation, we'll have a close look at how a geothermal's performing. And depending on its longevity, that will balance whether we need to put some more power generation [ph] in our ore (32:31).

In terms of increased oxygen, because of partial oxidation, what we initially thought some years back that we may or may not have a limit there – and certainly, that equation has changed for the better considerably. The only reason, we'd increase oxygen is if we ever got to the point where they were putting so much through the autoclaves that we actually needed to increase oxygen still maintain that balance between recovery and partial oxidation. But by the time we get there, I suspect we'll have the increased gear pumps on all autoclaves. And there's a fair bit of headroom there, I guess, what I'm trying to say just now.

Look, maybe going financial position here, would you look to buyback any of your bonds?

Look, I mean, all options for capital management are on the table. But right now, they're trading at a premium. So, it really didn't make any sense to buy them back at this point in time.

When do you actually expect to have float tails stage leach 2 implemented by?

The end of this year. So, Q4, towards that end of June or thereabout, that's the plan.

And can you give us any update on the [ph] brown (33:45) situation at Telfer?

Look, the weather has improved over the last few days. But there's still potential for rain in the next seven days. I mean, someone told me that it's [ph] the wettest (33:59) January in recorded history in the region. I mean, I can't confirm that, but that's what I heard. So, it's been pretty wet.

I think we've now got to the end of the questions. Just going to do one more check, if there's any new ones coming through. And no, so I think – unless, of course, you have any last comments, we might just now wrap the call up there. So, thank you, everyone.

Well, thanks, everyone, for joining the call. Much appreciate it.