Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gregory John Robinson — Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Gerard Bond — CFO, Executive Director & Finance Director, Newcrest Mining Ltd.
Cathy Moises — Analyst, Evans & Partners Pty Ltd.
Peter Harris — Analyst, JCP Investment Partners Ltd.
Brendan Fitzpatrick — Analyst, Morgan Stanley (Australia) Ltd.
Stephen Gorenstein — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Paul Hissey — Analyst, Goldman Sachs (Australia) Pty Ltd.
Michael Slifirski — Analyst, Credit Suisse (Australia) Ltd.
Brenton Saunders — Analyst/Portfolio Manager, BT Investment Management
Paul Phillips — Analyst, Perennial Investment Partners Ltd.
Mathew Hodge — Analyst, Morningstar Australasia Pty Ltd.
Daniel Seeney — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Australia Pty Ltd.
Joseph J. Kim — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities (Australia) Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by, and welcome to 2012-2013 Full Year Financial Results. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. There will be a presentation followed a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I must advise you that this conference is being recorded today, the 12 of August 2013. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today Greg Robinson, MD and CEO. Please go ahead, Mr. Robinson.

Thank you very much. Good morning everyone. Welcome to Newcrest's August 2013 full year results conference call. I'll just do a page turn through the presentation, so if we turn to page 2, which is the disclaimer. So before I begin, I'd like to highlight the company's disclaimer, draw your attention to the statements on the slide relating to forward-looking statements, ore reserves, mineral resources and reporting our competent person's statement.

Moving to page three, just the agenda today. We'll be running through a quick financial summary upfront which I'll cover. I'll comment a little bit on the gold price, and we will talk in a brief way about the company's strategy. I'll then hand it over to our Finance Director, Gerard Bond, who'll run through the results section, and after that we'll talk about the 2014 outlook and finish with some summary comments.

So let's start with the financial year highlights, turning to page 5. Our operational performance comprised gold production of 2.11 million ounces of gold for the full year, which was within our revised guidance of 2 million ounces to 2.15 million ounces. Copper production of 80,000 tonnes was within our original guidance.

Our cash cost of production was A$750 an ounce with a cash margin of A$800 an ounce on an average gold price of A$1,550 an ounce. The all-in sustaining cost for the group for the year was A$1,283 an ounce. Delivery of our two major brownfield projects at Lihir and Cadia is the cornerstone of the year which will underpin our production and costs going forward.

Turning the page to page 6. Our underlying profit was A$451 million and the cash flow from operations was A$707 million. These were both lower than the prior corresponding period primarily due to lower prices and sales. Statutory profit was a loss of A$5.8 billion due to asset impairments, write-downs and restructuring of A$6.2 billion.

The year was very much characterized by completing major investments at Cadia East and the Lihir expansion projects, making up the bulk of the project and development capital spent during the year. We also invested A$350 million in stripping to ensure we have access to mine ore sources of suitable tonnes and grades in the medium term that enable us to deliver in line with our mine plants.

We continue to invest in exploration and the search for the next generation of projects with expenditure of A$152 million during the year. With our considerable capital investments during the year and the asset impairments, our balance sheet gearing is now 29%. We have a plan in place that is free cash flow neutral or positive through the next financial year at A$1,450 per ounce and we have over A$950 million in cash and undrawn facilities at year-end.

Turning the page to page 7. The 2013 financial year for Newcrest has been a year involving significant change and challenges both in prevailing market conditions and within the company. While we were successful in our projects delivery, it was challenging to maintain stable operations with two major brownfield projects underway and we experienced a number of operational interruptions due to the reliability of the old Lihir plant.

We also had to overcome poor ground conditions that impacted production at Gosowong and continuing difficulty with the Hidden Valley overland conveyor. These activities took place against the backdrop of significant market volatility culminating in large falls in the gold price in April. The fall in gold prices from a high of nearly $1,800 an ounce in October 2012 to a low of $1,200 in late June 2013 has reframed the operating environment for Newcrest and for all gold miners.

Newcrest has taken decisive steps to enable the company to operate successfully through this environment. As we have discussed, we've reconfigured our plans to deliver free cash flow, neutral or positive outcomes at every asset, and we intend to take further actions if business margins declined.

Our actions fit into four main areas, reducing complexity, simplifying our assets and deferring capital where appropriate, removing high cost low margin ounces from the production profile, reducing operating costs and maintaining our growth options.

Turn the page to page eight. Just like to make a couple of observations about the gold price. The first chart here is really around gold supply. And the chart illustrates the gold mining supply is restricted with increasing prices having a marginal impact on higher production. Discovery rates illustrated in the bars remain very low even with very high levels of exploration expenditure up until recently.

Turning the page. Overall, we believe the pre-conditions for a strong gold price remain intact. Supply is limited and likely to be further restricted with recent price falls. Inflation and interest rates in the medium term are uncertain. The U.S., Europe, and Japan economies remain fragile. Physical demand from Asia and central banks remains strong. The chart illustrates how strong Chinese demand has been.

Turning to page 10. It's important to clarify that the core elements of Newcrest's long term strategy are unchanged, with a focus on long life, low-cost gold assets in the Asia-Pacific region. Newcrest's concentrated asset portfolio is geographically depicted on the map in the slide. With excellent technical capability with deep underground block caving, shallow targeted underground mines, large open pits, and a variety of metallurgical processing skills, we believe in early entry opportunities and over time, many of our mines have been discovered and built by the company.

Newcrest intends to remain unhedged and fully-leveraged to the gold price and maintain a conservative balance sheet. While we are not paying a final dividend for financial year 2013, our aim remains to pay dividends as the balance of profitability and gearing allows. In this period of increased volatility and uncertainty, we will operate with a focus on free cash flow over production growth, balancing production and metal prices against the operating cost and capital investments. We are retaining our growth options for the right market environment.

So with those initial comments, I'd now like to turn it over to our Finance Director, Gerard Bond, to address the 2013 financial year.

Thanks, Greg, and good morning everyone. At the outset of the 2013 financial year, we knew it was going to be a year of transition for Newcrest as we move between different ore sources across a number of operations and we delivered major expansions at our two biggest operations, and the financial results for the year reflect this.

Over the next few slides, I'll point out the differences between the 2013 financial year and the prior year outcomes, but the key context to remember is that the two years were never going to be in alignment.

As highlighted a couple of weeks ago in our June quarterly results, Newcrest met its operating and capital cost guidance for the 2013 financial year and its revised reduction guidance. However, gold production was around 8% below the bottom of the original guidance, and this combined with the decline in metal prices had a significant impact on the financial outcomes I'm about to discuss.

So let's start with a snapshot of the key financial outcomes in slide 12. Underlying profit of A$451 million in 2013 was A$633 million lower than the prior year. This was driven by A$641 million reduction in sales revenue which, in turn, resulted from a combination of gold sales volumes being 12% lower and the gold price being 4% lower. I'll talk a little later about the main drivers of the lower gold production that flowed into the lower sales volume.

Mine production costs were higher in the current period by A$207 million or 9%. This higher amount was within guidance and the increasing cost was primarily driven by higher plant throughput as planned and maintenance. While the main driver for higher production cost was a high level of activity, price-driven cost increases were also seen in energy, cyanide and employee labor. The impacts of these cost increases were partially offset by the benefits of savings in steel-based products, such as liners and grinding media and also in lower contract labor rates.

Operating cash flow of A$707 million was approximately A$1 billion lower than the prior period. This reduction was driven primarily by the sales receipts being A$640 million (sic) [A$641 million] (10:17) lower, stripping activity being A$179 million higher, and treatment costs being A$138 million higher as a result of increased throughput.

Finally, the lower metal prices and decline in gold equity valuations has resulted in Newcrest impairing a number of assets, writing down the value of other assets, and providing for restructuring charges. And I'll cover these in a little more detail later in the presentation.

Turning to the next slide, slide 13, we can go deeper into what caused the decline in sales revenue in the year. Of the reduction in the sales revenue, A$478 million or 75% of the total was driven by lower sales volumes resulting from lower production and sales timings effects. The remaining A$163 million or 25% of the change was due to lower prices for all three metals that we produce and sell, being the prices realized for gold, copper and silver.

The change in production was a mix of planned and unplanned changes. Planned changes included the increased use of lower-grade stockpiles at Cadia Valley following the completion of open-pit mining at Cadia Hill in June 2012. We will continue to rely on these stockpiles while Cadia East Panel Cave ramps up over the coming year. Cadia Valley production was 26,000 ounces lower than 2012, but it was in line with guidance.

Another expected outcome was at Telfer where more ore was sourced from the West Dome open pit, which has a high sulfur content which reduced gold recoveries.

Finally in comparing the two years, the prior year contained 48,000 ounces from the since divested Cracow and Mt Rawdon operations.

Unfortunately there were also unplanned impacts to production, which we have discussed in detail over the year. These included challenging ground conditions at Gosowong, reducing the grade of ore feed to the plant, and lower reliability at Lihir reducing plant throughput relative to our planned rate of increase.

The reduction in EBITDA and EBIT margins shown on this slide reflect the lower sales revenue as well as increased costs, which I'll discuss in the following slides. It's worth noting that the profitability margins were particularly impacted by the lower relative production contribution from the higher margin Gosowong operation.

The next slide, slide 14, highlights in detail the drivers for the change in production at each of our operations between the current and prior financial year. Cracow and Mt Rawdon are not shown because they are divested. At Cadia Valley you can see the effects of the cessation of mining at Cadia Hill in terms of significantly lower material movement as well as impact to the line on lower-grade stockpiles that also impact recoveries. Even with the significantly higher mill volumes with an expanded plant, the lower grade resulted in lower metal production.

In FY 2014 we expect more from Cadia East will further displace Cadia Hill stockpiles in the mill, and this will improve production volume. Greg will cover this a little more later in the presentation.

At Telfer we had a big increase in material movement associated with a major stripping campaign, and we also had favorable mill grades. However recoveries were low due to the elevated levels of sulfur in the West Dome ore feed, which we used more of in this year just gone. So at constant mill throughput, production was lower.

As we move back into Main Dome ore, the recoveries are expected to improve. At Gosowong we experienced a striking reduction in grade due to poorer than expected ground conditions underground in our high-grade areas. Mill throughput increased significantly, but this was not sufficient to offset the grade decline.

At Lihir our throughput volume was higher after commissioning of the plant expansion in the middle of the year, but this was not enough to offset the flexible liability challenges early in the year that contributed to the shortfall in production relative to original guidance.

The change in mining and mill grade shown on the slide there is a function of mining sequence, transitioning from the Lienetz pit to the Minifie pit and you can see a significant uplift in recoveries resulting from the new plant coming on-line. Both Hidden Valley and Bonikro reflect higher levels of mill throughput and lower grades and recoveries driven by the ore being accessed in this stage of their respective mine plants.

So if you turn to slide 15, I will unpack the cost of sales here. Costs of sales were A$146 million higher in the financial year 2013 and that's primarily due to the impact of our new expansion projects. Increased mine production stripping costs are primarily due to our process plan expansions ramping up at Cadia Valley and Lihir.

As mentioned, the main driver with this increase is increased volumes processed. Increased inventory cost period-on-period were due to lower buildup of inventory as we – additional inventory consumption fit higher processing rates across the group. And the third bar, the blue bar, realization, royalty and depreciation, that increase were driven primarily by an increasing depreciation as new capital projects moved into operation from middle of the year.

On to slide 16 now and you can see how mine production costs were driven by a higher level of processing throughput and increased waste stripping. We had increased process plant capacity throughput at Cadia Valley and Lihir as a result of completed expansion projects and to a lesser extent, at Gosowong, Bonikro, Hidden Valley, Telfer offset the impacts of lower grade.

Process cost per tonne, shown in the bottom right there, increased during the plant ramp-up phase at Lihir as the new plant's equipment is being optimized. Process cost across the group were also impacted by higher energy and labor price effects and by increased maintenance costs during the year. Higher investments in stripping shown there was primarily Telfer Stage 4 and Lihir Phases 11 and 12, and Bonikro Cutback 4. All this stripping is done to expose ore for future gold production. We're focused on waste resulted in low ore movements relative to financial year 2012. Additional general and administrative costs were related to plant expansion activity and stock obsolescence and is expected to moderate going forward.

Onto slide 17, cash flow from operations. I'd like to talk to you the movement in operating cash flow. For the period, it was approximately A$1 billion lower than the prior year. The main driver for this reduction was lower sales volumes as we've covered before and prices, and by higher mine production costs. All of this covered on previous slides.

Community project contributions at Lihir reduced cash flow by A$37 million, whilst tax was down A$57 million due to lower relative earnings. Interest increased by A$66 million as we had a higher level of average debt during the year.

Turning to the next slide, slide 18, and you can see the level of investment in 2013 declined in line with guidance. Comparing capital expenditure stripping and exploration between financial years 2013 and 2012, you can see that we have reduced investment by A$448 million or 15%. The A$1.9 billion of capital expenditure in 2013 was in line with the original guidance.

The 2013 value shows a reduction in capital expenditure associated with the first commercial production in Cadia East and Lihir plant expansion being delivered in the period. Total capital on both was around A$780 million lower in the year than we spent in the prior. Expenditure in Wafi-Golpu pre-feasibility study continued during the year with the focus on further developing the ore-body knowledge, refining pre-feasibility capital cost and evaluating ore recovery characteristics.

Development expenditure increased in the current period driven primarily by the expansion of the Cadia East Panel Cave 1 footprint and development of Panel Cave 2. Sustaining CapEx was slightly higher than previous year due mainly to the Lihir plant refurbishment program. Capitalized waste stripping increased in 2013 financial year as we completed our contract stripping activity in Telfer and progressed significant stripping activities at Bonikro and at Lihir. And exploration expenditure of A$152 million was broadly in line but marginally lower than that in the prior year.

As mentioned previously, capital expenditure will decline significantly in the 2014 financial year down to around A$1 billion as previously announced and we'll talk to that a little later in this presentation.

On to slide 19, as we've announced to the market already, Newcrest has accounted for asset impairments, asset write-downs and restructuring costs in the 2013 financial year of an amount of A$6.2 billion after-tax. This amount was determined as part of carrying value tests and reflected the impact of the change in metal prices, the reduction in gold equity valuations and other market factors. This comprises a A$5.6 billion impairment of assets including reduction in goodwill at Lihir and Bonikro. It also includes impairment of our high cost operations, Telfer, Hidden Valley and Bonikro.

Additional asset write-downs were made in relation to Newcrest investment in Evolution Mining and in other assets. The impact of these impairments was an elevation of gearing by about 9% to 29%. And it's worth noting the reserve and resource estimates are not directly impacted by this impairment. The reserve and resource review will be conducted in line with our normal processes and that will conclude late in calendar 2013 and will be announced in February 2014.

Onto slide 20, liquidity and gearing. During the year, Newcrest increases bilateral bank loan facilities to $2.5 billion when it renewed these facilities in September 2012 for terms of three and five years. During the period, we also issued $1 billion of bonds in the U.S. 144A market, $750 million of these are due for repayment in 2022 and have a coupon of 4.2% per annum, whilst the remaining $250 million are due for repayment in 2041, and a coupon of 5.75% per annum.

This increase in bank facilities and long-dated bond issue combined to significantly improved Newcrest debt maturity profile and our financial flexibility. Newcrest retains a conservative balance sheet albeit with a high gearing of 29% at the end of the financial year. At June 30, Newcrest had over A$950 million in cash and undrawn bilateral facilities. And as Greg mentioned, the company is being managed for a free cash flow neutral or a positive outcome in the financial year 2014.

Newcrest is committed to a conservative balance sheet. Newcrest's target maximum gearing of 15% was based on being able to withstand a significant change in market conditions and to allow to complete major capital projects. We have experienced a major price change in the first half of calendar year 2013 and we are over the peak of our major capital program with CapEx as shown, projected to decline further in 2014.

Gearing of 29% at year-end is above our long-term target level and we will progressively reduce debt over the coming years as we journey back to that level. We aim to retain our investment grade credit rating though we note that a changing rating does not impact the costs of our existing debt facilities.

And with that I'll hand back to Greg.

Thanks, Gerard. We'll now look at the outlook for the 2014 financial year. So if we turn to slide 22, I just want to make a couple of comments in perspective of where forecast gold prices have gone. So the decline in metal prices has had a significant impact on Newcrest revenues going forward.

If you look at the change in the gold price forecasts for 2014 financial year between the end of December 2012 and the end of June 2013, this has had a net annualized revenue reduction in excess of A$800 million for Newcrest at existing physical production levels. With revenue reductions of this scale, management action was necessary and inevitable.

As we've discussed in our recent market commentary, Newcrest has reduced its workforce, paused longer-term capital investments, reconfigured operations to remove high-cost ounces from the production profile, reduced overall costs and is really driving now free cash flow neutral or positive outcomes at every site at A$1,450 per ounce.

So turning the page to page 23, this slide summarizes the differences at a group level between 2013 and 2014. The objective on this slide is to really show the difference in activity between the two years. Overall, we have significantly reduced the number of people in exploration, operations, projects and corporate. This does reduce our operating costs, our capital spend and generally simplifies our business.

In the projects area, project capital will reduce by about A$1 billion, with an expected reduction in construction personnel. This reduction in people will simplify activities particularly at our two key operations namely, Cadia and Lihir. Most of those numbers are obviously attached to the completion of the Cadia East expansion and the Lihir MOPU project.

In exploration, we have decreased activity during the year from A$152 million to a forecast of A$85 million in 2014. The main reduction in people in this area is around drilling contractors. In operations, we've reduced open pit activity at Lihir, Telfer and Bonikro and expect mining costs to reduce – mining cost to reduce accordingly. Associated reductions in employees and contractors will decrease by around 1,950 people.

In corporate, we've reduced head count by 250, and this will give savings of about A$40 million per annum. From a business perspective, we continue to look at all operating and capital costs with an aim to achieve further reductions.

Let's just turn the page to page 24. Group guidance remains 2 million to 2.3 million ounces of gold and 75,000 to 85,000 tonnes of copper. We expect to deliver this at an all-in sustaining cost of A$2.5 billion to A$2.7 billion, equating to around A$1,200 an ounce all-in sustaining cost.

Capital expenditure will be around A$1 billion, 70% of which is spent at Cadia Valley and Lihir. This includes A$340 million to A$380 million range for Cadia East Panel Cave 2, and A$355 million to A$410 million for sustaining CapEx, and A$200 million to A$220 million for production stripping. This compares to the much larger capital expenditure of A$1.9 billion CapEx in financial year 2014.

Exploration expenditure will be A$80 million to A$95 million, a significant reduction from the A$152 million in 2013. As previously stated, these guidance ranges are expected to deliver a positive group free cash flow at A$1,450 an ounce. Should the market environment change, further management action will be taken to seek and ensure the group is free cash flow neutral or positive which could change these guidance ranges.

Moving on to the next page. This really covers the specific production guidance. These numbers match what was presented in the quarterly results with the exception of silver production guidance has been added of 1.2 million to 1.5 million ounces.

Turn the page to page 26. Capital expenditure around A$1 billion will be significantly lower than financial year 2013. The largest components, as stated for capital in financial year 2014, is the Cadia East Panel Cave 2 and that's illustrated on the pie on the right-hand side. Sustaining capital is maintained and stripping is reduced with the completion of the Telfer and Bonikro stripping contracts during the early part of the year.

Turn to page to page 27. I want to start now with Lihir. There are a few slides on Lihir to get through. The operating strategy at Lihir has adapted to reflect this new market environment and maximize free cash flow. The focus is now on simplification and reducing activity. Most of the on-site actions to efficiently transition to this model have already been completed. This means material movements are now around 35 million tonnes with significant processing of stockpiled ore.

In the newly expanded and refurbished processing plant, we will focus on further debottlenecking and optimization of constraints prior to any further capital investments and we'll continue to focus on further reliability improvements in the older parts of the plant.

Objectives for 2014 include gold production of 700,000 to 800,000 ounces of gold, all-in sustaining costs of A$965 million to A$1.060 billion. All-in sustaining costs will be approximately 30% higher than financial year 2013 and that's driven by the increase in gold production, stripping of A$140 million to A$155 million and sustaining capital of A$150 million to A$165 million. And lastly, there is an embedded accounting cost in the inventory of A$55 million.

In making this transition, we do maximize cash flow. In parallel to these operational changes, a key focus will be the community benefits package renegotiation, which is important for both Lihir and the community and will be managed to the benefit of all stakeholders.

Turning the page to page 28. I'd like to make a couple of comments in context of – in the Lihir context of where it fits within Newcrest's portfolio of assets. Lihir is a large-scale gold production asset that has a very long life and intermediate cost position and generates significant earnings for the group. Now that the plant expansion is complete and the refurbishment well progressed, Lihir is in a good position to operate for the future and it retains many options for future growth.

In context of the merger we purchased Lihir in September 2010 when gold prices were around US$1,200 and they were on the upswing. This was a scrip-based deal with significant shareholder overlap, and Lihir at the time represented 32% of the combined company market capitalization.

Moving forward to June 2013 the gold price is at around US$1,300 an ounce and has exhibited significant volatility. However Lihir remains around 30% of the combined company value, and we've added in that time another 20% to its reserve position since the merger. To state this clearly Newcrest is very pleased to have an expanded and now significantly more reliable Lihir in its portfolio.

Turning the page to page 29. We have now worked through and evaluated an extensive number of scenarios at Lihir, studied various operating possibilities, and mapped those to different market environments. This slide illustrates four of those possible scenarios ranging from high growth options appropriate for high gold price environments to cash flow focused scenarios more appropriate to a low gold price environment.

The extremes are a complete halt to mining activity with stockpile only processing at one end. And at the other end is a significant mining capital expenditure and the acceleration into the Kapit ore-body. Last year we were moving with the expansion scenario, delivering early on the 1 million ounce production, supported by significant material movement and continuing capital investment, particularly in the grinding and power optimization of the plant.

Following the fall in gold prices we've appropriately reassessed our strategy and implemented the sustained system scenario which simplifies the operation, extracts cash from stockpiles, maintains lower mining activity and stripping investment for the future production. The sustained – sorry, the sustained scenario, nice tongue twister, also delays the development of Kapit, which does postpone higher grade ore, but also delays significant capital expenditure in the medium term.

As you can see the 2014 plan is much simpler than what we planned last year with the reduced equipment use, material movement and capital investment. This allows us to increase medium-term positive free cash flow whilst maintaining our growth options.

Turning the page to Cadia on page 30. At Cadia Valley we've not changed our operating strategy. The project to expand the plant and establish Cadia East Panel Cave 1 has been completed and Cadia East is ramping up. With the development continuing at Panel Cave 1 and 2, our targets of 700,000 to 800,000 ounces in the next few years and 26 million tonnes from the Cadia East plant remain in place. Ridgeway will continue to operate around 8 million tonnes per annum and we will supplement with Cadia Hills' stockpiled ore while Cadia East ramps up providing that ore is cash flow generative.

Objectives for 2014 include gold production of 480,000 to 530,000 ounces all-in sustaining costs as stated, and capital expenditure of A$400 million to A$445 million, and this clearly is primarily on the development of Cadia East Lift 2.

Turning the page to Telfer. At Telfer the operating plants have evolved to remove higher cost ounces from the production profile and reduce cost and capital, principally stripping and equipment. Open pit activity will be reduced with work primarily in the Main Dome and very little in West Dome. The major stripping activity at Main Dome Stage 4 will be completed in financial year 2014.

The objectives for 2014 include the gold production of 400,000 to 450,000 ounces and you can see on the page the all-in sustaining costs which basically have a 30% reduction from financial year 2013. Capital expenditure is also listed on the page which really includes the remainder of stripping of Stage 4. Longer term, future stripping investments at Main Dome and West Dome will be dependent on the gold price.

Exploration work continues to evaluate potential extensions of the underground mine life, particularly around West Dome Deeps and the extension of the current Sub-Level Cave into the Vertical Stockwork Corridor.

Turning to Gosowong on page 32. At Gosowong, there has been no change to the operating strategy. Open pit activity has been completed and the plant feed will come from Kencana and Toguraci underground mines. Average mine grade will be similar to the reserve grade for the remainder of life in these mines. Options are being evaluated to extend mine life in each.

Objectives for 2014 are as stated on the page. All-in sustaining costs increased at Gosowong due to the production from the higher cost Toguraci underground mine. Longer term, the focus is on exploration activity to extend mine life at Gosowong. We've retained a positive view on the exploration potential and we will be investing about A$50 million in exploration around the mine in the 2014 financial year.

Turning the page to Hidden Valley, page 33. The operating plant at Hidden Valley is focused on reducing costs and improving efficiency. Now that the crusher is installed and the overland conveyor is actually ramping up, the focus is on optimizing the conveyor, removing the truck fleet, improving the plant recoveries and reducing costs. The cost profile at Hidden Valley must improve the operation to remain viable. To help facilitate these programs, the management team is now based near the mine, in country, PNG, in Lae.

Objectives to 2014 are as stated on the page where we expect a 20% reduction in the all-in sustaining cost. And you can see the capital expenditure of A$45 million to A$50 million, which will include A$20 million to A$25 million for stripping costs. The operational viability of Hidden Valley will be reassessed on an ongoing basis after we've implemented this improvement program.

Turning to page 34. At Bonikro, the focus is a stable operation and reducing costs. Production stripping is nearing completion and the cost reduction program is moving forward. The deferred plant expansion is preserved as an option for the future consideration, and the regional exploration evaluations are being done now.

Objectives for 2014 include gold of 80,000 to 95,000 ounces, and again, a significant reduction in the all-in sustaining cost of 30% from last year. Capital expenditure is A$25 million to A$30 million and includes A$17 million to A$20 million of stripping costs.

Longer term, we will focus on a stable operation at reduced costs at Bonikro. A growth option to expand the plant remains viable but has not been approved at this point.

Turning the page to page 35. In the current market environment, we will focus on production from our high-quality core assets at Cadia Valley, Lihir, Gosowong and defer studies in major capital expenditure where appropriate.

However, we retain our growth options for a period when the market conditions are more acceptable. The most important of these is Wafi-Golpu which will progress at a reduced spend level, focusing in 2014 on what is already being stated the reduced startup capital plan, the ore body knowledge, exploration drilling and stakeholder engagement and design work.

Namosi will also progress focusing on reduced startup capital, community engagement and some interesting exploration drilling. Lihir Kapit, as I've discussed in the Lihir plant, has been deferred. As discussed earlier, we've moved to a stockpile processing strategy. We continue to evaluate lower capital engineering options for Kapit and we could execute against that option at any time. Investment at Telfer, Bonikro and Hidden Valley all remain options should the market environment change.

Turning the page to page 36. Reduced exploration expenditure in 2014 of A$85 million focuses on Telfer, Gosowong and Wafi-Golpu. Telfer and Gosowong, the expenditure focuses on extending the mine life at each asset, while Wafi-Golpu continues to position it for the development and production in the future. Other Greenfield expenditure continues at reduced levels.

Turning the page to the medium-term outlook. The medium-term outlook for the company's production and costs really depends as we've stated our market conditions which at the present time remain volatile. This slide summarizes comments already made throughout the presentation. So in summary, Cadia Valley remains a low-cost producer and continues on its existing business plan to production numbers on the slide.

Lihir is focused on optimizing the current investment in the processing plant reducing capital expenditure and operating costs and maximizing free cash flow. Future investments will depend on the operations performance and market conditions.

Telfer remains a high-cost operation. In the medium term, cash flow is maximized by producing from the Main Dome open pit ore after a significant stripping campaign and from the current Sub-Level Cave. Future investments will depend on the external market conditions.

Gosowong is a low-cost producer. Medium-term production will be from the Toguraci and Kencana underground mines. Longer-term production will depend on exploration success.

Bonikro and Hidden Valley are both focused on cost reduction programs and improved reliability. Both assets retain growth options dependent on market conditions.

Final slide, folks, page 38. In summary, I'd like to reiterate some of the key points. Cadia Valley and the Lihir plant expansion are both delivering and our major investment cycle is almost complete with the remaining one, obviously, the Cadia East Panel Cave 2.

Following the size of an early action in response to metal price declines, Newcrest is now well positioned for a lower gold price environment. We have balance sheet with gearing of just under 30% and liquidity of around A$950 million in cash and undrawn facilities. Our production growth options are preserved. With the increased commodity market volatility in the short to medium term, we'll focus on cash flow maximization in preference to production growth.

In exploration, we'll focus on extending mine life at Gosowong and Telfer and continuing our pre-feasibility optimization at Wafi-Golpu. During the next six months, we'll complete our normal reserves and resource update process, which will take into account current market conditions relative to Newcrest's assumptions which are outlined in the paper.

As a final comment, if market conditions do change, we will take further actions to preserve our cash flow position.

Thank you for your time and I'd now open it up to questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Cathy Moises from Evans & Partners. Please go ahead, Cathy.

Good morning, Greg. Just three very quick questions. What will the capital spend be on Wafi in 2014? Could you run through the rationale behind the increasing your directives from 2010 to 2011 given the cost savings ongoing at the moment and is there any physical tax to be paid in the 2014 year?

Okay. So on Wafi, the current budget at the moment is A$100 million capital for 100%, so 50% our share. And that is split, obviously, between the exploration, the study's metallurgical work and the community discussion – the government and community discussion.

The rationale of putting another Director on the Board is really about a longer-term Board renewal and that's all I'll say about that. And then on tax, I'm going to hand it to our Finance Director.

Hi, Cathy. No tax payable in Australia, but there will be in relation to our offshore operations.

Full tax rate in the offshore as per usual?

No change in the tax rate in offshore. No.

Fantastic. Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Peter Harris from JCP Investment Partners. Please go ahead, Peter.

Thank you for the presentation. Just on Lihir and the difference between the current strategy and the previous 2012 outlook, given just the grade and the SAG mill capacity and the current autoclave set up at the plant, you had to spend more on more grind and more float to actually get to 1 million ounces. Is that what sort of caused a bit of confusion last year with, you know, MOPU was a bit of a misnomer where you probably couldn't get to 1 million ounces without spending a bit more CapEx? Is that sort of the difference in the strategy now or is it more about mining rates?

So it's a combination of both, Peter. If we mine faster, we're able – and stockpile, we're able to selectively take grade. But the grinding rate, the current constraint in the plant is the level of grinding. Floatation is adequate at the sort of the 9-million tonne rate, but the grinding rate would have to have lifted to 14 million tonnes, and what we're doing at the moment is optimizing that. So I think we're currently in this plant at about 11.5 million tonnes, we'll optimize that as high as we can go. The prior plan had excess power and grinding to deliver a 14 million tonne grind level.

Thank you very much.

The next question comes from Brendan Fitzpatrick from Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Could I just follow up on that comment on the grinding. When we look at the Lihir process plant, is there any component of the volume which doesn't need to be ground that can be put through either the float grade or the high-grade circuit?

No. It's still got to be ground. So you've still got to grind those. And if it goes to float all you're doing is taking waste out, the mass out, and increasing the grade as it goes towards the pressure oxidation circuit. The direct feed in the high-grade circuit is still ground, but it then flows straight to the high grade – from the high-grade circuit to the pressure oxidation circuit.

Okay that's clear. And on the comment about the total volume moved at Lihir, 30 million to 35 million tonnes, are we able to clarify the waste volume or a strip ratio on the mine volumes within that amount?

I think the – there is a heavy degree of stripping in this year's plan so the predominant amount is stripping on Cutback 9. The rest of the movement is stockpile movement to the mill or moving some stockpile from the mine to the – sorry, moving some material from the mine to the stockpile.

Okay that's great. Thank you.

The next question comes from Stephen Gorenstein from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hi guys. This is probably a question for Gerard. Just a quick question on the move to [ph] IFRIC-IFRS (46:42) accounting. Can you just sort of run through what impact that might have, specifically the strip ratios that you're currently on and versus the remaining life of mine strip ratios?

Yeah thanks, Stephen. I mean the strip ratios themselves don't change, but it informs the accounting thereof. You'll be familiar with the fact that we start to report under IFRIC in our next financial year and the relevant balance for that calculation is what were the deferred stripping balances on the 1 of July last year, because it fits our prior year comparator.

We at that point in time, I think we had about A$300 million of deferred stripping on the balance sheet, you'll see it there. We're still doing the calculation as to what impact that will have on the carryforward balances and the current expectation is that it could be in the order of A$1,900 million, which would be taken through retained earnings on the opening balance sheet.

Thanks very much. That's great.

The next question comes from Paul Hissey from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Hi guys. I wanted to ask you a couple of questions about Telfer if I can. First of all I just notice in the notes here, you've got the fair value of the asset, and you've got sort of 18% plus 9% sort of unmined resource and exploration. Is that included in your current fair value or prior to the impairment? And can you just sort of explain what that is please?

So it is included in the current valuation. And it goes to the fact that there is a very significant resource at Telfer, albeit it's a very high cost mine. So the current plan is to take out the physical open pit and underground cutbacks in the open pit and the Sub-Level Cave development.

And then it looks at the rest of the resource. So the Vertical Stockwork and potentially what's left in the pit and puts a A$15 per ounce valuation on that. And that is the remaining value for the asset. So that is the aggregation of everything that takes you to that circa rough number of A$800 million.

All right okay. So that would also represent value beyond the 2018 sort of slated cessation of mining in Main Dome and Telfer? [indiscernible] (49:14).

Absolutely. It's sort of like a price option on those future resources. We're not committing to capital and projects beyond the mine life. But what we're saying is that those ounces currently are economic in a resource evaluation and that they are worth money and that is part – that forms part of the valuation.

Okay. And just on the stripping at Telfer for the year ahead, I mean it's another – it looks like that number is coming off significantly. Is it fair to expect that sort of beyond this year, stripping capital investment and stripping at Telfer sort of falls to almost zero? Just trying to get a feel for – if you really had to turn the screws on that operation and turn the tap off on that additional capitalized waste movement, what the sensitivity to the remaining reserves is?

It becomes very low and that is correct. So the main stripping component at Lihir for Cutback 4 has been completed – sorry, Telfer. I'm using the wrong word. Cutback 4 at Telfer is completed. And the real benefit for us on a cash flow basis is we have low stripping over that next three-year period from the Main Dome.

So it could effectively become sort of just a cash harvesting asset from that point?

That is the strategy.

Okay. And perhaps just two more questions if I may. First of all the A$177 million inventory write-down, can you just outline that a bit please?

Gerard?

Sure. No as we did the valuation, we looked at recoverability of the inventories at the prevailing price. You can see where it – in the notes into the release, we've articulated its composition is primarily at Telfer, a little – for about A$106 million of that, A$50 million at Lihir and A$21 million in relation to West Africa.

Low grade stockpiles?

Sorry?

And that – so that would effectively be low grade stockpiles which are no longer economic?

Correct.

Yes.

So it's just an assessment of those.

Yes. Okay. And [audio gap] (51:36) for me on the credit rating. I think one of the agencies downgraded you guys throughout the quarter. And you stated that there was sort of no adverse impact as a result of that. Any adverse impact if you're unlikely to sort of take another downgrading in rating?

Well – sorry, Gerard here. I mean no rating alters the price of any existing debt facilities or their availability. It more goes to the extent to which you seek to raise new money in the bond market. Obviously that's where the market might look to the rating and price differently as to what they had done in the past. So that's – if that is to happen that will be held – it will manifest itself as a cost to us.

Okay. Only any new debt. All right. No worries. Thank you.

The next question is from Michael Slifirski from Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you. I want to start with a sort of disclosure guidance question specifically providing to the five-year guidance and the fact that there really is none compared to pretty good guidance that you've given us in the past. So what I want to understand, please, is why is it so vague? Is that because you're now feeling you need to be a lot more circumspect for fear of putting guidance that might be misused or misinterpreted? Or is it that you simply have no idea what the next five years might hold, and that specifically that reserves might make adjustment and, therefore, any guidance you give now might be compromised by a year-end reserve adjustment?

Interesting question, Michael. Look, first comment is we're in an environment of increased volatility, very high volatility. We've done a lot of disclosure, I think, in reserves, resources and the options the group has around future production. We're just choosing not to be as specific about the decisions that we would make over that five-year period. What we want people to understand is the choices we can make, and as we make them, we will obviously disclose them and again, it will depend very much on the gold price and the margins of our businesses on when we make those decisions.

Now, I think we were in a very different environment last year, as I said in the presentation. Forecasts for 2014 last year were for $1,800 gold. Now, for Newcrest, we certainly didn't manage our business with that forecast but that represented over $1,800 million difference in revenue. That's a very significant cash flow to us that, again, our forecast basis is foregone. So as we look at the future prices and we think about where they're going and the volatility we're in, we're just not prepared to step out for five years and give guidance where things could change quite dramatically.

Okay, thank you. Well specifically with respect to reserves and the write-downs you've taken does that presume any change in reserves that might occur at year-end and therefore a change in perhaps, well cut-off grades that might drive that and any sort of change in strip ratios that could quite dramatically change the plan for those high cost operations?

So Michael, we are going to do that work. You understand that there's a lot of technical work behind that, so we need to do all the physical planning for the undergrounds and open pits under different price scenarios and different technical assumptions to really understand exactly what those impacts will be.

Our current reserve position is done at market prices that are the same as or lower than current spot prices today. So on a theoretical basis, our reserve and resource positions look strong, but we will again look very carefully at all those prices, the cost algorithms, and all the physical drivers in the second half of this year. And we will make all of that, obviously, evident to everyone in the February half year.

If I made an overall comment, clearly, the pressure points are on the high-cost operations where the major impairments have been taken. So again, those operations have been done at the prices that I've talked about which are below current spot prices. So again, I think we'll just go through that process and certainly make those disclosures when that work's finished.

Understood, thank you, and two other very small ones if I may. Hidden Valley, is there a cash subsidy that you're unwilling to accede beyond which care and maintenance becomes a better option than persisting if you can't get it to cash break even?

We haven't agreed a number, Michael, but you could assume if it's in the tens, it's something that we're working hard to make zero. And the current plan is that it breaks even. If it's turning into substantially larger numbers than that, then we would act harder and faster.

Okay, thank you. And then finally, with respect to the Kapit, my recollection was that the feasibility work was meant to be completed around midyear. Did that stop or was there an outcome from that in terms of what the engineering solution for the Coffer Dam might look like and cost?

We've given ourselves more time on that, Michael. So I think the technical solutions we had were very straightforward, Coffer Dam, open pit, inclined angles, all the rest of it, they were very straightforward. But in delaying Kapit, we get two – I think three advantages. One is we get a chance to really look even more closely at all of those engineering solutions. Number two we let the project will settle where it's going settle. I think the rapid decline in project commitments is flowing through the contracting world and all the design world. And we don't want to be committing to any major projects until we see where the bottom of that cycle actually is.

And the third thing that I would say is that the site needs a period of simplification. And it just needs to have less people on sites. No projects and a complete focus on the mine and the plant optimization before we take the next step. We haven't actually destroyed any of their options. What we've done is just delay our execution of them.

Thank you, Greg.

The next question comes from Brenton Saunders from BT Investment Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning. My question is just an extension on the credit rating one and it relates really to quite a simple issue. What provisions or plans are being made to meet the 2015 repayment obligation within the context of planning to hopefully break even this year and, we haven't got guidance for 2015 but it's only really a six-month event. What provisions are being made to meet that A$1.6 billion payment in 2015 if you've only got A$900 million of undrawn facilities and are hoping really to break even between now and then?

Brendan, Gerard here. I'll take that. September 2015 is the first period of which our existing bilateral facilities or the first part of them come up for renewal. That's two years and three months away. So we have some time. This time last year we faced the same issue as we approached the expiry of an existing facility and we since – we commenced a renewal process with our amenders closer to the time. I mean there are a number other options we can employ to reduce that refinancing risk, but you can be sure that it's something that we pay close attention to. We certainly don't let it get to the wire.

I guess just to be more blunt and to the point. It just – at current sort of run rates and projections, it seems unlikely that you'll be able to refinance that at much higher rates. And if you get downgraded, it's going to be even more expensive. So what are the more specifics around meeting something that is verging on twice your existing undrawn credit facility, and that's really just to extend your debt. And I suppose I'm asking this question within the context of your objectives of reducing gearing between now and then.

Yeah. I mean the – one of the key impacts – sorry, the key factors that will drive the balance of that first amount of bilateral bank debt that comes up for renewal will be the cash flow generated in the 2015 financial year. And of course we haven't made any projections as to it.

But for the reasons that Greg's mentioned in relation to Cadia East in particular, we do see increased levels of production coming from our lowest cost producer over the period. And that will certainly help increase the amount of cash flow that we'll have available for refinancing.

But rolling of a bank debt facility, you don't have to get it down to renewal before you refinance, banks from the business of lending. So at this point in time we don't anticipate any problems.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Paul Phillips from Perennial. Please go ahead, Paul.

Hi guys. Just probably a bit of a follow-up to Brenton's question. If you think about that June 6 release that you put out, you talked about having the balance sheet as an insurance policy. Obviously you had potential improvement with the operations as well to act as an insurance policy. It seems like now we've removed one of those options. And the other option – the other insurance policy is being acted on at the moment.

How comfortable are you as a management team that you have enough insurance in place if you like? And probably would like a bit more specific details in terms of the – if the price was to fall by $100, what's going to happen? If it was to rise by $100, what's going to happen?

So look I think to put this to bed a bit, number one, prices, exchange rates, costs are all generally very correlated over a period of 12 to 24 months.

Generally financing liquidity is to bridge yourself through extreme circumstances where they go out of alignment. And I think we saw one of those circumstances earlier this year where the gold price was falling rapidly, the A$ was staying very high. And so ultimately revenue and costs were high in Australia. And we saw a, sort of quite a big margin squeeze on the gold sector.

And you know our stated strategy is obviously to have financial liquidity and gearing at a level where we have a buffer to those sort of outcomes. We in our liquidity objective sort of look to have about A$1 billion of liquidity on the balance sheet. And we retain that sort of capacity and that ability to hold that liquidity is something that we will do going forward.

If we looked at the business, and you're asking the question that if gold prices decline further, what would you do? Well the answer is we would do more to reduce anything that is a loss operation. So we're not going to run operations that are just going to lose us money. So number one, it becomes a painful process. But if costs stay high, gold prices fall lower, we will look to reduce those loss-making operations.

The second thing we'll do is we will always look at our capital. So again it becomes a question of growth capital exploration in other areas where for a period, we may reduce that further. And then it really gets back to your operating cost profile. So again in very low gold prices, and when you're looking at your contractual arrangements, you're looking at your labor costs and all the rest of it, you take a weather eye to that. And again you reduce those costs.

So I think the actions that we've taken so far would continue. And that is the same for every gold company out there. And again remember that most of these correlations over time hold true. So really what you're trying to do is bridge the period.

For Newcrest we do not have refinance risk in this next 18 months to two years. I think it's over two years. The bilateral facilities are normal corporate facilities. That's a facility that every corporation has. We draw them, we pay them back, and the banks are long term relationships and have had those facilities with the company for a very long time period. And our ratios are strong. And our actions and our ability to act on our business are very good. And so we are comfortable where we are at the moment.

Okay. The – there's a couple of points there that A$1 billion of liquidity through a bilateral facility, if the gold price was to fall then that may not actually be available to you in the event that you [ph] start operation (01:06:22) covenants, you'd have to renegotiate those. And the other one is around currency and the gold price would – I agree, over the longer term it does hold true. At current levels though, you'd still say it was elevated in Australian dollar terms.

Paul, I can't do much more than tell you what I've already told you. But again in different price environments we will be acting on both operations, costs and capital to ensure the integrity of our balance sheet.

Just one other question then on Lihir, on the milling rate that you talked about with Peter earlier on in the call. The guidance that was given at the site visit there last year suggested that in 2013, we'd have milling rates of 14.5 million tonnes and in 2014 we'd have 16 million tonnes. Can you just explain why the difference between the 14.5 million tonnes that we're meant to have at the end of FY 2013 and the 11.5 million tonnes that you mentioned to Peter?

The original plan actually had substantial capital built into increasing the grinding at the front end of the mill. So it actually in the end of 2013 and 2014 had an expansion of that process. And that was what was actually illustrated on site. So that capital is not being invested. And my objective at the moment with this site is to optimize the current grinding circuit and just see how far we can take it before we spend any capital to actually expand it further. [audio gap]

(1:08:08)

Sorry about that everyone. I don't know what happened there. We've got a bit of a storm here in Melbourne. So we're back anyway. Are there any other questions, operator?

Yes sir. Two more questions. The next in line is from Mathew Hodge from Morningstar. Please go ahead, Mathew.

Hi, Greg. I was interested in slide 8 of the presentation where you show exploration expenditure in light of the discoveries. I was wondering if you could talk a bit more about what you're seeing on the supply side in terms of a response in the current environment? And if you can see many new projects at all going ahead in this kind of price environment?

Mathew, sorry, the first question on the supply side, you're just talking about what's happening in the drilling world or providers of services to exploration? Is that...

Well I'm interested in I guess the drilling side is where the long term discoveries are going to come from and that's where long term production is. But also I'm interested in project approvals globally and perhaps some mine closure so more in the short term. What you think is going to happen on the supply side in this kind of price environment?

Gold supply, right okay, I've got you. Okay. Well I think everyone can see where the industry supply cost curves are for the gold industry. And we know that where average cash costs are and all-in costs are now, because most people are starting to report against the World Gold Council standard.

And I would say that there is a reasonable percentage of mines that are currently outside of the current spot price. And so again I think for all of those mines in the short term, it's really about cost reduction or assessing whether you keep the mine open. So again I think on the supply side, I certainly wouldn't expect dramatic growth in supply. And I think under the current price scenario, you'd expect that the supply side is under pressure.

On the exploration side the lifeblood of gold still remains doing your exploration. You've still got to make sure that you make discoveries, or you extend your current operations around brownfield extensions. And we see that we've certainly pared back to what we think is important. But again the great value drivers for a company like ours are making discoveries or getting in very early on new discoveries.

So we will continue to focus on that as a core strategy for the company. It's just in the next 12 months we're going to pare back to a lower level of activity.

The next question comes from Daniel Seeney from Citigroup. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good day, guys. Just a couple of quick ones. Just wondering in a higher gold price environment, which of the growth projects would be the first to come back off the shelf?

The – that's a good question. I hadn't actually thought about that one in context of today. But I think again we'd look hard at Lihir. We'd look very hard at the plant capacity areas particularly around the grinding,. And we'd look at the material movement back in the pit and the timing of when we went for Kapit, because the [ph] plumbing (01:11:37) Kapit is still very attractive. That very high-grade area there is attractive.

I think we'd definitely look at a pretty simple little plant expansion in Bonikro. I think that becomes attractive. And I think again we'd look very carefully at the next Cutbacks on Telfer, because I think those within the context of producing here in next four to five years, at some point we'll get to a scenario where we will be able to assess the cost and price environment for those CapEx on Telfer.

Okay, great. Thanks. And just a second one, with regards to all the impairment charges that have been put through, I mean, you noted the compression in earnings multiples that we've seen in gold stocks generally. Can I ask what multiples have been adopted in arriving at those revised valuations?

There are no multiples. They are one, multiplied by one.

Okay. So just an NPV type?

Yeah.

Thank you very much.

The next question comes from Paul Hissey from Goldman Sachs.

Sorry to take a second bite of the cherry guys, I just wanted to ask one quick question. About 2,000 people coming out of your, sort of, operations work force, to what extent could that impact productivity? And if the answer is not much, how many more people – at what point, if you had to reduce your labor count even further would it start to impact your productivity?

Yeah. Paul, just look carefully on that page, it's always a risk when you put these numbers there. But a lot of those contractors are associated with the stripping contracts that were sitting on Telfer and Bonikro. And so those stripping contracts, the one at Telfer has now finished, and the Bonikro one is also finished, so we're now down to our ore sources. And also at Cadia East there are some of those in contract numbers there. So a lot of it – what the illustration on that slide was much more about the level of activity last year for the company versus the level of activity this year. We are certainly looking carefully at all the head count per site and we think we're running pretty lean ships there. And we're looking at obviously all the contracts, the supply contracts per site and also looking to see whether we can renegotiate all of those at lower levels. But I think if we would have cut heads more dramatically, again, I think it would start to impact our productivity.

Okay, that'll do. Thanks.

The next question comes from Joseph Kim of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi, Greg. Just back to the milling question, you have about 9 million tonnes of flotation capacity now. Are you planning to fully utilize that 9 million tonnes this year?

Yes. In the short term, we'll definitely be using capacity on that because we'll be taking the – we'll be taking as much of that stockpile material through that process.

Okay. So I suspect there's not much capacity to feed the higher grade ore without feeding it through the floatation first.

No. High grade doesn't go through that floatation. So it's the low-grade mills that go through the floatation.

Okay, great. Thanks.

The next and final question comes from Paul Phillips from Perennial Group. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Sorry, Greg. You got cut off during the answer to my last question about the milling rates and the 11.5 million tonnes versus the 4.5 million tonnes run rate that you've previously guided to. Just curious – I'm still trying to reconcile it in my head given that it was sort of only, well, I suppose it's – what, 10 months ago since we're on-site. But given that the investment was meant to have largely been made by the end of the year, what's changed?

So, obviously, a lot's changed in the prices. And a lot has changed in the thought around where we are with the stockpile and utilization of that stockpile. We really looked carefully, very carefully, earlier this year around what we thought the milling rates could get to on an organic basis and then what we would need to do to invest which was in the plan last year to build more milling capacity to take it to 14 million tonnes.

And we just made a decision that we would delay that capital and we would leave the milling rates at the 11.5 million tonnes, ultimately 12 million tonnes, perhaps better as we optimize it. And then when we need this, we will probably expand that milling capacity down the track. But it was a decision on cash flow and a decision to delay capital versus short term cash flow benefits.

Right. So in terms – so is the milling capacity related at all to the fact that you're now trading stockpiles and so therefore you're going to be trading more probably different types of material?

It's more related to conserving capital and increasing the cash flow from Lihir in the short term, Paul.

Okay. Okay, to actually reactivate that capital then, what would be required?

We would just have to make a decision. I mean, two points I'd make on that. Number one is, I'd like to finish the optimization to see where the final number is on the milling. And number two is, we could reactivate that capital anytime because it really is just about – and I won't go through all the technical definitions, but it is basically just building a bit more capacity in the grinding and milling circuit.

It would just be a capital decision to put very straightforward technology in there under a short term scenario to increase that capacity which was what we had in that plan last year. But we've made the decision not to do that under the cash conservation. And again, we see that as a better cash flow outcome for the site in the short to medium term. And again, we'll make that decision once we've seen the final optimization of that milling circuit.

Okay, thanks.

There are currently no further questions at this time. Mr. Robinson, I'll now hand it back to you.

All right. Look, thanks everyone. I know that's been a very long call and a very detailed call. I appreciate everyone's efforts. It has been a – it's been a very big year for us in 2013. And clearly, we've changed external environments, we have changed our plans and our emphasis for next year. We have retained all of our options to again to be able to expand our business at an appropriate time. But our strategy at the moment is very much on that cash flow maximization and executing against the plans that we have outlined today. So again, thank you for everyone attending on what has been a very long call and I look forward to talking to you in the short – in the near future. Thank you.