corrected transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 13, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Carlisa and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fiscal Year 2005 Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year-end


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions.] Mr. Lou Silverman, you may begin your conference.


Louis E. Silverman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Carlisa, and welcome to Quality System’s fiscal 2005 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end


conference call. Paul Holt, our CFO; Greg Flynn, Executive Vice President and General Manager


of our QSI division; and Pat Cline, President of our NextGen Healthcare Information Systems


division once again join me this afternoon’s call.


Please note that the comments made on this call may include statements that are forward-looking


within the meaning of the securities laws including without limitation statements related to


anticipated industry trends; the company’s plans, products, and strategies; projected operating


results; capital initiatives and the implementation; and potential impact of legal, regulatory, and


accounting requirements. Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations and


projections and you should refer to our SEC filings including our Forms 10-K and 10-Q for


discussions of the risk factors, management’s discussion and analysis, and other information that


could impact our actual performance. We undertake no obligation to update any projections or


forward-looking statements in the future. Also please continue to note that the company’s past


performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance.


I will now provide some summary of financial data; Paul Holt will follow with additional details. For


the quarter, the company set new revenue and earnings per share records. In the March quarter


revenue totaled 20.5 million, up approximately 36% over the prior year. Fully diluted earnings per


share at $0.36 exceeded prior year earnings per share by 50%.


The quarter’s top line results were driven by record revenue performance in NextGen, the 21.8


million in revenue attained by the division for the quarter represents a 48% year-over-year increase.


The QSI division’s 3.7 million in quarterly revenue represents a 12% year-over-year decline. The


company profitability for the quarter was impacted by strong performance in the NextGen division,


which had operating income of 7.9 million approximately 65% increase over prior year.


We had a 30% year-over-year drop in operating income at the QSI division. We experienced some


significant increase in corporate expenditures for the quarter, which modeled on a year-over-year


basis to approximately $2 million. It should come as no surprise that expenses related to the


Sarbanes 404 process was the principal driver of the year-over-year increase. And we also had a


reduction in the company’s effective tax rate for the quarter driven by some of our R&D tax credit


initiatives.


EDI revenue for the quarter came in at just under 2.9 million, up 32% prior year. EDI grew 86%


year-over-year in the NextGen Division and declined 8% on a year-over-year basis at the QSI


Division. I’ll once again remind listeners that EDI revenue is reported as part of divisional revenue


totaled each quarter.


Looking at fiscal 2005 as a whole, total company revenue increased approximately 25% to 89.


Fully diluted earnings per share increased approximately 53% or $0.80 per share in fiscal 2004 to


$1.22 a share in both 2005. Fiscal 2005 revenue for NextGen 35% to 73.6 million and the division


grew to the point where it accounted for 83% of total company revenue for the fiscal year.
corrected transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 13, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the QSI division fiscal 2005 revenue declined by 7% from 16.5 million to 15.4 million, operating


income for the year declined by approximately 15%. For fiscal 2005, corporate expenses increased


from about $4 million to about 5.5 million, and as I mentioned higher professional services fees


were the most significant contributors to this increase with Sarbanes 404 expenses accounting for


much of the year-over-year increase.


Cash and cash equivalents were at 51.2 million at yearend incorporating a nearly $20 million one


time dividend paid to shareholders during the month of March. DSOs increased to 119 days at


fiscal year-end from 115 days at the December quarter-end and 99 days at the conclusion of the


prior fiscal year. Our staff will be working over the ensuing quarters towards turning this trend


around.


Full time employee headcount at fiscal yearend was 390 taken with revenues for the quarter this


generated annualized revenue for full time employee of $262,000, which is at the higher end of our


historical range. There were no stock repurchases during the quarter or the fiscal year, note that


the company’s stock repurchase authorization expired in September of 2003.


The status of our ongoing acquisition evaluation process continues unchanged. We will actively


pursue opportunities of strategic significance that also represent a good financial fit for us. Absent


those characteristics we will remain patient and continue to focus on our organic growth. As I have


mentioned on prior calls we are not interested in just doing a deal for the sake of just doing a deal.


During the course of fiscal 2004 and 2005 and continuing on through to date the topic of executive


compensation including programs involving equity based compensation has been and continues to


be the subject of study by the company’s Compensation Committee. The Committee and the


Board of Directors continue to work on this important issue.


Since our last conference call, the company participated in the UBS Conference, the Roth Capital


Conference, the B. Riley Conference, the Sidoti Conference, and most recently the Friedman,


Billings, Ramsey Conference. We plan to participate in the Thomas Weisel Conference in San


Francisco later on this week. Additionally, since the last conference call, the company has met with


investment professionals in Los Angeles, San Diego, New York City, Toronto, and Montreal.


Summarizing some of our more recent announcements. We talked about the dividend. We did our


2-for-1 stock split effective mid-March. We announced our partnership with Siemens. And we also


announced the addition of Pat Cline and myself to the company’s Broad of Directors, which – that


was done at the May 25th Board meeting.


In closing my prepared comments for this afternoon’s call, I have the pleasure once again pointing


out that the performance of the company has exceeded our internal expectations and it’s again with


great pleasure that I thank the individuals joining me on this call and our entire team for their


leadership and performance during the year. The shared successes of our clients and


shareholders are the results of your skill and dedication.


I also want to clearly point out again to current and/or prospective analysts and investors that while


we are pleased with the company’s performance during the quarter and the year, there are


absolutely no guarantees that the company or either of its divisions will exceed or even sustain their


level of performance in future periods. It’s possible that our performance will encourage investors


or analysts to set new short, medium, or long-term expectations for the company. In response to


this possibility, please continue to note that we do not give out financial guidance to the investment


community and we do not comment on the guidance advanced by members of the financial


community.


I will now turn the call over to Paul Holt, CFO for additional financial details on the quarter.