raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Kristie [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator today. At


this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Second Quarter Fiscal 2006 Earnings Results


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers remarks there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Mr.


Silverman, you may begin your conference


Louis E. Silverman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Kristie and welcome everyone to Quality Systems fiscal 2006 second quarter


conference call. Paul Holt, our CFO; Greg Flynn, our Executive Vice President and General


Manager of the QSI division; and Pat Cline, President of our NextGen Healthcare Information


Systems division once again join me on this afternoon's call.


Please note that the comments made on this call may include statements that are forward-looking


within the meaning of the securities laws including without limitation statements related to


anticipated industry trends; the company’s plans, products, and strategies; projected operating


results; capital initiatives and the implementation; and potential impact of legal, regulatory, and


accounting requirements. Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations and


projections and you should refer to our SEC filings including our Forms 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q for


discussions of the risk factors, management discussion and analysis, and other information that


could impact our actual performance. We undertake no obligation to update any projections or


forward-looking statements in the future. And also please continue to note that the company’s past


performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance.


I'll now provide summary qualitative and quantitative comments on the quarter and Paul, Greg and


Pat will follow with additional details. For the quarter, the company set new revenue and earnings


per share records. In the September quarter revenue totaled 29.5 million, up approximately 39%


over the prior year. Fully diluted earnings per share at $0.43 exceeded prior year earnings of $0.28


per share by 54%.


The quarter's top line results were driven by record revenue at the NextGen division, the 25.5


million in revenue attained by the division for the quarter represents a 48% year-over-year increase.


The QSI division's 4 million in quarter revenue is about even with prior year performance. The


company profitability for the quarter was positively impacted by both divisions.


The NextGen reported operating income of 9.9 [ph] million, a 62% increase over prior year while


the QSI divisions reported operating income increased $160,000 on a year-over-year basis. Also


impacting overall company profitability with a nearly $300,000 year-over-year increase in interest


income and a $900,000 year-over-year increase in corporate office expense levels. Note that


approximately half of the year-over-year increase in corporate spending levels was driven by the


contested proxy situation; more on that topic in a few minutes.


EDI revenue for the quarter came in at 3.2 million, up 23% over the prior year though less than I


would have liked to have seen. EDI grew 48% on a year-over-year basis at the NextGen division


and declined 6% on a year-over-year basis at the QSI division. I'll once again remind listeners that


EDI revenue is reported as a part of divisional revenue totals each quarter in each division.


Cash and cash equivalent were at 63.1 million at quarter-end, up from 57.5 million last quarter.


Full time employee headcount at quarter-end was 455, up from 417 in the prior quarter and 358 in


the prior year. Taken as revenues for the quarter, the 455 employees that we had at quarter-end
raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


generated annualized revenue per full time employee of $260,000, which is at the higher end of our


historical range.


A few items concerning our recent Annual Shareholder Meeting and proxy contests. On September


21, 2005, the company held its Annual Shareholder Meeting. As many of you know, two of the four


items to be voted on by the shareholders were the subject of a contesting proxy filing from


shareholder and Director Ahmed Hussein. On October 11, the company announced the certified


results received from the Independent Inspector of Elections which confirmed the election of


directors Pat Cline, Maury DeWald, Vince Love, Sheldon Razin, and myself from the company’s


slate and the election of Ahmed Hussein and Ibrahim Fauzi [ph] from the Hussein slate.


In addition, the proposed 2005 Stock Option and Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders, as


was the expansion in the number of authorized shares from 20 million to 50 million. Grant Thornton


was ratified as the company’s auditors. On October 26, the company and those individual directors


elected to the Board from the company slate were informed that they were being sued by Mr.


Hussein over the election results certified by the Independent Inspector of Election. The complaint


alleges that the result from the Independent Inspector of Election included certain proxies that


should not have been included in the final vote tabulation. The Independent Inspector certified the


aforementioned result after hearing Mr. Hussein's claim concerning the matter. Attorneys


representing the company as well as the individual named directors are currently preparing for


upcoming hearings as indicated in our 8-K filing, the company believes that Mr. Hussein's claims


lack merit and the results certified by the Independent Inspector of Elections are conclusive of this


matter. The company intends to depend itself vigorously.


The current and prospective shareholders should know that the company will continue doing to


incur incremental expense as a result of Mr. Hussein's filed complaint and may incur additional


expense based on Mr. Hussein's future action, if any. There remains premature speculate on the


entirety of Mr. Hussein's actions or the magnitude of expense to be incurred by the Company. I am


extremely appreciative of our operating teams continued focus on the fundamentals of our business


throughout the aforementioned processes.


The status of our ongoing acquisition and evaluation process continues unchanged from prior calls.


During the quarter, the Company participated in the UBS and Sidoti conferences and held meetings


with current and prospective investors in Houston, New York City, Philadelphia, Delaware, New


Jersey, Boston, San Francisco, and San Diego. I am pleased to announce that for the fifth


consecutive year, QSI was named to the Forbs Magazine 200 best small companies list. This year


we came in at number 11, up from number 32 in the prior year.


In closing my prepared comments for this afternoons call, it's once again my pleasure to point out


that the performance of the Company for the quarter has exceeded our internal expectations and I


would once again like to thank each and every individual on our team for their leadership and


performance during this quarter and beyond. I also want to clearly point out again to current and to


our prospective analyst and investors that while we are pleased with the Company's performance


during the quarter there are absolutely no guarantees that the Company or either of its division will


exceed or even sustain their level of performance in future period. It's possible that our


performance will encourage investors or analyst to set new short medium or long-term expectations


for the Company. And in response to this possibility please continue to note that we do not give out


financial guidance to the investment community and we do not comment on the guidance advanced


by members of the financial community.


I will now turn the call over to Paul Holt our CFO.