raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: If you would like to withdraw your question, press “*” then the number “2” on your


telephone keypad.


I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Louis Silverman, President and CEO of Quality Systems.


Please go ahead sir.


Louis E. Silverman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Shannon [ph] and welcome everyone to Quality Systems fiscal 2005 third quarter


conference call. Paul Holt, our CFO, Greg Flynn, Executive Vice President and General Manager


of our QSI Division, and Pat Cline, President of our NextGen Healthcare Information Systems


Division once again join me on this afternoon’s call. Please note that comments made on this call


may include statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Securities Laws,


including without limitation, statements related to anticipated industry trends, the company’s plans,


products, and strategies, projected operating results, capital initiatives and the impact of legal


regulatory and accounting requirements.


Actual events and results may differ materially from our expectations and projections, and you


should refer to our SEC Filings including our Forms 10-K and 10-Q for discussions of the risk


factors, management’s discussion and analysis and other information that could impact our actual


performance. We undertake no obligation to update any projections or forward-looking statements


in the future. And please note that the company’s past performance is not necessarily indicative of


future performance.


For the quarter, the company set new revenue and earnings records. In the December quarter,


revenue totaled $22.1 million, up 21% over the prior year. Fully diluted earnings of $0.64 per share


exceeded prior year fully diluted earnings per share of $0.40 by 60%. The quarter’s top-line results


were driven by record revenue performance at our NextGen division where the $18.3 million in


revenue attained by the division for the quarter represents a 31% year-over-year top-line increase.


The QSI Division had quarterly revenue of $3.7 million, which represented a 11% year-over-year


decline in top-line performance for that division. Companywide gross margins were very strong at


66%, which represents our highest level in recent years. Paul Holt will cover this item and others


during his prepared remarks for the quarter. Operating income for the quarter at NextGen came in


at a record $6.7 million, 78% ahead of the prior year performance. QSI Division operating income


declined approximately 23% on a year-over-year basis; so the operating margins for the division


came in at just under 28% for the quarter. Companywide SG&A expenses increased materially on


both a sequential and year-over-year basis.


Our EDI units set a record at $2.7 million in revenue for the quarter. I once again remind


participants that EDI revenue is reported as part of divisional revenue each quarter. Paul Holt will


break out divisional EDI totals for convenience later in the call. Corporate expenses for the quarter


came in at $1.3 million; that represents over a 30% year-over-year increase, as well as 14%


sequential increase, expenses in the corporate area continue to grow in response for the


company’s overall growth as well as external factors, such as Sarbanes-Oxley 404 internal control


compliance efforts. Cash and cash equivalents increased a record $66.4 million during the quarter;


up from $59.5 million in the prior quarter and $45.3 million in the prior year. Headcount at quarter


end was 367, which taken with the revenues for the quarter, generated annualized revenue per


employee of $240,000; note that this figure is not something we use as an internal management or


measurement tool. The quarter’s revenue per employee figure is, however, relatively consistent


with levels attained in the prior quarters. Company’s Board of Directors as recently announced
raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


authorized a $3 per share dividend to be effective for shareholders of record on February 24, 2005,


as all of the 2 for 1 stock splits that will become effective for shareholders of record on March 4,


2005.


Acquisition search activity continues and I will reiterate, as I have mentioned in prior calls, that we


are not interested in just queuing a deal for the sake of doing a deal. We will actively pursue


opportunity of strategic significance, that also represent a good financial set for us, absent those


characteristic, we will remain patient and continue to focus on organic growth. In the next couple of


weeks, the company will present at the UBS Conference in New York City and the Roth Capital


Conference here in Southern California. We are also scheduled to present at the Sidoti


Conference in New York City early April. Additional meetings [ph] with members of the investment


community are scheduled for four additional cities in the coming week. In closing our prepared


remarks for the morning, or actually I should say for the afternoon, I’d like to point out that the


performance for the company during this quarter, continued a set of quarters where our actual


performance has exceeded our internal expectations, at times by a fairly wide margin.


I want to again express my thanks to all members of our team for their contributions to the


company’s results. I also want to clearly point out the current and prospective analysts and


investors that while we are extremely pleased with the quarter’s performance, there are absolutely


no guarantees that the company or either of its divisions will exceed or even sustain the level of


performance turned in during the quarter.


It is possible that the quarter’s performance will encourage investors or analysts to set new short-,


medium-, or long-term expectations for the company. In response to this possibility, please


continue to note that we do not give out financial guidance. And we don’t comment on the


guidance advanced by members of the financial community.


I’ll now turn the call over to Paul Holt, our CFO for additional financial details on the quarter.


Paul A. Holt, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Lou and hello everyone. We are continuing to see growth in both of our revenue


categories, system sales and maintenance and other. Our consolidated system sales rose to $11.7


million this quarter, that’s an 18% increase compared to the prior year at $9.9 million. Maintenance


and other revenues rose 25% to $10.4 million compared to $8.3 million in the year ago quarter. A


very low level of hardware and third-party software included in system sales resulted in our


consolidated gross profit margin this quarter coming in at the highest we’ve seen in recent years,


66% of revenue.


Total SG&A expense increased by approximately $1.5 million to $6.4 million. This compares to


$4.9 million a year ago. The largest contributor to this increase in SG&A expenses came from the


NextGen division and that was $0.6 million in selling related to compensation expenses to our


expanded NextGen sales force. NextGen also had another $0.6 million increase in other SG&A


expenses. They also had $0.3 million increase in corporate related expenses, total corporate


expenses were $1.3 million this quarter. That compares to $1 million a year ago. SG&A expense


as a percentage of revenue this quarter increased 29.1% compared to 26.9% in the prior year


quarter.


R&D expense grew 5% compared to the prior year quarter at $1.7 million. That compares to $1.6


million a year ago, and again most of this increase was related to investment in the NextGen


product line.


Our effective tax rate was lower compared to last year at 37.1%. That compares to 38.4% a year


ago. Our rate this quarter was impacted by a proportionately higher amount of R&D tax credits