raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Tina and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I


would like to welcome everyone to the Quality Systems First Quarter Fiscal 2006 Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions]


Thank you Mr. Silverman, you may begin your conference.


Louis Silverman, President and CEO


Thank you Tina, and welcome everyone to Quality System's fiscal 2006 first quarter conference


call. Paul Holt, our CFO; Greg Flynn, our Executive Vice President and General Manager of our


QSI division; and Pat Cline, President of our NextGen Healthcare Information Systems division


once again join me this afternoon’s call.


Please note that the comments made on this call may include statements that are forward-looking


within the meaning of the securities laws including without limitation statements related to


anticipated industry trends; the company’s plans, products, and strategies; projected operating


results; capital initiatives and the implementation; and potential impact of legal, regulatory, and


accounting requirements. Actual events or results may differ materially from our expectations and


projections and you should refer to our SEC filings including our Forms 10-K and 10-Q for


discussions of the risk factors, management’s discussion and analysis, and other information that


could impact our actual performance. We undertake no obligation to update any projections or


forward-looking statements in the future. And also please continue to note that the company’s past


performance is not necessarily indicative of future performance.


I will now provide summary qualitative and quantitative data on the quarter, and Paul, Greg and Pat


will follow with additional details.


For the quarter, the company set new revenue and earnings per share records. In the June quarter


revenue totaled 27.4 million, up approximately 36% over the prior year. Fully diluted earnings per


share at $0.38 exceeded prior year earnings per share by 46%.


The quarter’s top line results were driven by record revenue at the NextGen division, the 23.6


million in revenue attained by the division for the quarter represents 46% year-over-year increase.


The QSI division’s 3.8 million in quarterly revenue represents a 4% year-over-year decline. The


company profitability for the quarter was impacted by strong performance of our NextGen division


which had operating income of 8.7 million, a 68% increase over prior year. We had a $547,000


year-over-year drop in operating income in the QSI division which represents a 43% year-over-year


decline. Corporate expenditures is slightly more than 50% ahead of prior year levels although the


1.5 million spent during the quarter represented a nearly 25% decrease over the March quarter


expense. The company’s tax rate returned to more customary levels in the quarter. As you may


recall, we had a significant reduction in the company’s effective tax rate for the March quarter


driven by some of our previously undertaken and discussed R&D tax credit initiatives. EDI


revenues for the quarter came in at 3.1 million, up 36% over prior year. EDI grew 81% year-over-


year at the NextGen division and declined 4% on a year-over-year basis at the QSI division.


I will once again remind listeners that EDI revenue is reported as part of divisional revenue total


each quarter. Near the end of the June quarter, we reached a mutual agreement to terminate our


relationship with one of our several clearinghouse partners. We are in the process of working with


those clients affected by this transition. We have every confidence that the net financial impact of


this change will be minimal. Cash and cash equivalents were at 57.5 million at quarter end. DSOs
raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


increased to 124 days at fiscal year end from 119 at March quarter end. As I mentioned in our last


call, I feel that we can do better in this area and relevant members of our staff are focused on


getting this trend turned around. Full-time employee headcount at quarter was 417; taking these


revenues for the quarter, this generated annualized revenue per full-time employee of 263,000


which is at the higher end of our historical range. There were no stock repurchases during the


quarter.


On July 7, board member and shareholder, Ahmed Hussain filed the scheduled 13-D with the SEC;


the second straight year he has done so. For the second consecutive year, the company’s Board


of Directors have formed a special committee charged with directing the company’s response for


Mr. Hussain’s actions. On July 29, the company filed its preliminary proxy statement with the SEC


with respect to the 2005 annual shareholders meeting; shareholders should know that the company


will incur incremental expense as a result of Mr. Hussain’s filings and may incur additional expense


based on Mr. Hussain’s future actions if any. It is premature to speculate on the entirety of Mr.


Hussain’s actions or the magnitude of expense to be incurred by the company. The status of our


ongoing acquisition evaluation process continues unchanged. We continue to engage in a


selective review of opportunities, we will remain patient in our search and we will continue to be


patient in this area as an appropriate mindset. The company participated in the Sidoti, FBR and


Thomas Weisel conferences during the quarter. Future investor meetings are presently scheduled


for Houston, Baltimore, New York City, Philadelphia, Boston, San Francisco, L.A, and San Diego


during the upcoming weeks. In closing my prepared comments for this afternoon’s call, it is once


again my pleasure to point out that the performance of the company for the quarter has exceeded


our internal expectations and I would once again like to thank the individuals joining me on this call


and our entire team for their leadership and performance during this quarter and beyond. I also


want to clearly point out again to current and/or prospective analysts and investors that while we


are pleased with the company’s performance during the quarter, there are absolutely no


guarantees that the company or other of its divisions will exceed or even sustain their level of


performance in future periods. Its possible that our performance will encourage investors or


analysts to set new short medium or long term expectations for the company and in response to


this possibility, please continue to note that we do not give out financial guidance to the investment


community and we do not comment on the guidance advanced by the members of the financial


community.


I’ll now turn the call over to Paul Holt, our CFO for additional financial details on the quarter.


Paul Holt, CFO and Secretary


Thanks Lou and hello everyone. June 2005 quarter reflected continued growth in system sales,


maintenance, and EDI. Our consolidated system sales rose to 15.5 million, an increase of 40%


compared to the 11.1 million in the prior year quarter. While maintenance and other revenues rose


33%, to 12 million compared to 9 million in the prior year. Our consolidated profit gross profit


margin this quarter came in close to a record 64.4%, up from 59.8% a year ago and very close to


last quarter’s 64.3%. The increase in our gross profit margin over last year is primarily due to 2


factors. The first being a relatively low amount of hardware and third party software included in our


system sales compared to last year. Second having to with a decline in payroll expenses as a


percentage of revenue included in our cost of revenue. Despite making significant investments in


our implementation training and support areas, our revenues grew at a faster rate, resulting in a


benefit to our gross margin percentage.


Total SG&A expense increased by approximately 3 million to 8 million in the June quarter


compared to 5 million a year ago. 2.6 million of this increase was related to the NextGen division


and consisted of increases in selling, administrative salaries, and benefits, sales commissions,


travel expenses and other general administrative expenses. The balance of the increase was a 0.4


million increase in corporate related expenses.