raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Jason, and I will be your conference operator. At this time, I


would like to welcome everyone to the Quality Systems First Quarter Fiscal Year 2007 Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to present any background noise. After the speakers'


remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. If you would like to ask a question during this


time, simply press star followed by the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to


withdraw your question, press star followed by the number two on your telephone keypad. Thank


you. Mr. Silverman, you may begin your conference.


Lou Silverman, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jason, and welcome everyone to Quality Systems fiscal 2007 first quarter conference


call. Paul Holt, our CFO; Greg Flynn, our Executive Vice President and General Manager at the


QSI Division; and Pat Cline, President of the NextGen Healthcare Information Systems Division,


once again, joining me on this afternoon's call. Please note that the comments made on this call


may include statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the securities laws, including


without limitation, statements related to anticipated industry trends, the company's plans, products


and strategies, projected operating results, capital and equity initiative, pending litigation and the


implementation and potential impact of legal, regulatory and accounting requirements. Actual


events or results may differ materially from our expectations and projections and you should refer to


our prior SEC filings including our Forms 8-K, 10-K and 10-Q for discussions of the risk factors,


management discussion and analysis and other information that could impact our actual


performance. We undertake no obligation to update any projections or forward-looking statements


in the future. Also, as I have mentioned on each and every call for the past many quarters, please


continue to note that the company's past performance is not necessarily indicative of future


performance.


I'll now provide some summary comments on the quarter. Paul, Greg and Pat will follow with


additional details. For the June quarter, company revenue totaled 36.1 million, up approximately


32% over the prior year. Fully diluted earnings per share at $0.28 was up 47% over the $0.19


earned in the same quarter of the prior year. The $0.28 reported for the quarter is inclusive of the


approximate $0.02 per share expense tied to the adoption of FAS 123R, which is the new


accounting pronouncement for accounting for stock options. NextGen Healthcare revenues for the


quarter up 32.2 million represents a 36% year-over-year increase. The NextGen Division's


operating income was 13.4 million, a 54% increase over prior year. The QSI Division's 3.9 million in


quarterly revenue was up slightly over prior year performance. Total operating income for the


division increased by about $200,000 year-over-year.


Corporate expenses were up 46% year-over-year to 2.2 million. EDI revenue for the quarter came


in at 4 million, up 28% over the prior year, with bulk of the increase coming from the NextGen


division. I once again remind listeners that EDI revenue has reported as part of divisional revenue


total of each quarter, for each division. Cash and cash equivalents were 67 million at quarter end,


up from $57.2 million in the prior quarter. Headcount at quarter end was 551. Regarding investor


conferences, as you know, the summer is a very quite period. We have received numerous


invitations for the fall conference season. At present, we are scheduled to present at the Thomas


Weisel conference, the Bear Stearns conference, as well as the Credit Suisse, JMP and Piper


conferences.


At present, we have no additional updates to provide, regarding the legal actions of company


director Mr. Hussein, beyond that information which is part of our previously and publicly filed


reports. Investors should note the 8-K filed on Monday of this week regarding certain Board actions


regarding executive compensation for fiscal '07.
raw transcript


Quality Systems, Inc.
 
QSII
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
2


In closing, my prepared comment for this afternoon's call, I want to once again clearly point out as I


have over the past many quarters that there are no guarantees that the company or either of its


division will meet or exceed their current level of performance in the future periods. It's possible that


this quarters' performance will cause investors or analysts to set new short, medium or long-term


expectations for the company. In response to this possibility, please continue to note that we don't


give out financial guidance to the investment community and we don't comment on guidance


advanced by numbers of the financial community. The work of the company's senior management


team continues to be strong. Once again, my sincere thanks go out to Pat, Paul and Greg for their


continued leadership into our operating and corporate team members for their efforts and


excellence. Over to Paul Holt.


Paul Holt, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Lou. Hello everyone. Our consolidated system sales rose to 18 million this quarter, an


increase of 16% compared to 15.5 million in the prior-year quarter. Maintenance, EDI and other


services revenue rose 51% to 18.1 million, compared to 12 million in the prior-year quarter.


Continued growth in NextGen's customer base contributed to the increase in maintenance, EDI and


other services revenue. Our consolidated gross profit margin this quarter came in at 68.2%, that's


up from 64.4% a year ago. And as I've said in the past, our gross profit margins can fluctuate


depending up on how much hardware we have and we had a relatively low amount in hardware this


quarter compared to a year ago.


Total SG&A expense increased approximately 2.2 million, at 10.2 million this quarter that compares


to 8 million a year ago. 1.5 million of that increase came from the NextGen division and consisted of


increases in selling and administrative, salaries and benefits, commissions, travel expenses and


other SG&A expenses. The balance of the increase was primarily a $0.7 million increase in


corporate-related expenses related to professional services and salaries and related benefits. The


increase in corporate expenses was primarily driven by added accounting department staff and


expenses and I'll leave it at that.


The company's effective income tax rate was higher this quarter compared to a year ago at 39.9%


compared to 38.4% a year ago. Reason for the increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due


to two factors, the expiration of the R&D tax credits statute this year and the addition of certain non-


deductible stock option expenses, which came about as a result of the company's adoption of


FASB 123R, which relates to expensing stock options. If the R&D tax credit is re-enacted, then we


will recognize a benefit for R&D tax credits like we have in past.


Before I move to divisional performance, the adoption of FASB 123R this quarter resulted in


718,000 in additional pre-tax expenses. These additional expenses have been included in


respective categories cost of good sold, SG&A and R&D. The after-tax impact of our adoption was


$550,000 or $0.02 per diluted share and the after-tax impact of our adoption is approximately equal


to what would have been had we adopted in the prior year quarter. In terms of divisional


performance, our system sales in the NextGen division rose to 17.4 million this quarter; that


compares to 15.0 million a year ago, and continued growth in NextGen's base of installed users


drove maintenance EDI and other revenue in that division 72% higher at $14.8 versus $8.6 million


a year ago. Operating income in the NextGen Division was up 54% to $13,394,000 compared to


$8,703,000 a year ago. Our QSI Dental Division reported a slight increase of 1% in revenue, that's


$3,890,000 compared to $3, 833,000 year ago. Operating income in the QSI division was


$913,000.


Moving on to our balance sheet, our cash increased by approximately 9.8 million this quarter to $67


million or $2.50 per share, that compares to 57.2 million as of March 31 of this year or $2.14 a


share. Our DSOs grew seven days to 122 days versus 115 days last quarter. DSOs in the year-ago