corrected transcript


Valero LP
 
VLI
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 30, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Curtis V. Anastasio, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us and staying with us through that technical delay today


for this quarterly earnings conference call. 2005 was a year of major growth and some outstanding


accomplishments for Valero LP. We more than doubled the size of the company and set several


financial records and successfully integrated the Kaneb acquisition. We have also positioned the


company now on a much stronger strategic foundation that will help drive future growth.


To list just a few of those financial records, compared to last year, enterprise value more than


doubled from $1.7 billion to $3.6 billion. Revenues almost tripled to $660 million. EBITDA


increased by around 65% to $219 million and more important, distributable cash flow, applicable to


the Limited Partners increased by more than 50% to $136 million, providing us ample cash flow and


distribution coverage. And keep in mind, since our IPO in April 2001, total unit holder return is


close to 200% compared to the S&P 500 of 17%; and we've increased the distribution payment by


nearly 43% over the same period.


With the successful completion of the Kaneb acquisition last year, we've positioned ourselves as a


leading consolidator in the MLP sector. We are now one of the world's largest independent


petroleum pipeline and terminal operators with assets throughout the United States as well as in


Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Western Europe. We closed the $2.9 billion acquisition of


Kaneb and its General Partner on July 1st of '05. We bought the GP at a valuation multiple which


now looks cheap – about half the implied cash flow multiples of general partners that since have


chosen to become publicly traded. We've integrated the acquisition and it has met our


expectations, having greatly expanded the breadth of our operations and reduced our dependence


on Valero Energy.


The EBITDA and cash flows from the Kaneb acquisition adjusted for the divestitures mandated by


Federal Trade Commission have also met our expectations. While, we would have preferred to


have kept those divested assets, the sale enabled us to do a substantial deleveraging, leaving us


with one of the strongest balance sheets of any MLP. And we now have the financial clout and


spread of assets to grow from here, through strategic growth projects and acquisitions. The growth


projects we have identified since the acquisition are organized around certain developments in the


industry. The growth of ethanol and biodiesel is providing growth opportunities in practically every


region of the US, as well as Western Europe, for our terminals.


Growing markets, particularly in the Southwest as well as the West and East Coast, have increased


demand on our terminals in those regions, resulting in more growth opportunities. We also expect


cash flows from our ammonia pipeline, which is the premier ammonia line in the United States,


which has become even stronger in this era of high natural gas prices to increase from


debottlenecking projects and pipeline extensions to industrial end users. And in Europe, the


continuing export of gasoline to the US and importation of diesel favors our European terminals.


And of course, we expect to see continued growth in South Texas and Mexico from projects that


are already partially completed and which we expect will be done during the first half of 2006.


As I have also mentioned, we have one of the strongest balance sheets in the group after paying


down around $0.5 billion of outstanding debt since the Kaneb acquisition. Our debt to capitalization


ratio stands at only 38%; and our debt continues to be investment-grade rated.


Other 2005 accomplishments include the expansion of the Valley products line in South Texas; an


increase in volumes on our Dos Laredos system from 5,000 to more than 9,000 barrels per day;


and our new pipeline project to construct approximately 110 miles of pipeline in northeastern
corrected transcript


Valero LP
 
VLI
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 30, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Mexico and south Texas scheduled to be completed in May. We expect all of these investments to


be good contributors to earnings in 2006.


Now turning to our results for the quarter. Earnings applicable to Limited Partners from continuing


operations and before certain non-cash items for the fourth quarter were $29.6 million or 63 cents


per unit, which compares to 17.9 million or 78 cents per unit reported last year. For the full year


2005, earnings applicable to Limited Partners from continuing operations and before certain non-


cash items was $101.5 million or 2.90 a unit, compared to $72.5 million or $3.15 per unit reported


last year.


Overall, the partnership's earnings for the fourth quarter were below the guidance and expectations


of 65 cents to 70 cents for the quarter when we announced third quarter earnings. All of the factors


we mentioned at that time – the sale of assets to Pacific Energy Partners on September 30th, the


turnaround of Valero Energy's McKee Refinery, increased maintenance expense associated mainly


with certain legacy Kaneb assets, the typical seasonal slowdown in demand for asphalt and higher


energy costs, all of these impacted earnings in the fourth quarter.


Unfortunately the plant-wide turnaround at Valero Energy's McKee Refinery took longer than


planned. As a result, our volumes and revenues were hit harder than we originally expected. We


originally estimated the effect to earnings per unit to be around 5 cents; however it actually


impacted EPU by an additional 3 cents or 8 cents per unit.


Distributable cash flow applicable to the Limited Partners from continuing operations was $42.2


million or 90 cents per unit for the fourth quarter compared to 22.4 million or 97 cents per unit as


reported for the same period last year. For the full year distributable cash flow applicable from


continuing operations to Limited Partners was $136.5 million, $3.90 a unit compared to 90.3 million,


$3.92 per unit as reported for the full year.


As mentioned in the press release, the Board declared a quarterly distribution of 85.5 cents per unit


payable February 14th to unit holders of record February 7th. Our coverage ratio from continuing


operations of the declared 85.5 distribution was good at 105 times for the fourth quarter and was


1.16 times for the full year.


Before I get into the variance explanations for the quarter, I would like to discuss the non-cash


items reflected in our results and the sale of our Australian and New Zealand businesses, which are


reflected as discontinued operations on the income statement. Non-cash items totaled 4.6 million


in the fourth quarter or 9 cents per unit and primarily relate to the write-off of a portion of idle


pipeline in South Texas, and an adjustment to depreciation and amortization expense as part of the


purchase accounting for the Kaneb acquisition. These non-cash items had not been finalized at the


time we provided guidance.


With respect to the sale of our Australia/New Zealand businesses, we've signed a definitive


agreement to sell our eight terminals in New Zealand and Australia to ANZ Terminals for


approximately $65 million. Our decision to sell was based on the limited growth potential we


foresaw in this area and the non-strategic fit to our overall business. We expect to use the $65


million in proceeds to pay down outstanding debt and to continue to improve our already strong


balance sheet. Completion of the proposed sale is subject to customary conditions and is expected


to close during the first quarter of 2006.


Included in the effects of these non-cash items and discontinued operations, net income applicable


to Limited Partners was 24.2 million or 52 cents per unit for the fourth quarter of '05 and 100.3


million or $2.86 per unit for the full year 2005.


Next, I would like to go through some of the quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Similar to the third


quarter, the key driver for almost all of the key variances, fourth quarter to fourth quarter, are