corrected transcript


Valero L.P.
 
VLI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Janita and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time,


I'd like to welcome everyone to the Valero L.P. Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines


have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will


be a question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Mr. Fisher, you may begin


your conference.


Eric Fisher, Director of Investor Relations


Thanks Janita. Good afternoon and welcome to Valero L.P.’s fourth quarter 2004 conference call.


With me today is Curt Anastasio, CEO and President of Valero L.P., Steve Blank our CFO and


other members of the management team. If you have not received the earnings release and would


like a copy, you may obtain one off of our website at valerolp.com. Attached to the earnings


release, we have provided additional financial information on our business segments. If after


reviewing the tables, you have any questions on that information, please feel free to contact us


after the call.


Before we get started, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statement


disclaimer that’s included in the press release. In summary it says that forward-looking statements


contained in the press release and on this conference call are intended to be covered by the


provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Factors that could cause our actual


results to be materially different include those that we’ve described in filings that we have made


with the SEC. Curt?


Curtis V. Anastasio, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for our quarterly earnings conference call. Our


solid fourth quarter results closed out another year of record earnings and record accomplishments.


In 2004, our unit price hit an all-time high of $61.75. And for the year, we delivered a total unit


holder return of over 26%, which compares to the pipeline MLP average of 14%, and the S&P 500


of 11%. These returns are among the highest in our peer group for the year. With our record


earnings, we were able to increase the annual distribution by nearly 9% over last year’s rate, which


is among the highest growth rates in the industry. And as you all know, with our recent


announcement to acquire Kaneb, we expect to recommend an increase in the distribution to $3.42


per unit annually after closing which is an increase in the annual distribution of nearly 7%.


Other 2004 accomplishments include the acquisition of two state-of-the art asphalt terminals from


Royal Trading and the commissioning of a new propane storage and distribution terminal in Nuevo


Laredo, Mexico. Both of these investments are expected to be big contributors to earnings in 2005


as more volumes are expected to move through these facilities. We are also particularly pleased to


have capped the incentive distribution payments to our general partner at 25%, as a reflection of


Valero Energy’s commitment to the growth and independence of Valero L.P. This is a unique


advantage to our partnership in evaluating acquisitions given that the incremental accretion from


the transaction would no longer be required to be split 50:50 with our general partner.


Of course, the most important accomplishment for 2004 was the announcement of our agreement


to acquire Kaneb Services LLC and Kaneb Pipe Line Partners, L.P. The Kaneb assets are a perfect


fit with our assets and will create an outstanding platform for future growth. Since the time of the


announcement, both organizations have been working extremely hard to finalize the acquisition.
corrected transcript


Valero L.P.
 
VLI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


And while we still have a few hurdles to clear, we think we are making very good progress towards


the closing, in line with our announced timeframe.


But before I get into more discussion on the Kaneb transaction, let me quickly go through the fourth


quarter results. For the fourth quarter, we reported earnings applicable to limited partners of $17.9


million or $0.78 per unit, which compares to 18.3 million or $0.79 per unit last year. For the full year,


earnings were up over 10% to a record $72.5 million, or $3.15 per unit compared to 65.6 million or


$3.02 per unit last year. Earnings were lower in the fourth quarter of ’04 versus the fourth quarter of


’03 primarily due to the previously announced plant-wide turnaround at Valero Energy’s Benicia


refinery which decreased our crude oil storage throughputs by over 50,000 barrels per day and


affected fourth quarter’s earnings by approximately $0.04 per unit. The good news is that


operationally we had another solid quarter with overall higher throughput volumes in every other


business line. Our crude and refined product pipelines and terminal throughputs were higher


primarily due to increased runs at most of the Valero Energy refineries that the partnership serves,


the acquisition of the asphalt terminals from Royal Trading in February, and the start up of the Dos


Laredos system in June.


Distributable cash flow applicable to the limited partners for the quarter was $22.4 million compared


to 20 million for the same period last year, an increase of 12%. This increase is primarily due to


lower reliability capital expenditures. Our coverage ratio applicable to the limited partners for the


year was 1.23 times, well above last year’s ratio of 1.16 times and the peer group average of


around 1.12 times. You will also note in the release that we declared a quarterly distribution of


$0.80 per unit payable February 14th.


Looking at a few of the other variances for the quarter, operating and administrative expense


increased by around $2 million from the fourth quarter of ’03. The increase in operating expense for


the quarter was partially attributable to the impact of amendments we made last year to our


services agreement with Valero Energy that we implemented on April 1st. As we discussed


previously, these changes were made to more appropriately reflect how costs were allocated


between Valero Energy and Valero L.P. These increased costs were offset by tariff increases.


The acquisition of the two asphalt terminals we completed this past year, the start up of the Dos


Laredos system, and higher variable compensation expense, also increased operating expenses.


Going forward, we expect quarterly operating expense to be in the range of $21 million and


administrative expenses to be in the range of $4 million per quarter.


Interest expense increased by 1.1 million due in part to $43 million in additional borrowings in the


first quarter of 2004 under the revolving credit facility to fund the $28 million acquisition of the Royal


Trading asphalt terminal and a portion of the costs associated with the Dos Laredos project, but


also due to less benefit from our interest rate swaps compared to the prior year’s quarter. We have


since paid down $15 million of the 43 million in additional borrowings and our debt to capitalization


ratio currently stands at 46.8%, better than most of our peers.


Now turning to the Kaneb acquisition, in December we announced that we had received a second


request from the Federal Trade Commission for additional information and documentary material.


We have been working diligently with them to provide all requested materials as promptly as


possible. Although we are not in a position to comment on the details of that process, we believe


our discussions with the regulators to-date have been constructive and we will be providing an


update on our progress when appropriate. We can let you know, however, that we have been


notified by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it has accelerated the effectiveness of our


registration statement on Form S4. As a result proxy statements have been recently mailed out and


the unitholder and shareholder meetings to approve the deal are scheduled for March 11th.


Also, with regard to integration efforts, transition teams from both companies have been set up and


are meeting regularly to ensure a smooth startup. Senior and mid-level management positions for