corrected transcript


Valero LP
 
VLI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, my name is Angela and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Valero L.P. Second Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. Mr. Meador, you may begin your


conference.


Mark Meador, Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon and welcome to Valero L.P.'s second quarter 2005 earnings


conference call. With me today is Curt Anastasio, CEO and President of Valero L.P.; Steve Blank,


our CFO; and other members of the management team including two of our newest members, Mary


Morgan, VP of Marketing Development, and Jim Tidmore, VP of Terminal Operations. If you have


not received the earnings release and would like a copy, you may obtain one from our website at


valerolp.com. Attached to the earnings release, we have provided additional financial information


on our business segments. If after reviewing the attached tables you have questions on the


information that is presented there, please feel free to contact us after the call. Also note that the


financial results for Valero L.P. for the second quarter and six months ended 2005 do not include


the financial results of Kaneb Pipe Line Partners L.P. or Kaneb Services LLC, which were merged


into Valero L.P. July 1st. Beginning with the third quarter, the financial results of Kaneb will be


included in the reported results of Valero L.P.


Before we get started, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statement


disclaimer included in the press release. In summary, it says that forward-looking statements


contained in the press release and conference call are intended to be covered by the provisions of


the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Factors that could cause our actual results to be


materially different include those we’ve described in filings we have made with the SEC. Curt?


Curtis V. Anastasio, President, CEO and Director


Good afternoon and welcome to our first conference call since the completion of the acquisition of


Kaneb. We welcome all of you to this call, especially our new unitholders, and we look forward to


capitalizing on the many opportunities this merger creates for the new Valero L.P. As one of the


premier mid-stream logistics MLPs, Valero L.P. is now in an outstanding strategic position to build


on its diverse asset base. With the merger completed and excluding the assets slated for


divestiture to Pacific Energy Partners, we have over 9,100 miles of crude and refined product


pipeline, 94 terminal facilities, and 4 crude oil storage tank facilities with over 77 million barrels of


storage capacity. This strong asset position serves every major area of the United States as well


as international markets, in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, the United Kingdom, Australia, and


New Zealand.


Later in this call I’ll provide more details on the merger, but first I would like to discuss Valero L.P.'s


second quarter results. For the second quarter we reported earnings applicable to limited partners


of $17 million or $0.74 per unit, which compares to 18.2 million or $0.79 per unit last year. Year-to-


date, earnings were $34.8 million or $1.51 per unit, compared to 36.7 million or $1.59 per unit for


the first six months of ’04. Distributable cash flow applicable to the limited partners for the quarter


was $22.1 million, compared to 22 million for the same period last year. Our overall coverage ratio,


covering both the general partner and limited partners, was 1.15 times for the second quarter.


With completion of the Kaneb acquisition, our Board has approved an increase in the quarterly


distribution rate to $0.855 per unit, a 6.9% increase from the $0.80 per unit paid in the first quarter.
corrected transcript


Valero LP
 
VLI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This is the fifth increase in the quarterly distribution since the IPO in April 2001 and represents a


43% increase in the distribution rate in just over four years, or an average annual increase of more


than 10% per year. This latest increase puts our annual distribution rate at $3.42 per unit.


Turning now to some of the quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Earnings were lower in the second


quarter of 2005 versus second quarter of ’04, primarily due to the previously announced plant-wide


turnarounds at Valero Energy's Ardmore and Three Rivers refineries. These planned maintenance


turnarounds affected second quarter's earnings by approximately $0.07 per unit. Second quarter


revenues increased by approximately 2.6 million compared to last year, primarily due to higher


volumes shipped on the McKee to Denver refined product pipeline; a full quarter's contribution from


our propane pipeline to Nuevo Laredo, Mexico; and higher throughput volumes in our asphalt


terminals and crude oil storage business. The increase in revenues were partially offset by lower


volumes on the pipelines and terminals affected by the turnarounds at Valero Energy's Ardmore


and Three Rivers refineries that I just mentioned.


Operating expense increased by approximately 1.4 million from the second quarter of ’04. The


increase in operating expense for the quarter was primarily due to higher regulatory, inspection,


and repair costs as part of our 2005 reliability program to enhance the safety and integrity of our


assets. Administrative expenses increased by approximately $900,000 from the second quarter of


2004. This increase for the quarter was primarily attributable to increased headcount in anticipation


of acquiring Kaneb.


Interest expense increased by around $800,000, due to rising short-term interest rates and a higher


debt balance on our $175 million revolver. Our debt-to-capitalization ratio currently stands at


47.7%, much lower than the peer group average.


Since Kaneb Pipe Line Partners will not be reporting second quarter earnings until we file the 8-K/a.


Let me walk you through some observations about their results. Kaneb Partners' results are


expected to be in line with our projections and with their original budget. Although we have not


closed the books, second quarter net income applicable to limited partners before merger-related


costs and any charges is expected to be around $22.2 million or $0.78 per unit. This compares


with 21.8 million or $0.77 per unit for the second quarter of 2004.


Currently, we are working on a Form 8-K/a filing that will report Kaneb’s financial results and show


the pro forma numbers for 2004 and the 6 months ended 2005 for the combined company. These


numbers will reflect the assets required to be divested as part of the order from the Federal Trade


Commission approving the deal. The 8-K/a filing is due in early September, and we expect to file it


before that time. In addition, we intend to provide additional modeling details at that time.


Now, I’d like to provide some additional comments on the Kaneb merger. First, we are on track in


our agreement with Pacific Energy Partners to sell them the assets required to be divested, and we


expect to close this quarter. You will recall we announced the sale on July 5th. The assets to be


sold include two California terminals handling refined products, blendstocks, and crude oil; three


East Coast refined products terminals; and a 550-mile refined products pipeline with four truck


terminals and storage in the U.S. Rocky Mountains.


Income from these held-separate businesses will be included in Valero L.P.'s results until the deal


is closed. The $455 million of proceeds received from the sale of these assets will be used to pay


down debt, which will help strengthen our balance sheet and position the partnership for growth


opportunities in the future. We're very pleased to have received such a great price on top of being


able to announce the sale of these assets so quickly, and to a very viable MLP who has agreed to


hire on all of the employees associated with running these assets.


In connection with the closing of the Kaneb merger, we also sold Kaneb's Martin Oil refined


products marketing business to Valero Energy for about $27 million, which will be used to pay down