corrected transcript


Valero LP
 
VLI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, my name is Miles and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Valero L.P. Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mark Meador,


Manager of Investor Relations. Sir you may begin.


Mark Meador, Investor Relations


Good afternoon and welcome to Valero L.P.’s third quarter 2005 earnings conference call. With me


today is Curt Anastasio, CEO and President of Valero L.P.; Steve Blank, our CFO; and other


members of the management team. If you have not received our earnings release and would like a


copy, you may obtain one from our website at valerolp.com. Attached to the earnings release, we


have provided additional financial information on our business segments. Please note that the


throughput barrels per day presented on these tables does not include throughputs for the held-


separate businesses, sold to Pacific Energy Partners, L.P. on September 30th. If after reviewing


these cash tables, you have questions on the information that is presented there, please feel free to


contact us after the call.


Before we get started, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statement


disclaimer included in the press release. In summary, it says that forward-looking statements


contained in the press release and conference call are intended to be covered by the provisions of


the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Factors that could cause our actual results to be


materially different include those we've described in filings we have made with the SEC. Curt?


Curtis V. Anastasio, Chief Executive Officer and President and Director


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for our quarterly earnings conference call. We


had an outstanding quarter financially, reporting record third quarter earnings. A full quarter’s


contribution from the former Kaneb assets was one of the primary drivers behind these great


results. Going through a few of the numbers, net income applicable to limited partners for the


quarter was $41.3 million or $0.88 a unit, which compares to 17.9 million or $0.78 per unit last year.


Included in the third quarter results, are earnings from the held-separate businesses sold to Pacific


Energy on September 30th which are classified as discontinued operations on the income


statement. For the third quarter, this amounted to 4.4 million of net income, applicable to limited


partners who are $0.09 per unit. If you recall, the held-separate businesses consisted of 2


California terminals handling refined products, blendstocks, and crude oil; three East Coast refined


products terminals; and a 550-mile refined products pipeline with four truck terminals and storage in


the Rocky Mountains.


While we would have preferred to retain these assets, we received a great price for them. The $455


million of proceeds from sale was used to pay down debt, which positions the partnership well


going forward to capitalize on additional strategic opportunities. Effective October 1st, the financial


results from these held-separate businesses will no longer be included in the reported results of


Valero L.P.


Distributable cash flow applicable to the limited partners was a record $54.7 million or $1.17 per


unit, compared to 22.7 million or $0.99 per unit for the same period last year. The $0.18 increase in


distributable cash flow is largely attributable to the accretion from the Kaneb acquisition. Based on


the $0.855 per unit distribution declared by our board, as we noted in the press release, our


distributable cash flow provided 1.37 times coverage to the limited partners for the third quarter.
corrected transcript


Valero LP
 
VLI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


If you look at our balance sheet now, it’s in great shape. At the end of the third quarter, cash on


hand was 42 million and the partnership’s debt to capitalization ratio was only 38%, well below the


second quarter of around 47% and much lower than our peer group average of around 54%.


Operationally, this was a challenging quarter for many companies affected by Hurricane Katrina


and Rita. But fortunately, we experienced no significant damage to our Gulf Coast assets from


either hurricanes. We did have to shutdown certain of our pipeline and terminal facilities located in


the storms’ path prior to making landfall. However, our experienced engineers and operators were


able to get these assets back up and running within a few days which resulted in a minimal financial


impact. Fortunately, the only other impact to us from the weather was that storage throughput


volumes at Valero Energy’s Corpus Christi and Texas City refineries were reduced for a week due


to Hurricane Rita.


Next I would like to go through some of the quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Third quarter revenues


increased by $205.5 million compared to last year primarily due to the addition of the Kaneb assets,


and higher throughput volume from seasonally strong demand. Keep in mind a large portion of our


revenues now come from the former Kaneb bunkering business; offsetting bunkering revenues are


expenses associated with the bunkering operations which are shown as cost of sales on the


income statement. For the third quarter, bunkering costs of sales was a 101.2 million resulting in


8.9 million of gross margin from the bunkering business.


Operating expenses increased by 49.7 million from the third quarter of ’04 due to adding the Kaneb


assets as well as higher regulatory inspection and repair costs as part of our 2005 reliability


program to enhance the safety and integrity of our assets. Going forward, we expect quarterly


operating expenses to be in the range of 65 million to 70 million per quarter.


General and Administrative expense increased by 6.8 million from the third quarter of 2004


primarily due to increased headcount from the acquisition of Kaneb and an amendment to our


Valero service agreement which was effective with the Kaneb acquisition. That amendment


reflects the larger scope of services necessary for the Kaneb acquisition. Going forward, we expect


quarterly administrative expense to be in the range of 9 to $10 million per quarter. With respect to


depreciation expense, the 15.5 million increase from the third quarter of 2004 is primarily due to the


Kaneb assets and excludes depreciation for the held separate businesses. We expect depreciation


expense to remain about the same going forward in the range of 23 to $23.5 million. But keep in


mind that is subject to change based on a valuation exercise we are currently undertaking.


Interest expense increased by $9.9 million due to additional debt incurred to finance the Kaneb


acquisition as well as rising short-term interest rates. To fund the acquisition we borrowed $525


million on a new 5 year loan facility and 180 million on a new 400 million revolver. Proceeds from


these financings were used to pay the cash consideration to shareholders of Kaneb Services LLC


and to refinance Kaneb and Valero LP bank debt. With the $482 million of proceeds from the sale


of the held separate business to Pacific Energy Partners LP and the sale of Martin Oil to Valero


Energy, we paid-off $180 million of the 400 million revolver and partially paid down the $525 million


term loan. With respect to our public debt, we remain investment grade graded by S&P, Moody’s


and Fitch – all with a stable outlook. Going forward, we expect quarterly interest expense to be in


the range of 14 to $15 million.


Now I’d like to provide some additional comments on some of our current and future growth


projects. With respect to the recently announced pipeline project to construct approximately 110


miles of new pipeline in northeastern Mexico and South Texas. We are ahead of schedule and


expect to be in service by May of 2006. This project will take unrefined petroleum products such as


naphtha from the Burgos gas fields of Northern Mexico up to Brownsville, Texas where they can


then be marketed to Gulf Coast refineries.