corrected transcript


Valero L.P.
 
VLI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Erica and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Valero L.P. First Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker’s remarks,


there will be a question and answer period.


[Operator Instructions]


Thank you. Mr. Mador, you may begin your conference.


Company Representative


Thank you operator. Good morning and welcome to Valero L.P.’s first quarter 2005 earnings


conference call. With me today is Curt Anastasio, CEO and President of Valero L.P., Steve Blank


our CFO and other members of the management team. If you have not received the earnings


release and would like a copy, you may obtain one from the website at valerolp.com. Attached to


the earnings release, we have provided additional financial information on our business segments.


If after reviewing the attached tables, you have any questions on the information that is presented


there, please feel free to contact us after the call.


Before we get started, I would like to direct your attention to the forward-looking statement


disclaimer included in the press release. In summary, it says that forward-looking statements


contained in the press release and on this conference call are intended to be covered by the


provisions of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Factors that could cause our actual


results to be materially different include those we’ve described in filings that we have made with the


SEC. With that, I’ll turn it over to Curt.


Curtis V. Anastasio, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for our quarterly earnings


conference call. For the first quarter, we reported earnings applicable to limited partners of $17.8


million or $0.77 per unit, which compares to 18.5 million or $0.80 per unit last year.


Distributable cash flow applicable to the limited partners for the quarter was $23.1 million compared


to $23.2 million for the same period last year. We continue to maintain a strong coverage ratio


applicable to the limited partners at 1.25 times, well above average. Our overall coverage ratio,


covering both the general and limited partners was a very strong 1.31 times for the first quarter.


Also note, the Board declared a quarterly distribution of $0.80 per unit payable May 13 to unit to


holders of record on May 6.


Turning now to some of our key financial statistics. Revenues were higher by approximately $4.3


million compared to last year, primarily due to the completion of the Dos Laredos system on June 1


of last year, higher throughputs in our crude oil storage tank business segment, and the acquisition


of two asphalt terminals from Royal Trading in February of last year. Crude oil storage tanks


throughputs were higher primarily due to improved throughputs at Valero Energy’s Benicia and


Texas City refineries compared to the first quarter of last year.


With respect to our Dos Laredos system, this project continues to exceed our expectations and we


expect even higher propane throughputs next quarter. So far in April, we are averaging around


8,500 barrels per day compared to 6,000 barrels per day in the first quarter. On April 1, Valero
corrected transcript


Valero L.P.
 
VLI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Energy Corporation began supplying T/Mex with increased volumes of propane supplied by their


Corpus Christi and Three Rivers, Texas refineries. For the final three quarters of this year, we


expect to average around 10,000 barrels per day as a result of the growing demand for propane in


Northern Mexico.


Operating expenses increased by approximately 1.8 million from the first quarter of 2004. The


increase in operating expense for the quarter was in part attributable to the impact of the service


agreement amendment, which was implemented on April 1 of last year and additional headcount


positions us to grow this business further. Operating expenses were also higher due to a March


outage at our Corpus Christi to Houston pipeline. Going forward, we expect quarterly operating


expenses to be in the range of 22 million per quarter, exclusive of the Kaneb acquisition.


Administrative expenses increased by approximately 1.5 million for the first quarter of 2004. The


increase in administrative expense for the quarter was, again, primarily attributable to the impact of


the service agreement amendment, increased headcount, and higher variable compensation


expense. In addition, we incurred costs associated with the pending merger of our operations with


Kaneb Pipe Line Partners L.P and Kaneb Services LLC, which reduced earnings by about $0.01


per unit. Going forward, we expect administrative expenses to be approximately 3.6 million per


quarter, exclusive of the Kaneb acquisition.


Interest expense increased by about 700,000 due to rising short-term interest rates, partially offset


by a lower debt balance. Since the first quarter of last year, we’ve paid down around $11 million on


our revolver, and our debt to capitalization ratio stands at 46.8%.


Looking ahead to the second quarter, we expect throughput levels will be lower due to the


previously announced scheduled plant-wide turnaround at Valero Energy’s Ardmore and Three


Rivers refineries that will each last for about 3 weeks. Therefore, we expect earnings to be slightly


lower than our first quarter 2005 earnings.


In the second half of the year, leaving aside the effect of the Kaneb acquisition, we expect to have


improved earnings, as we benefit from planned increases in our pipeline tariff, which is going to


effect on July 1, higher throughputs due to seasonal demand, and the relative absence of


turnaround at the Valero Energy refineries we serve. Currently only the McKee refinery is


scheduled for a turnaround in the fourth quarter.


With respect to our 2005 reliability program, this year we’ll be moving forward with many more


projects to enhance the safety and integrity of our assets. As a result, we expect reliability capital


expenditures will increase significantly from last year. For 2005, reliability capital expenditures are


expected to be around $15 million, which is lower than the $19 million estimate we gave you on the


fourth quarter conference call. Of that, around 4 million will be in the second quarter. In the first


quarter, we said 1.4 million.


Now turning to the Kaneb acquisition, I am pleased to say that the proposed acquisitions by Valero


L.P. of Kaneb Partners and Kaneb Services were approved in the special meetings held by the


respective entities last month. This is a testament to the tremendous support we received for this


deal on both sides. We are continuing to work diligently to complete the transaction during this


second quarter. Although we are still not in a position to comment on the details of that process,


we believe our discussions with the SEC have been constructive. We will be providing further


updates on our progress when appropriate. We look forward to closing the Kaneb acquisition and


remain excited about the many growth opportunities that we have with this larger, more diversified


company. Keep in mind, we expect to increase our distribution to $3.42 per unit annually or 85.5


cents quarterly after the closing. Going forward, we expect to continue to grow cash flow and


distribution through internal growth and improvements in our expanded base business.


At this time, I will open it up for Q&A. Operator?