raw transcript


NuVasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the NuVasive Incorporated Third


Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A


brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Nick


Laudico, of the Ruth Group. Thank you Mr. Laudico, you may begin.


Nick Laudico, Ruth Group


Thanks operator. Welcome to the NuVasive third quarter earnings conference call. NuVasive’s


senior management joining us on the call today will be Alex Lukianov, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; Keith Valentine, President; and Kevin O'Boyle, Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer. NuVasive cautions you that statements included on this conference call that


are not a description of historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks,


uncertainties, assumptions and other factors, which if they do not materialize or prove correct could


cause NuVasive’s results to differ materially from historical results or those expressed or implied by


such forward-looking statements.


The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual growth and results to differ materially


include, but are not limited to, the uncertain process of seeking regulatory approval or clearance for


NuVasive’s products or devices including risks that such processes could be significantly delayed,


the possibility that the FDA may require significant changes to NuVasive's products for clinical


study, the risks that products may not perform as intended and may therefore not achieve


commercial success including products under development and those undergoing clinical study, the


risk that competitors may develop superior products or may have a greater market position


enabling more successful commercialization, the risk that additional clinical data may call into


question the benefits of NuVasive's products or investigational devices, including devices under


development such as NeoDisc to patients, hospitals, and surgeons and other risks and


uncertainties more fully described in NuVasive’s press releases and periodic filings with the


Securities and Exchange Commission. NuVasive's public filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission are available at www.sec.gov. NuVasive assumes no obligation to update any


forward-looking statements or let events or circumstances arising after the date on which it was


made.


With that I would like to turn the call over to Alex Lukianov.


Alexis V. Lukianov, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Nick and thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon for our third quarter 2006 call. We


are extremely pleased with our operating and financial performance during the quarter. We see


increasing momentum with our exclusive sales force and we continue to train spine surgeons on


our products and techniques at a robust rate. In addition, in the third quarter we launched


innovative new products that strengthened our competitive advantage.


Before outlining how we believe these and other important strategic initiatives will continue to fuel


revenue growth, let me take a moment to briefly review our strong financial performance. Revenue


for the third quarter was $25.2 million, an increase of 64.6% from the same quarter last year. As a


result of this strong performance, we are increasing our full year 2006 revenue guidance from 90 to


92 million to a new range of 94 to $95 million. Our CFO, Kevin O'Boyle will discuss the financials


and key performance indicators in more detail following my remarks.
raw transcript


NuVasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


Our exclusive sales force is generating impressive results. This sales force consists of


approximately 175 total sales professionals. The process of educating these sales professionals on


our broad suite of products and enabling them to achieve deeper product penetration continues to


produce results, particularly with respect to vertical integration of hospitals. At the end of the third


quarter, 39% of hospitals using our products were vertically integrated versus 33% at June 30. As a


result of this strong performance, we are raising our full year 2006 guidance of between 35 and


38% of hospitals vertically integrated to between 42 and 45%.


We are particularly excited about our new distribution facility which we believe will help fuel our


growth for the long-term. Our new facility which opened in September is strategically located in


Memphis near the Federal Express Distribution Hub. This strategic location affords additional


working hours each day to process and ship products and instrument sets including an ability to


process last minute East Coast requests for next day’s surgical procedures. As our sales force


gains momentum, we continue to see stronger penetration in our established markets and we are


also pleased to report that our sales force is steadily gaining traction in areas where adoption of


NuVasive’s products had previously been under-represented.


Training spine surgeons on our MAS platform continues to be a major focus for NuVasive. We


trained 177 surgeons during the third quarter compared to 99 in the third quarter of 2005 and 151


during the second quarter of 2006. Year-to-date, total surgeons trained is 460. This continued


momentum into the back half of 2006 is a result of both spine surgeon’s strong interest in learning


our proprietary XLIF procedure as well as the impact of our exclusive sales force. Our exhibit at the


annual meeting of the North American Spine Society or NAS in Seattle in late September was very


successful. We were extremely pleased to see robust surgeon attendance at each of our XLIF and


our other product demonstrations and at overall strong interest in our company.


Our goals of consistently introducing products that are a step ahead of the competition and


obsolete our own products remain important parts of our strategy. During NAS last month, we


released new products which we believe further positioned NuVasive as a leader in developing


cutting edge technology in direct response to surgeon needs. Let me briefly outline these products


as well as our planned product launches for the remainder of 2006. Earlier in the year, we launched


our Gradient Plus anterior cervical plating system, which allows spine surgeons to choose between


fixed, semi-constraint or dynamic fixation options based on the surgical requirement. This unique


system has solidified our entry into the cervical spine business. We also achieved a number of


technological leaps ahead of the competition.


MaXcess III is a further enhancement of our MaXcess and MaXcess II systems with the addition of


several features that improve access to the spine. MaXcess III maintains the split blade design and


continues to incorporate the Company’s nerve vision, nerve avoidance technology within the


posterior retraction blade. MaXcess III also adds a removable fourth blade for increased surgical


exposure and also incorporates an improved token blade lumping mechanism.


We launched a major instrument set redesign for use in all lumbar spine fusion procedures as well


this summer. This significant design and engineering effort offers greater efficiency in surgery


execution and more logical set configurations reducing the number of trays required for specific


procedure. Most importantly, the redesigned instrument sets were developed from our


comprehensive understanding of the many surgical nuances specific to each surgeon and provide


seamless utility with all NuVasive lumbar systems. Our expanded line of CoRoent implants provide


an even greater variety of specialized sizes and shapes that are key components in winning and


maintaining a surgeon’s business.


In the fourth quarter of 2006, we are planning a limited launch of our lateral lumbar XLIF plate


designed for use during our proprietary XLIF procedure. This allows for the placement of an


additional fixation device through the same incision used for placing an interbody implant. This


provides the option to use a plate for fixation instead of pedicle screws. We also expect to introduce