raw transcript


Nuvasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings ladies and gentlemen, and welcome the NuVasive Incorporated Third Quarter


2005 Earnings Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions.] It is now my pleasure to introduce


your host Mr. Nick Laudico of The Ruth Group. Thank you. Sir, you may begin.


Nick Laudico, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, The Ruth Group


Thanks operator. Welcome to the NuVasive third quarter earnings conference call. NuVasive’s


senior management joining us on the call today will be Alex Lukianov, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; Keith Valentine, President; and Kevin O'Boyle, Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer.


This conference call may contain statements that are not a description of historical facts. These


forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, which if


they do not materialize or prove correct, could cause NuVasive's results to differ materially from


historical results or those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual growth and results to differ materially


include, but are not limited to, the risks that NuVasive's revenue projections may turn out to be


incorrect because of unanticipated difficulty in selling NuVasive’s products, the uncertain process of


seeking regulatory approval or clearance for NuVasive’s products such as the NeoDisc, including


risks that such process could be significantly delayed, the possibility that the FDA may require


significant changes to NuVasive’s products or clinical studies, the risk that products may not


perform as intended and may therefore not achieve commercial success, the risk that competitors


may develop superior products or may have a greater market position enabling more successful


commercialization, the risk that additional clinical data may call into question the benefits of


NuVasive’s products to patients, surgeons and other risks and uncertainties more described in


NuVasive’s press releases and periodic filing with the Security and Exchange Commission.


NuVasive’s public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at


www.sec.gov. NuVasive assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect


events or circumstances arising after the date on which it was made.


With that I would like to turn the call over to Alex Lukianov.


Alexis V. Lukianov, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Nick, and thank you to everyone for joining us this afternoon for out third quarter call. We


are excited about the 5 new products launched during the quarter including ExtenSure, the first


product launched as a result of our acquisition of dynamic stabilization technology and our


acquisition of the NeoDisc cervical motion preservation device. These initiatives represent our


underlying strategy of offering spine surgeons not only a complete suite of products, but provide an


cutting edge technology to improve surgical efficiency and increase patient benefits. Our 5 new


products are key to expediting our move towards sales force exclusivity since they broaden our


product offering and demonstrate our leadership in developing technologically advanced products


with minimum for minimally disruptive spine surgery.


Let me highlight some of the financial metrics for the quarter. Revenue for the third quarter was


$15.1 million representing an increase of 48.6% from the same quarter last year and in line with our


expectations and consistent with the second quarter of ’05.
raw transcript


Nuvasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our gross margin for the quarter remained strong at 78.2%. Expenses in the quarter reflect


increases associated with our acquisitions, transition to exclusivity, and prominent attendance at


the North American Spine Society meeting, commonly referred to as NASS, which is our largest


national trade show of the year. We trained with 99 surgeons during the quarter for a total of 309 in


the first 9 months of 2005. This compares to 202 surgeons trained during all of 2004. We remain


on track to reach our goal of over 400 surgeons trained in 2005.


Our new operating theater, which we opened in the first quarter, continues to be a major contributor


to accelerating training momentum. Our Chief Financial Officer, Kevin O'Boyle, will discuss the


financials and key performance indicators in more detail following my remarks. I am going to take a


few minutes now to highlight the new products we launched during the quarter and the role they


play in staying at the forefront of offering spine surgeons outstanding technology.


Our new MaXcess II retractor features superior and inferior blades that kick-out at an angle. The


blade spread the tissue closest to the pathology point even further than the original MaXcess, while


doing so through the same size portal in the skin. MaXcess II also incorporates NeuroVision within


the posterior retraction blade for dynamic nerve surveillance. MaXcess II is floor [ph] compatible


allowing the surgeon to use less C-arm time during the procedure.


We believe this product provides surgeons with enhanced safety and access to the spine. Our


strategy for MaXcess II is to broaden our penetration of the spine market, and increase pull-through


of our implants such as Cerpass [ph] TDR, our percutaneous pedicle screw system, while further


differentiating us from our competitors. We also made enhancements to NeuroVision in the form of


a software upgrade for improved nerve monitoring capabilities and a simplified harness with dual


electrodes. These enhancements allow for greater ease of use by the surgical staff and


streamlines application of surface electrodes. We also believe that these improvements further


differentiate us from our competitors.


The CoRoent Large Contoured Implants and CoRoent XLR are designed to allow for simplicity of


surgeon placements and proper anatomical fit in the spine. These products are complementary to


the CoRoent system designed in response to the demand from spine surgeons for ready


[indiscernible] implants with superior anatomical fit that are easy to position and align.


Now an update on the products we acquired. SmartPlate Gradient CLP, the dynamic cervical plate


acquired RSB, has positively impact both the revenue and the margin on the classic fusion line of


products. Next, our ExtenSure interspinous dynamic stabilization and fusion system acquired in


August from Riverbend allows decompression to a more natural restoration of the spine anatomy.


ExtenSure was officially launched as a limited release at NASS less then two months after


acquisition. We anticipate a full launch on the first half of 2006, as we build inventory to support the


caseload.


NeoDisc acquired in August from Pearsalls is our surgical disc replacement device in development


representing a significant potential for product expansion strategy. We believe this investigational


device could provide NuVasive the opportunity to be first to the US market with a nucleus like


device designed to preserve motion in the cervical region of the spine. This easily revisable device


could bridge the gap that currently exists between the pre surgical treatment and either TDR or


spine fusion. We filed an IDE application for NeoDisc last week and we look forward to formalizing


the criteria for an anticipated clinical study to begin in 2006.


The five launch products plus NeoDisc and ExtenSure were extremely well received by spine


surgeons during their display at our booth at NASS. Our sales force has also given us positive


feedback on our newly launched products, which bodes well for our prospects in fourth quarter.


Now an update on our transition towards sales force exclusivity. As we have previously discussed


we are in the process of creating a hybrid sales force. Our efforts will result in a sales force