raw transcript


Nuvasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for holding. Welcome to the NuVasive


Incorporated First Quarter 2006 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are


in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentations.


If anyone should require operator assistance during the conference, please press star zero on your


telephone keypad. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now pleasure to introduce


your host Mr. Nick Laudico of The Ruth Group. Thank you sir, you may begin.


Nick Laudico, IR


Thanks, operator. Welcome to the NuVasive's first quarter earnings conference call. NuVasive's


senior management joining us on the call today will be Alex Lukianov, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; Keith Valentine, President; and Kevin O'Boyle, Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer.


NuVasive cautions you that these statements on this conference call are not a description of


historical facts and are forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions


and other factors which, if they do not materialize or prove correct, could cause NuVasive's results


to differ materially from historical results, or those expressed or implied by such forward-looking


statements. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual growth and results to differ


materially include, but are not limited to, the risk that NuVasive's sales or development projections


may turn out to be incorrect because of unanticipated difficulty in selling products or bringing


products to market, the uncertain process of seeking regulatory approval or clearance for


NuVasive's products or devices, including risks that such process could be significantly delayed,


the possibility that the FDA may require significant changes to NuVasive's products or clinical


studies, the risk that products may not perform as intended and may therefore not achieve


commercial success, the risk that competitors may develop superior products or may have a


greater market position enabling more successful commercialization, the risk that additional clinical


data may call into question the benefits of NuVasive's products to patients and surgeons, and other


risks and uncertainties more fully described in NuVasive's press releases and periodic filings with


the Securities and Exchange Commission. NuVasive's public filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission are available at www.sec.gov. NuVasive assumes no obligation to update


any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date on which it


was made.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Alex Lukianov.


Alex Lukianov, Chairman, CEO


Thanks Nick, and thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon for our first quarter 2006 call.


The quarter was a successful one for NuVasive. We achieved robust revenue growth, continued


our focus on training of spine surgeons, increased our percentage of vertically integrated hospital


and most importantly made tremendous progress on our transition for the sales force exclusivity.


Before outlining these initiatives, let me take a moment to briefly review our strong financial


performance for the first quarter. Revenue for the fourth quarter was 19.7 million, an increase of


48.3% from the same quarter last year, and ahead of guidance of between 18.5 and 19.0 million.


Our gross margin for the quarter remains strong at 80.3%. Our CFO Kevin O'Boyle will discuss the


financials and key performance indicators in more detail following my remarks. I will now take a few


moments to outline our progress during the quarter on a number of important strategic initiatives.


First, our transition for sales force exclusivity. As we have previously stated, our goal is to achieve
raw transcript


Nuvasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


exclusivity through the creation of a hybrid sales force of direct area business managers, ABMs and


exclusive distributors. At the end of the first quarter, 84% of principals selling our products were


ABMs or exclusive distributors. We have largely completed this goal, which is well on track to meet


our stated guidance of 90% exclusivity by the end of the second quarter of 2006. The 84%


exclusivity figure translates into over 150 sales personnel exclusively selling our products meaning


they are committed to selling only NuVasive spine surgery products. Our new ABMs and exclusive


distributors are quickly moving up the learning curve on the NuVasive product platforms including


the nine new products we launched in 2005. As our exclusive sales force increases its familiarity


with our products, we expect to see increased traction in the marketplace. This can be validated by


the continued progress made on our vertical products integration strategy. At the end of the first


quarter, 30% of hospitals were vertically integrated versus 29% in Q4, 2005. This compares to our


full-year 2006 vertical integration guidance provided on our fourth quarter 2005 call of between 35%


and 38%. We define a vertically integrated hospital as one using at least one product from each of


our MAS platform product lines of NeuroVision, SpheRx, MaXcess and specialized implants. We


are extremely pleased with the leadership and quality of our sales force and the early progress they


have made in achieving a stronger market presence of NuVasive products. While we expect the


cost associated with our sales force transition will continue through the third quarter of 2006, we


remain on track to meet our stated breakeven guidance of fourth quarter 2006. Kevin O'Boyle will


provide more detail in his financial review. Training spine surgeons on our MAS platform continues


to be a major focus. We trained 132 surgeons during the first quarter compared to 91 surgeons in


the first quarter of 2005. The significant increase in surgeons trained during the first quarter is


partially attributable to an extended visit from Dr. Lewis Pomenta [ph], who conducted several


training sessions in January. Doctor Pomenta is an industry pioneer who generates significant


spine surgeon training demand when he visits the US from Brazil. We have stretched surgeon


training to return to a more normalized rate for the remainder of 2006 as we remain on track with


our stated guidance of 400 surgeons trained during the year. Surgeons visiting San Diego learn our


proprietary XLIF procedure and receive training on our newly launched products such as MaXcess


II and SpheRx DBR. We are pleased with the early market success of the products we launched in


2005.


In March of 2006, we announced the launch of our Gradient Plus Anterior Cervical Plating System.


The system was developed internally as a next generation enhancement of the Gradient CLP


dynamic cervical plate, which we originally acquired from RSB Spine in June 2005. Gradient Plus


allows spine surgeons to choose during the procedure between prefixation [ph] option based on the


surgical requirement, fixed, semi constrained or dynamic. We believe this is the only system on the


market to allow intraoperative selection of all three plate styles eliminating the surgeon's need to


use separate systems for each desired fixation option. This customizable system can be used for a


wide range of applications from single level up to five level fusion of the cervical spine. As


previously discussed we have IDE applications pending for our NeoDisc and Cerpass


investigational devices. We believe NeoDisc affords NuVasive the opportunity to be first to the US


market with a nuclear select device designed to preserve motion in the cervical spine. The device is


very simple to implant and could fill the gap between presurgical treatment and TDR or cervical


spine fusion. Cerpass incorporates a ceramic design that we believe increases durability and


eliminates debris problems and will afford simple surgical placement. We anticipate receiving an


IDE for both Neo Disc and Cerpass in the second half of 2006. We are also extremely excited


about our lateral lumbar, TDR product which will enable a surgeon to perform a TDR via our unique


lateral approach. As many of you know that current lumbar artificial discs are designed to be


implanted in an anterior fashion bringing the same major dissection and length of hospital stay


associated with traditional anterior lumbar fusion surgery. The preliminary clinical data on our


lateral TDR will be presented by Dr. Pomenta [ph] at the Spine Arthroplasty Society meeting in


Montreal next month. I would now like to address the recent CMS issuance of inpatient prospective


payment system proposals. As many of you know there was a modest overall reduction in


payments for spinal fusion DRG codes proposed for fiscal year 2007. We expect that the current


proposal gets implemented would have little to no effect on our long-term financial or operational


goals. To elaborate on this point, we believe that there is little evidence that the cost based or