raw transcript


Nuvasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings. Ladies and gentlemen and, thank you for holding. Welcome to today's


NuVasive Incorporated Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal


presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a remainder this conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr. Nick Laudico, of the Ruth Group. Thank you Mr.


Laudico, you may begin.


Nick Laudico, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Ruth Group


Thanks operator, welcome to the NuVasive second quarter earnings conference call. NuVasive


senior management, joining us on the call today will be Alex Lukianov, the Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; Keith Valentine, the President; and Kevin O'Boyle, Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer.


This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involves risks, uncertainties, assumption and, other


factors which, if they do not materialize or prove correct could cause NuVasive's results to differ


materially from historical results or those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed


forward-looking statements.


The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual growth and results to differ materially


include but are not limited to: the rapidly changing and competitive nature of the medical device


industry, NuVasive's ability to convince surgeons to use it's products, the ability of patients to obtain


third-party reimbursement for surgical procedures employing NuVasive's products, risks related to


government regulations of medical devices, risks related to NuVasive's ability to effectively manage


the growth of it's business, risks related to the ownership and enforcement of intellectual property


rights, NuVasive's ability to successfully develop new products and other risks and uncertainties


more fully described in NuVasive's annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission, and NuVasive's prospectus filed pursue into rule 424 under the Securities


Act of 1933.


NuVasive's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at


www.sec.co. NuVasive assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect


events or circumstances arising after the date on which it was may. With then I would like to turn


the call over to Alex Lukianov.


Alexis Lukianov, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Nick and thank you to everyone for joining us this afternoon for our second quarter call. We


are extremely pleased with our results for the second quarter of 2005. It was and active quarter for


NuVasive which we believe reflects the opportunities we see for our products and the potential to


acquire new technologies in the dynamic spine area. We believe these opportunities will help us to


execute our strategy of offering spine surgeons not only a complete sweet of products but cutting


edge technology to improve surgical efficiency and increased patient benefits.


Our objective is to consistently develop or acquire new technologies we believe was the period to


what is now available in the market while at the same time maintaining the momentum in training
raw transcript


Nuvasive, Inc.
 
NUVA
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


surgeons and enhancing our distribution network. Two key indicators of our strong progress are


focused on surgeon training and our ability to rapidly introduce new products.


During the second quarter we are trying to 119 spine surgeons in our operating theater introduce


new products that expanded our MAS platform for percutaneous application filed in IDE with the


FDA for a motion preserving surpass total this replacements and acquired new dynamic played


technology that expanded our products offerings to spine surgeons.


Before going into detail I will provide some brief financial highlights from the quarter. Revenue for


the second quarter was $15 million, an increase of 70.7% from the same quarter last year and up


15.1% from the first quarter of 2005. We are particularly pleased with the continued strength of our


gross margin which stood at 78.9% for the second quarter including the charge of $497,000 related


to our acquisition of the RSB Spine cervical plate. Excluding this charge our gross margins stood at


82.2%. the strong margin was driven by our product mix with Maximum Access Surgery or MAS


representing 84% of revenues and Classic Fusion representing 16%. The particularly robust growth


in MAS revenues in corresponding marginal expansion is due to new record sales levels of our key


product line such as NeuroVision disposables. The growth is due to strong surgeon reception and


demand for our recently launched SpheRx DBR percutaneous pedicle screw system.


We trained 119 surgeons during the quarter for a total of 200 trained in the first half of 2005


compared to 202 surgeons trained during all of 2004. We remained on track to reach our stated


goal of over 425 surgeons trained in 2005. Our new operating theatre which we opened in the first


quarter has been a major contributor to accelerating training momentum and surgeons voting


remains strong. I should remind to you although the third quarter will be impacted by the


seasonality of the business and we are certainly experiencing and expected slow down in the


summer months from the second quarter which should rebalance in the fourth quarter as planned.


Our Chief Financial Officer Kevin O'Boyle will discuss the financials and key performance indicators


or KPIs in more detail following my remarks. Before turning over to Kevin, I want to review the


technology we introduced and acquired so far this year as well as developments to date and


expected milestones. The first half of 2005 was productive period for NuVasive in expanding the


breadth of our products and technology. First, our SpheRx DBR percutaneous pedicle screw


system, which we launched in the second quarter, quickly experienced significant demand from


surgeons in revenues ahead of our initial expectations. SpheRx is the only pedicle screw system on


the market, eliminating persage [ph] joint impinishment [ph] and rod overhang. It allows greater


ease of insertion together with less tissue trauma. Surgeons are particularly excited about the


products ability to achieve instrument free compression of vertebrae by simply leveraging the


spherical ends incorporated into the connecting rod.


Second, on the Classic Fusion side, we acquired dynamic cervical plate technology from privately


owned RSB spine as well as to rate [ph] first refusal on a potential pipeline of additional


technologies. The cervical plate which we relaunched during the quarter under the name


SmartPlate Gradient CLP is our first product providing both the benefits of dynamics stabilization


and static succession. This means that the plate offers a superior anomatical fit because it settles in


concert with the settling of the allograft implant, allowing for the spine to form naturally into balance


overtime. We believe this result in less tissue disruption and superior outcome for the patient,


fundamental to this technology is the SmartPlate's Gradient locking mechanism, allowing the


screws to be progressively resistant to actual [ph] compression as healing moves to fusion. Initial


surgeon reaction has been extremely positive and we expect the product to contribute to our


Classic Fusion revenues beginning in the third quarter of 2005. The addition of a cervical plate is


reel positive in allowing us to offer surgeons a comprehensive suite of products; we believe that


broader product offering will be important in driving our long-term strategy to establish a distributor


network exclusive to NuVasive. We have been in discussion with many of our distributors regarding


a transition to exclusivity. To expedite this we are offering enhanced commission based on


performance we have been gratified by the positively reaction to these incentives since we