raw transcript


Nuvasive Inc
 
NUVA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by. Welcome to the NuVasive Inc.


Conference call to review its results for the first quarter ended March 31st, 2005. [Operator


Instructions] I’d now like to turn the call over to Nick Laudico from The Ruth Group, who will read


the safe-harbor statements. Please go ahead sir.


Nick Laudico, The Ruth Group


Thank you, operator. Welcome to the NuVasive first quarter earnings conference call. NuVasive


senior management joining us on the call today will be Alexis Lukianov, Chairman and Chief


Executive Office; Keith Valentine, President and Kevin O'Boyle, Executive Vice President and Chief


Financial Officer.


This conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other


factors which, if they do not materialize or prove correct, could cause NuVasive's results to differ


materially from historical results or those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


All statements, other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed


forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual growth


and results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the rapidly changing and competitive


nature of the medical device industry, NuVasive's ability to convince surgeons to use its products,


the ability of patients to obtain third-party reimbursement for surgical procedures employing


NuVasive's products, risks related to government regulation of medical devices, risks related to


NuVasive's ability to effectively manage the growth of its business, risks related to ownership and


enforcement of intellectual property rights, NuVasive's ability to successfully develop new products,


and other risks and uncertainties more fully described in NuVasive's Annual Report on Form 10-K


filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and NuVasive's prospectus filed pursuant to


Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933.


NuVasive's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at


www.sec.gov. NuVasive assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect


events or circumstances arising after the date on to which it was made. With that I would like to


turn the call over to Alex Lukianov,


Alexis V. Lukianov, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Nick, and thank you to every one for joining us this afternoon for our first quarter call. The


first quarter of 2005, on both financial and operational basis was a success. We achieved robust


financial results and launched the first of several planned products achieved solid results on our


key performance indicators, APIs, and we made substantial progress training both spine surgeons


and sales representatives.


First some brief financial highlights. We reported revenue for the first quarter of 13.1 million and


increase of 72.2% from the same quarter, last year, and up 10.5% from the fourth quarter of 2004.


W e are particularly pleased with our gross margin, which increase to 79.9%, an 890 basis point


increase year-over-year. Maximum Access Surgery or MAS represented 76% of our first quarter


revenues and Classic Fusion the balance or 24%. The MAS revenue increase in the contribution


mix of products within MAS were the major contributors to gross margin expansion, in particular, we


saw strong contributions from NeuroVision disposables and specialized implants sales. This


correlates with our strategy of vertical integration. Our CFO, Kevin O'Boyle, will thus discuss the


financials in more detail following my remarks.
raw transcript


Nuvasive Inc
 
NUVA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Several factors contributed to our strong performance this quarter. Let me mention a few of them


and then we’ll elaborate on each. The strong reception of our new state-of-the-art operating theatre


has made an enormous contribution to the number of spine surgeons we continue to train on our


MAS platform. The initiation and implementation of the diligent follow-up, allows us to stay in touch


with the surgeons following their Marquis visit [ph] program for in here [ph] and San Diego and


vertical integration has continued to increase through our MAS platform consistent with


NeuroVision and MaXcess disposables and specialized implants.


In January, we moved in to our new facility that offered several advantages to our growing


business. The facility tripled the space we have available and added our expanded and


technologically advanced operating room theatre to accelerate surgeon adoption. It also provides


us with additional capacity to accommodate the warehousing and distribution of products,


instrument sets and implants. It tripled our fabrication capabilities for instrument prototyping, and


our ability to respond to surgeons for product specifications in the real time. We expect that we will


see an increase throughout 2005 from surgeons who require customized instrumentation. The


results of these improvements in our absolute responsiveness culture were demonstrated in our


first quarter activity, particularly, it allowed us to meet the demand for surgeon education and


training on our MAS portfolio of products.


In 2004, we trained a total of 202 surgeons double the number we trained in 2003. In the first


quarter of 2005, a total of 91 surgeons were trained in our new State-of-the-art facility on our MAS


platform almost doubled the 47 trained in the fourth quarter of 2004. We have trained 393


surgeons, since 2003, and anticipate that this strong growth trend will continue and we maintain our


guidance of training over 425 surgeons in 2005. As we discussed last quarter the operating


theaters also integral to training our sales representatives. We have seen these training programs


translate into both revenues and strong relationships with the surgeons. In the first quarter we


trained 55 sales representatives, in our seven-day NuVasive sales force.


Most importantly, we made improvements in our follow-up procedures with the surgeons once they


have completed training. This dedicated group we put in place a few months ago to conduct this


follow-up and to accommodate surgeons in scheduling training has indeed had a positive impact on


our business.


Our accelerated investment in training cost has started to provide favorable trends. As it relates to


our revenue mix at MAS, the Classic Fusion, we continue to see an increase in the MAS


contribution to revenues. The products we have added to the platform as well as the rapid


enhancements and prototypes we are able to provide spine surgeons through our absolute


responsiveness culture have all contributed to our MAS platform penetration. Once surgeons


experience the benefits our MAS platform products can offer, it creates a pull through of other


products. We expect this vertical integration to continue as we introduce more products during


2005.


One year ago, our MAS potential for surgery revenue was approximately $5,000 per lumbar level.


It can now range from $10,000 to $12,000 due to CoRoent and SpheRx implants being pulled


through by our MaXcess and NeuroVision product launch. As we have said previously we’ve


planned to launch nine new products in 2005. The first of these products was introduced in the first


quarter, which was tapered CoRoent. Our CoRoent products are made of Peek, which was cleared


last year by the FDA for partial vertebral body replacement. Our tapered CoRoent products allow


easy posterior and posterior lateral insertion in the lumbar spine due to their angular design. We


will be launching additional CoRoent products later in the year.


The second new product this year is on track for launch in the second quarter. That will be our


SpheRx Dual Ball Rod, DBR system for percutaneous posterior fixation. We outlined this product


for you in detail last quarter. It is designed to compete directly with the products in the market like