raw transcript


Nuvasive Inc
 
NUVA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the NuVasive Incorporated


Conference Call to review its results for fourth quarter and full year-ended December 31st 2004.


[operator instructions]. I'd now like to turn the call over to Nick Ledico [ph] from Ruth Group.


Nick Ledico [ph], Ruth Group


Thank you operator. Welcome to the NuVasive fourth quarter and full year earnings conference


call. NuVasive’s senior management joining us on the call today will be Alex Lukianov, Chairman


and Chief Executive Officer; Keith Valentine, President; and Kevin O'Boyle, Executive Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer. This conference call contains forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that involve certain risks,


assumptions and other factors which if they do not materialize or prove correct could cause


NuVasive's results to differ materially from historical results or those expressed or implied by such


forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements


that could be deemed forward-looking statements.


The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially include but


are not limited to, the rapidly changing and competitive nature of the medical device industry,


NuVasive's ability to convince surgeons to use its products, the ability of patients to obtain third-


party reimbursement for surgical procedures employing NuVasive's products, risks related to


government regulation of medical devices, risks related to NuVasive's ability to effectively manage


the growth of its business, risks related to ownership and enforcement of intellectual property rights,


NuVasive's ability to successfully develop new products, and other risks and uncertainties more


fully described in NuVasive's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission and NuVasive’s prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of


1933 as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 13, 2004.


NuVasive's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at


www.sec.gov. NuVasive assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect


events or circumstances arising after the date on which it was made. With that I would like to turn


the call over to Alexis Lukianov.


Alexis V. Lukianov, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Nick and thank you to everyone who has joined us on this call this afternoon. We are proud


of our accomplishments throughout 2004. We delivered robust financial and operating performance


and made significant progress on our key strategic initiatives for the year. First some brief financial


highlights. We reported revenue for the full year of 38.4 million, which represents an increase of


69.5% from the full year 2003. This revenue translated into gross margin for the full year of 28.2


million, an increase of 78% over 2003 with a gross margin of 73.4% up 350 basis points from our


gross margin in 2003. For Q4 2004, the company recorded revenues of 11.8 million with a gross


margin of 75.6%. This strong quarter represents revenue of 16% quarter-to-quarter growth and


78% year-over-year.


We are especially pleased with the performance of our MAS product platform, which accounted for


73% of 2004 sales versus 27% for Classic Fusion. In Q4 MAS sales accounted for 77% of our


sales mix, while Classic Fusion was 23% in response to effective sales promotions. Our MAS


product mix target remains at 75% of sales plus or minus 2 to 3 points related to various product


promotions and incentives throughout the year. Our CFO, Kevin O'Boyle will discuss the financials
raw transcript


Nuvasive Inc
 
NUVA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


in more detail following my remarks. There are several strategic growth initiatives, I will tell you


about including the strong momentum we achieved during the year in training surgeons on our


MAS platform, the enhanced vertical integration of MAS, the success we achieved in differentiating


ourselves from competitors with our absolute responsiveness approach and the progress we


achieved on developing our product pipeline.


First and foremost to our growth strategy is the training of spine surgeons. In 2004, we trained 202


surgeons, double the number from 2003. Our experienced team delivered comprehensive hands-


on training in our cadaver operating theatre throughout the year. Following training, the subsequent


use of our products continues to accelerate. In 2005, we expect to train over 425 surgeons due to


increased demand and capacity in our expanded cadaver operating theatre that has just been


opened in our new 63,000 square foot facility. We now have the capability to train 6 individual


surgeons at a time and up to 24 surgeons in a workshop setting. This state-of-the-art operating


theater will also be integral to the training of our sales representatives. We plan to train over 200


NuVasive representatives in 2005 in our 7-day NuVasive sales school.


Our commitment to world-class training is of paramount importance because we believe these


programs will translate into both revenues and relationships for success in 2005 and beyond. Apart


from our current 8 regional sales directors, group director of training, and sales and marketing


managers we have added a national sales group director to assist our Vice President of Sales. We


have also assembled a dedicated group to manage all surgeon marketing visits on nearly a 24/7


basis to accommodate surgeon's schedules from across the United States. We are also hiring eight


NeuroVision development managers one in each sales region with infield training of our sales force


and to continue to support this key market differentiator. The vertical integration of our MAS


platform was enhanced with the launch of several new products.


Specifically, NeuroVision dynamic screw test DST and Nerve Root Retractor, SpheRx pedicle


screw system and MaXcess Micro-Access. These products help to increase our market penetration


and produce strong initial revenues. The continuos introduction of technologically differentiated


products is critical to our application for innovation and to develop broader relationships with the


surgeon community. It also allows the cross selling opportunities of multiple products that we


believe will result in our anticipated revenue growth. Surgeon feedback on these products has been


very positive. Our team of development engineers driven by market input remains focused on


developing additional features and functions through existing products and continuously advancing


our technology with new product to ensure that we are always increasing our competitive


advantage.


We've planned to once again move our standard higher by launching nine new products in 2005 all


designed in concept with top clinicians. Our plan key products releases to predominantly drive the


MAS platform for this year are as follows. Expansion of our Pedicle Screw System SpheRx, with a


Dual-Ball Rod, DBR as its called, system launch in the second quarter. The recently launched


SpheRx system has a ball on the end of the rod to engage the pedicle screw and add simple


angulation without impinging on the facet, which is attractive to surgeons. SpheRx is typically used


with the MaXcess retractor system as part of our less disrupted MAS approach. DBR has a ball on


either end of the rod to connect the pedicle screws. The DBR insertion instrumentation is for


percutaneous application to compete directly with the sextant [ph] and pathfinder products in a


manner that we believe is superior due to eliminating facet impingement and rod overhang while


allowing greater ease of insertion and less tissue trauma.


The launch of our Cervical Plate is scheduled for the second quarter. The NuVasive cervical set is


comprised of an outstanding set of instruments designed for easy placement. The plate can be


applied in a rigged or dynamic load to satisfy surgeon preference and it is low profile for decreased


patient trauma. NeuroVision will receive a new and simpler electrode honors for faster patient


connection as well as an insolated spinal access needle for percutaneous applications in the third


quarter. MaXcess II comprised of additional features and benefits will launch in the fourth quarter