Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert A. Blum — Managing Partner, Lytham Partners LLC
Louis Laflamme — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Opsens, Inc.
Robin Villeneuve — Chief Financial Officer, Opsens, Inc.
Jeffrey S. Cohen — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc.
Douglas Miehm — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Justin Keywood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the OpSens Inc. Reports First Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would like now to turn the conference over to Robert Blum with Lytham Partners. Please go ahead.

All right. Thank you very much and thank you all for joining us today for the OpSens first quarter fiscal 2021 conference call. With us on the call representing the company today are Louis Laflamme, OpSens' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Robin Villeneuve, OpSens' Chief Financial Officer. At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, just a couple of comments. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements that are based on current assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements except as required by law. Information about these risks and uncertainties are included in the company's filings as well as periodic filings with regulators in Canada and the United States, which you can find on SEDAR and the OpSens' website.

Today's discussion will include adjusted financial measures which are non-IFRS measures. They should be considered as a supplement to and not a substitute for IFRS financial measures. Finally, today's event is being recorded and will be available for replay through both the webcast and conference call dial-in information provided in the press release.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Louis Laflamme, President, Chief Executive Officer for OpSens. Louis, please proceed.

Thank you, Robert, and good morning to all of you. We are excited to speak with you today for our first quarter fiscal 2021 conference call. Let me also take a minute to greet the French-speaking audience.

[Foreign Language] (00:02:24-00:02:32).

As many of you are aware, this is just our second investment community conference call. We conducted our first call in November where we spent some added time providing background on the business and on our strategies. We will try to keep our prepared remarks a bit more brief going forward and allow additional time for your questions.

With that said, I continue to be very pleased with the achievements made by the team at OpSens over the past quarter as we achieved solid double-digit top line growth and profitability, both on a net income and EBITDAO basis. Specifically, revenue was up 19% during the first quarter at CAD 8.3 million, while improving the profitability of the company with net income increasing by CAD 2.5 million.

Considering we are still dealing with the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic that has caused temporary closure of several cardiology laboratories, these positive results clearly reflect the continued confidence of our customers and partners in our team, products and leading-edge technologies.

As we look to the future of OpSens, we continue to accelerate the medical development activities in preparation for our entry in the aortic stenosis market for the transcatheter replacement of the aortic valve, more commonly referred to as TAVR or TAVI.

Our next-generation guidewire will provide the medical community with innovative, first-of-its-kind technology for the improved treatment of cardiovascular disease that will allow us to compete in the fastest growing market in cardiology, a CAD 4 billion global market opportunity, growing more than 40% per year.

So, with the solid financial performance during the first quarter within our commercialized operation and continued progress in our TAVR development program, we are laying the foundation for a successful fiscal 2021 and beyond. We continue to remain highly optimistic about the long-term prospects for OpSens to deliver a life-changing medical technology to improve patient outcomes.

Let's dive a bit deeper into what some of the key drivers were during the first quarter. Sales within our coronary artery stenosis measurement line of business, FFR and dPR, were CAD 5.3 million during the first quarter, an increase of 23%. We saw strong continued adoption in the US, where sales were up 31%. This is a direct result of our concentrated efforts to expand and enhance our market share in the US, and the first quarter's results clearly show the results of those efforts are gaining traction.

As we discussed last quarter, we recently signed the first of what we expect to be a series of group purchasing organization, or GPO contracts, to expand our presence in the US. The three-year contract with a major GPO will provide its medical facilities immediate access to the OptoWire and our services to all their 50 members across US. We believe this recognition is a validation of OptoWire's ability to improve efficiency and reduce costs in the treatment of coronary artery stenosis.

We are currently working on negotiating with other GPOs and expect to be signing additional GPO contracts in the coming year to enhance our market share in US. Another key effort is to widely educate the medical community on the benefits of the OptoWire. That will lead to increasing the number of hospitals utilizing the OptoWire in their suite of services for the improved treatment of cardiovascular disease.

It is important to note that only a small portion of the increase during the first quarter is related to the new GPO contract, which was signed in the previous quarter. We hope that continued growth from the GPO agreement, coupled with greater overall awareness and usage, will drive solid growth in US going forward.

Sales in EMEA were up 15%, while Japan was up [ph] 33% (00:07:56) during the quarter. The increase in Japan was generated in part by sales of OptoMonitor III units. As previously stated, we continue to work through the transition project with our partners to facilitate the conversion from OptoMonitor II to OptoMonitor III in this region.

As we look to the rest of the year, while there continues to be headwind effects from the pandemic, our teams are in constant communications with partners, physicians and distributors, and we generally have a positive outlook for fiscal year 2021 for a ramp up in OptoMonitor procedures. Overall, we believe we will continue to see growth within the coronary artery stenosis measurement business with continued growth in North America, EMEA and Japan.

Transitioning to our business partnerships [ph] for enrollment (00:09:00). As most of you are aware, several companies are integrating OpSens' sensors into their products used in medical applications, including Abiomed's integration of our pressure sensor into their Impella pump. Overall, when you include our coronary artery stenosis business plus the contributions from Abiomed for their ventricular assist device, our Medical segment sales was up CAD 7.3 million during the first quarter.

Let's now discuss the performance of our Industrial segment. [ph] Today recall (00:09:43), in this segment, we are leveraging our optical technology and knowledge through our wholly-owned subsidiary called Opsens Solutions to offer key solution in optical, temperature, pressure, strain and other parameters for various industries including aerospace, nuclear and power electronics.

During the quarter, Opsens Solutions achieved its highest quarterly revenues since 2016 at CAD 1 million compared to CAD 528,000 in the comparative quarter. These revenues were mainly generated in aerospace and power electronic application for temperature and pressure measurements.

While I do not expect this doubling of revenues in the industrial sector to be a trend at this time, we are making significant efforts to bring to market key product application within our Industrial division that can be agile drivers for revenues, profitability and long-term value creation.

Let us transition to our lead development program now and recap for just a moment. As we looked to capitalize on the expertise we acquired in the development of the OptoWire product for cardiology, we developed a strategic plan to launch a commercial product for the TAVR. In multiple studies, minimally-invasive TAVR has shown to be non-inferior or superior to open chest surgical aortic valve replacement, including reduction in hospital stay and decrease in death for both high- and low-risk patients.

These are critical elements in managing healthcare costs and improving patient outcomes. This is the fastest-growing segment in cardiology, expected to grow at a 43% compound annual growth rate between 2019 to 2025 to reach $8 billion, driven by an aging population, better clinical outcomes, and openness to new evidence that people of all health conditions benefit from this minimally-invasive treatment.

Our TAVR guidewire allows for a single wire to diagnose and deliver the valve, reducing complications, saving time and money through its flawless connectivity capabilities. In fact, it would be the industry's first guidewire that can deliver the valve and allow for continuous pressure measurement. This concept has been very well received by a panel of international healthcare experts, and we believe our TAVR guidewire can be a game-changer for the treatment of cardiovascular disease.

While only a few months have passed since our last call, let me remind all of you where we are on the development pathway. We have recently completed key milestone for the project, including the completion of multiple animal studies of the TAVR guidewire before starting our first-in-man trial. The first-in-man trial is expected to happen at the end of the summer 2021. We are highly focused on rapidly bringing this product and ultimately to the market with an expectation to receive regulatory approvals to the market as early as 2022.

So just to recap a bit before I turn it over to Robin. I am pleased with the overall progress made during the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Total revenue was up 19%, led by 31% growth in coronary artery stenosis revenues in US. Every region we operate in showed growth during the quarter. We achieved profitability on a net income basis. And our cash balance remained strong, increasing by CAD 1.3 million during the quarter.

We believe we are [ph] checking (00:14:38) the boxes on a number of key commercialization initiatives to grow OptoWire across the globe, including the introduction of OptoWire III outside North America, as I mentioned, along with the signing of key GPO contracts and overall adoption and improved utilization by hospitals in US.

And perhaps, most importantly, we continue to make progress on the development of the industry's first TAVR guidewire that has the ability to allow for a single wire to both diagnose and deliver the valves for the treatment of aortic valve stenosis as we look to enter this potential CAD 8 billion and rapidly growing segment in cardiology. I continue to believe we are on pace for a very exciting fiscal 2021 with a number of value creation milestones in store.

Let me now turn the call over to Robin for a review of the first quarter 2021 results. Robin?

Thank you, Louis, and thanks to everyone joining us on the call. The company reported sales of CAD 8.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared with CAD 7 million in the same period of fiscal 2020, an increase of 19%.

Sales in the Medical segment, which encompass both our coronary artery stenosis measurement line of business, FFR and dPR, and OEM, which is mainly our agreement with Abiomed for integration of our pressure sensor into their Impella pump, totaled CAD 7.3 million. This was an increase of about CAD 875,000 or 13%. FFR-related sales were up 24%, while the OEM sales were down about CAD 191,000.

Sales in the Industrial segment totaled CAD 1 million during the first quarter compared to sales of CAD 528,000 for the same period last year. While longer term, we believe we will see substantial growth in our Industrial segment. We don't believe we will repeat the CAD 1 million level again in the second quarter.

When you look at gross margins, they were flat compared to the year-ago first quarter at 56%, but up compared to 53% during all of fiscal 2020. We expect to see our gross margin increase when we will have fully implemented OptoWire III in EMEA and Japan.

From an operating expenses standpoint, we continue to efficiently manage the business with overall operating expenses decreasing by CAD 1.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The decrease is largely explained by lower sales and marketing expenses when compared to last year related to the adjustment of the size of our direct sales force in the US due to COVID-19.

Also, please note, we did recognize a non-refundable contribution under the CEWS or Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy program for an amount of just under CAD 500,000. You will see this recognized under other income on the income statement.

Adjusted EBITDAO, which we define as net earning loss plus financial expenses, depreciation of PP&E and right-of-use assets, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation cost was a positive CAD 1.3 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared with a loss of CAD 1.2 million in the first quarter of 2020, a CAD 2.5 million improvement.

Looking at net income, we had a profit of CAD 0.6 million in the first quarter of 2021 compared with a net loss of CAD 1.9 million in the year-ago first quarter. The CAD 2.5 million improvement is due to a CAD 0.8 million increase in gross margin as a result of an increase [ph] in costs, or (00:19:48) CAD 1.2 million decrease in operating cost, and the CAD 500,000 subsidy from the Canadian Government.

Finally, we have CAD 12.2 million in cash on the balance sheet and working capital is at CAD 17.5 million as of November 30, 2020. These are both improvements from the August 31, 2020 period.

With that, I will turn the call over to Louis.

Thank you, Robin. So, in conclusion, I want to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication, and our shareholders for their continued support. We had a very strong first quarter and, I believe, we are positioned for a continuation of strong operational results and development milestones through fiscal 2021.

With that said, let me now turn the call over to your questions. Operator?

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeffrey Cohen with Ladenburg Thalmann. Please go ahead.

Hi, Louis and Robin. How are you?

Very good. And you, Jeff?

Good. Good. So, I just want to [ph] follow (00:21:36) through five or six questions. Did you have any large one-time orders to note for the quarter?

In the medical device business, as you know, usually, it's a good quantity of small orders. So nothing that would be relevant. It's more really [indiscernible] (00:22:00) regular business that happens in the Medical. In the Industrial, there was maybe one order for approximately CAD 350,000. That was, let's say, a very positive surprise. It is an exciting acquisition, but as per se, it was a single and non-recurring [ph] order (00:22:24).

Got it. Okay. Nice rebound on the gross margins versus Q4. We continue to anticipate full year 2021 in line with this quarter that you reported. Would that be okay? Does that seem aggressive or not?

No. Sure. We think there is room to do better. I mean, we are comfortable with your current anticipation. But as we increase the roll out of the OptoWire III in the Japanese and the European market, this should help us to see even higher margin.

Got it. Can you give us any guesstimate from the field on dPR traction and dPR usage if you were trying to guesstimate out there? Is it being used in what percent of cases, do you think?

It's a little bit difficult for us because when we sell the OptoWire devices, we don't know if they are going to do FFR or dPR. But based on the feedback that we get from our customers, we think that the dPR users in US is probably 75% or 80% of our volume, while we may be in [ph] a position (00:23:49) where it's more 50/50 in Europe. And in Japan, our perception is that it's probably 80% doing FFR. But at the end of the day, for us, as you know, it's the same device that is being used, the same monitor. So, at OpSens, we have the duty to provide the choice to our customers. And I think that [ph] – what they (00:24:19) appreciate is that they can adapt their procedure based on their needs.

Got it. Could you talk a little about the US commercial force currently that's [ph] in place in (00:24:30) Q1?

I mean, the – we don't disclose the number of our sales force. What we can say is that, right now, we feel we are properly covering our existing customers. We probably expect to have a certain number of persons, probably maybe five additional persons down the road, as we get a better picture of the vaccine success and the – seeing the cath labs being – working on their backlog of patients following the COVID-19 situation.

Yeah. Got it. And then, finally, as far as the top line goes, we're still anticipating year-over-year, 2021 over 2020, top line growth of, call it, mid-teens at the moment, which looks moderately linear and sequential in growth throughout the four quarters. Does that seem reasonable to you? Or would you guide us one way or another? Talk a little bit about the cadence for the year.

Well, we don't disclose, as you know, [ph] a current time for gas to the street (00:25:44). This being said, when we look at the results of Q1, I mean, we are pleased with our results. But there is multiple areas where we think we could have done even better. Again, COVID-19 has been a kind of a headwind. But, I mean, COVID-19 has been negatively impacting our growth. We are expecting to see growth for the Q2, Q3 and Q4.

Got it. And on the OpEx front, Robin, I think we're 1 point or 2 points from a flat line on the total OpEx for 2021 versus 2020. Looked like 2020 over 2019 was down, total OpEx down 3.5%. So, I think we're thinking of – from that to a flat line. Does that also seem reasonable at this point in time?

Yeah, on the OpEx side, we will have higher expenses in the R&D related to our TAVR project because we will start the manufacture of the [ph] VMV (00:27:13) products. So, we will have higher expenses than the [ph] Q1, for sure (00:27:23).

Got it. Okay. That does it for me. Nice read-out.

In general, if I can add, from an SG&A standpoint, we feel that the Q1 result was fairly representative of what you can expect overall in the year. As Robin mentioned clearly, as we are very excited to manufacture currently devices for the [ph] VMV (00:27:50) on the TAVR project, this will generate some increased cash for Q2.

Got it. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you, Jeff.

Our next question will come from Doug Miehm with RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, Louis. Hi, Robin.

Good morning, Doug.

Good morning. I guess what's left is just a few questions on the situation around the TAVR product. Now, you indicated that you're going to start your first-in-man studies probably at the end of the summer, but could you tell us how many patients you expect to review in those trials?

Yeah. Sure. So, we have the opportunity to start with the FDA. The expectation that they have is to see OpSens doing a 20-patient first-in-man study to demonstrate the safety of the device. So, we think that this can be done fairly rapidly in the context where we are working with [ph] centers having (00:29:12) significant volume. So, we don't see 20 patients being a long study. And the study that we need to do, there is no follow-up since it's only the safety during the procedure.

So, we are going to give our best to perform this as soon as we can and as rapidly as we can because we think it will be a significant value driver for us. To date, I mean the feedback that we get from top key opinion leaders in the field is that there is a very strong need for the concept that we are bringing. So, for us, we think it's very strategic.

Okay. Perfect. That's a nice segue into my next question with respect to the marketplace today. The physicians are calling for a product like this. Perhaps you could tell us what is available on the market today and why they would prefer a product like this.

Well, today, I would say that the [indiscernible] (00:30:22) from Boston Scientific or the Confida from Medtronic, those wires are wires that can only deliver the valve. In the case of OpSens' concept, we are going to be able to have the same mechanical performance to deliver the valve, but at the same time, we will be able to measure, in a continuous manner, pressure to display that to the physician using the OptoMonitor, and also to calculate some algorithm that will give the opportunity for the physician to appreciate the – if they get the pressure [ph] gradient, the regularization (00:31:13) that they want from their valve implementation.

Perfect. And then, finally, just with respect to the introduction in this product perhaps in 2022, but we don't exactly know. Is it your intention to introduce that using your own sales force or would you expect this to be part of a future licensing agreement?

I mean, there is already some [indiscernible] (00:31:48) around licensing agreement. It is a possibility, but I would say that the current plan where OpSens is having the full control is to use the existing [ph] sales force (00:32:01) that we have. So, we have a direct sales force in North America. We have distributors in EMEA and Japan. And we think this sales channel can be used to efficiently deliver our [ph] target (00:32:19) product to the field.

And when we decided to develop this product [ph] that the concept of putting another product in bag (00:32:27) of our sales people was something important, especially in the context where this product can be sold to the same customers. And we think it will make us more relevant for our customers, more relevant also with our GPO discussion. And on top of that, it will make easier the task of bringing our [ph] territory managers (00:32:55) to profitability. So at this time, I would say we still have to evaluate both options, but we are very comfortable with both in the context of the benefits that we would get from each option.

Okay. Thanks very much.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Justin Keywood with Stifel. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thanks for taking my call. I just had a couple of questions, clarification just around the comments on growth in the sales and marketing expenses. So, if I heard correctly, you expect growth this year for each of the quarters. I guess, my first question, is that sequential growth or year-over-year?

It's both. So, we think we will grow sequentially and we will also grow with the comprehensive year.

Okay. Thank you. And then the comments on – and if I heard this correctly, the sales and marketing being relatively flat, is that correct?

I mean, you can expect a certain increase in sales and marketing expenses, but this increase won't be as significant in the overall consolidated figures of OpSens.

Okay. And if I interpret, is that just executing on maybe pent-up orders that were perhaps deferred from last year where you don't need that extra sales and marketing expense? Would that be a correct interpretation?

I mean, we are doing both. I mean, we are serving our existing customers, but we – the plan for OpSens is also based on adding new accounts, new partners. The GPO initiative is also a way to expand our customer base. And as we get more success with this, we'll increase our sales force, which will generate some additional expenses. But, overall, for the full year, based on the total revenue that we are doing, it won't be major.

Okay. And what would be the indicator that you're looking else for to increase the sales and marketing team again? Given still a dynamic situation with the coronavirus, like, is there any metric that you would look to, to possibly increase your sales force again?

Well, obviously, the virus is having some impact on this decision, and after that our capability to [ph] properly (00:35:56) serve our new GPO partners and our customers and also the speed of opening new accounts. So, those are indicators that will make our decision easy to add additional people.

Okay. Understood. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you, Justin.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Louis Laflamme for any closing remarks.

Okay. So, thank you to all participants of this [ph] second (00:36:33) conference call of OpSens on earnings. We really appreciate your presence. And we think the next few quarters will be very exciting for us. So, thanks for attending, and looking forward to be in contact with you.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.