Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert A. Blum — Managing Partner, Lytham Partners LLC
Louis Laflamme — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Opsens, Inc.
Robin Villeneuve — Chief Financial Officer, Opsens, Inc.
Rahul Sarugaser — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Douglas Miehm — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Justin Keywood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Canada, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day. And welcome to the OpSens, Inc. report Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2021 Financial Results Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Robert Blum with Lytham Partners. Please go ahead.

All right. Thank you, and thank you all very much for joining us during the OpSens second quarter fiscal 2021 conference call. With us on the call, representing the company today are Louis Laflamme, OpSens' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Robin Villeneuve, OpSens' Chief Financial Officer. At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we'll open the call for a question-and-answer session.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, just a couple of comments. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements that are based on current assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected and the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements except as required by law. Information about these risks and uncertainties are included in the company's filings as well as periodic filings with regulators in Canada and the United States, which can be found on SEDAR and OpSens' website.

Today's discussion will include adjusted financial measures which are non-IFRS measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not a substitute for IFRS financial measures. Finally, today's event is being recorded and will be available for replay through both the webcast and conference call dial-in information provided in the press release.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Louis Laflamme, President, Chief Executive Officer for OpSens. Louis, please proceed.

Thank you, Robert, and good morning to all of you. We are excited to speak with you today for our second quarter fiscal 2021 conference call. Let me also take a minute to greet the French-speaking audience.

[Foreign Language] (00:02:30-00:02:40)

Let's move into the highlights for the quarter. Once again, I'm pleased with the strong progress made by the team at OpSens over the past few months. We had revenue growth on a year-over-year basis and we once again delivered profitability on both a net income and EBITDAO basis. Please recall that comparison from a year ago were on a pre-COVID basis. So, to continue to showing growth during the quarter is quite an achievement. When you break down our sales a bit more and look at our OptoWire and related FFR and dPR products for the coronary artery stenosis market, sales increased 17% to CAD 6.1 million. This is a huge testament to the OpSens team that in the face of continued impact from the pandemic which has caused closure of several cardiology laboratories, that we continue to grow – to grow sales and gain market share. Perhaps, even more exciting is that we are seeing growth in nearly all of our key markets. I will touch more on this in a moment.

During the quarter, we also completed a CAD 28.75-million bought-deal, which will help to accelerate our TAVR development and commercialization program. This was a [ph] straight (00:04:19) common offering and the over-allotment was fully oversubscribed. I want to thank the many shareholders that participated in the offering and the confidence they showed in the future prospects of OpSens. We believe the ability to leverage our proprietary optics technology for the benefit of the CAD 4-billion transcatheter replacement of the aortic valve (sic) [Transaortic Aortic-Valve Replacement] (00:04:48) or TAVR market, has the ability to be a game changer both for OpSens, but for the cardiac industry as a whole. I'm excited to have completed this financing, which will help to accelerate this program for commercialization. I will go into more detail in a moment here as well.

At a high level, I'm very pleased with the progress made once again this quarter to deliver solid financial results, make key advancements in our development programs and ultimately drive value for physicians, patients and our investors.

Let's dive a bit – a bit deeper into what some of the key drivers were during the second quarter. As I mentioned, sales within our coronary artery stenosis measurement line of business, FFR and dPR, were CAD 6.1 million during the second quarter. Not only is this a 17% increase from the year ago, second quarter, which was unaffected by COVID, but it was also a 15% sequential increase from the first quarter of 2021. We saw strong continued adoption in the US, where sales were up 9%. This is a direct result of our concentrated efforts to expand and enhance our market share in the US and the second quarter's result clearly show the results of those efforts are gaining traction.

Recently, we signed our second major Group Purchasing Organization or GPO agreement to increase our presence in the US. The three-year contract with Vizient, one of the country's larger GPOs, provides OpSens flagship product, the OptoWire III, access to over 700 cath labs. More simplistically, this is more than half of the healthcare organizations in the country, ranging from large integrated delivery networks and academic medical centers through community hospitals. We were also awarded Vizient New Technology Award. This award, which recognized superior performance of suppliers and [ph] reserves (00:07:28) across a variety of industries, confirms the superior performance of the OptoWire from both a clinical and economical point of view, and further concludes that it helps their members achieve their objectives.

You may recall that last quarter, we signed our third GPO contract, which provided immediate access to the OptoWire and our services throughout their 50 members across the US. Working with optical systems and GPOs has been a key initiative within OpSens, and we are excited to be in a position to serve these two prestigious GPO members. These contracts are a continued recognition that the OptoWire improves efficiency and saves significant costs while aligning with our partner's mission to better treat their patients.

One very important factor to point out is that of the 9% increase we saw during the quarter of OptoWire in the US only a very small portion was attributable to the GPO we signed in October, as we are really just getting ramped up with them. And of course, this agreement with Vizient was signed just last week, so it does not yet have an impact on the financial results. It is our belief that as we get these GPOs ramped up, coupled with the positive results we are obtaining through our traditional direct marketing channels, that we should see an acceleration of revenues moving forward, as we expand our US market share.

Outside the US, [indiscernible] (00:09:18) both strong sales performance, but importantly, also achieved a key milestone with the CE marking for the OptoWire III. Sales in EMEA were up 15%, while Japan was up 31%, 20% excluding OptoMonitor III sales during the quarter. Similar to what we discussed last quarter, the increase in Japan was generated in part by sales of OptoMonitor III units. We continue to work through the transition period with our partners to facilitate the conversion from OptoWire II to OptoWire III in these regions. The CE marking for the OptoWire III yet is another key milestone for the company and continues on our regulatory approvals in US, Japan, Canada and EMEA. Thanks to the OptoWire III new design, our guidewire is even more user-friendly and reliable, which may increase its adoption with EMEA physicians and expand the assessment of cardiovascular artery stenosis using FFR and dPR, which has the ability to result in better diagnoses and treatment for more patients.

In just few weeks that the device has been approved, we have received tremendous feedback from physicians that have transitioned from the OptoWire II to the OptoWire III, saying they consider it an excellent pressure guidewire to access coronary lesion, measure their severity with great accuracy, treat them when indicated, and confirm effectiveness of the PCI.

Further, they say that the OptoWire III provides steerability comparable to [ph] workload's (00:11:16) guidewire, while providing even more accurate, reliable and repeatable measurements and they appreciate the possibilities it offers to measure a variety of [indiscernible] (00:11:29) from FFR to non-hyperemic pressure ratio such as OpSens dPR. Needless to say, the feedback has been very positive. So, we are excited by this approval and believe it can help us continue to increase share in these markets. And we look to the rest of the year.

While there continues to be certain headwinds with effects from the pandemic, our teams are in constant communication with partners, physicians and [ph] its reserves (00:12:06) and they generally have a positive outlook for the rest of fiscal year 2021 for a ramp-up in OptoWire procedures. Overall, we are cautiously optimistic that we have turned the corner as a society with the pandemic, and believe we will continue to see improvement within the coronary artery stenosis measurement business with continued growth in North America, EMEA and Japan.

Transitioning to our business partnerships for a moment. As most of you are aware, several companies are integrating OpSens' sensors into their products used in medical applications, including Abiomed's integration of our pressure sensor into their Impella Pump. Our relationship with Abiomed remains strong and we look forward to many years working together. Overall, when you include our Coronary Artery Stenosis business plus the contribution from Abiomed for their ventricular assist device, our medical segment sales was CAD 7.8 million during the second quarter. This was a 7% sequential increase from the first quarter, and up 7% from the year-ago second quarter.

Let's now discuss the performance of our Industrial segment. Once again, this segment saw very nice performance during the quarter, with revenue of just under CAD 1 million. This follows CAD 1-million in revenue last quarter as well. As a reminder, our Industrial segment, leveraging our optical technology and knowledge through our wholly-owned subsidiary called OpSens Solutions, to offer key solutions in optical, temperature, pressure, strain and other parameters for various industries, including aerospace, nuclear and power electronics.

Revenue in the Industrial segment was driven by military-related sales, as well as sales made as part of our involvement in the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor or ITER project. ITER is the world's largest nuclear fusion and scientific experiment project with 25 nations currently under construction in Southern France and we are honored to have been selected to be part of this important research project. This program is especially exciting as OpSens Solution is supplying our customer, RI Research Instruments with fiber optic absolute and differential pressure sensors that will provide critical information for accurate monitoring of RI's cryogenic valve boxes. The vacuum system for ITER contains several large cryogenic pumps which need to be supplied with liquid helium via cryogenic valve boxes produced by RI.

In total, it is anticipated that there will be a large number of sensors at different levels of the ITER project, for which OpSens sensor technology would be applicable. We are extremely pleased with the back-to-back CAD 1-million revenue quarters from our OpSens Solution operations, and believe there is significant potential looking further out, for our optical sensing technology across a wide variety of applications

Let us transition to our lead development program now, TAVR. If you recall, we looked to capitalize on the expertise we acquired in the development of the OptoWire product for cardiology and develop a strategic plan to launch a commercial product for the transcatheter aortic valve replacement, abbreviated as TAVR, or TAVI. In multiple studies, minimally invasive TAVR is shown to be non-inferior or superior to open-chest surgical aortic valve replacement, including reduction in hospital stay and decrease in death for both high and low-risk patients. These are critical elements in managing healthcare costs and improving patient outcomes. This is the fastest-growing segment in cardiology, expected to grow at a 43% compound annual growth rate between 2019 to 2025, to reach $8 billion driven by an aging population, better clinical outcome and openness to new evidence that people of all health conditions benefit from this minimally invasive treatment.

Our TAVR guidewire allows for a single wire to [ph] diagnose (00:17:45) and deliver the valve, reducing complications, saving time and money through its flawless connectivity capabilities. In fact, it would be the industry's first guidewire that can deliver the valve and allow for continuous pressure measurement. So, where do we stand? We continue to make positive progress in our TAVR development program with our expectations unchanged from what we communicated to you last quarter. We are preparing for our first-in-man study, which is planned for this summer. The studies which are designed to review safety will most probably be held at IUCPQ in Quebec City and at the Montreal Art Institute. They are two of the world's most renowned cardiac centers.

The study which will have 20 patients are expected to enroll quickly and be completed by the end of the summer. Again, this is a 510(k) submission. So we need to demonstrate safety and our ability to deliver the valve consistently compared with the [ph] clinical (00:19:06) device. We will not be conducting any clinical follow-up on patient condition in this study. Again, our expectation is to complete the trial in the summer 2021 with a 510(k) submission to happen by the end of the calendar year 2021. We are hoping for an initial approval in early 2022 in Canada and a few months after for US – US and Europe. We already have competed manufacturing of the devices for the verification and validation phase. We are now doing the appropriate testing on those devices to fulfill the regulatory filing documents.

As I mentioned, the study for approval will be a safety study, however, the benefit of our system is clearly the ability to obtain pressure measurement, utilizing [ph] our wire (00:20:15) and to be able to deliver the valve safely. One final point, while we prepare for those regulatory steps, we are also preparing for the ramp-up production in anticipation of approval in 2022. We want to be able to hit the ground running next year.

So, [ph] all told (00:20:38) we are extremely excited about the progress we have made and the potential opportunities our TAVR guidewire can bring to the market. I look forward to sharing more with you in 2021 and in the future conference calls.

So just to recap a bit before I turn it over to Robin for a more thorough review of the financials, I am pleased with the overall progress made during the second quarter of fiscal 2021. Total revenue was up 7% led by 17% growth in coronary stenosis revenues. Nearly every key region showed growth during the quarter and we once again achieved profitability on a net income basis. We made key commercial progress in the US through the signing of our second major GPO agreement obtained CE marking for the OptoWire III, allowing us to bring our next-generation solution to the large EMEA market.

We also took the important step to significantly bolster the balance sheet through a CAD 28.75-million bought-deal transaction, whose over allotment was completely exercised to allow us to accelerate development of our next TAVR development program.

I want to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication during the quarter as we truly have accomplished a number of very important milestones and developments. But most importantly, there is a lot of work ahead of us and I'm confident we are up to the challenge.

Let me now turn the call over to Robin for a review of the second quarter 2021 results. Robin?

Thank you, Louis, and thanks to everyone joining us on the call. The company reported sales of CAD 8.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2021, compared with CAD 8.3 million in the same period of fiscal 2020, an increase of 7%. This also compared to CAD 8.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Sales in the Medical segment, which encompass both our coronary artery stenosis measurement line of business, FFR and dPR, and OEM, which is mainly our agreement with Abiomed for integration of our pressure sensor into their Impella Pump, totaled CAD 7.8 million. This was an increase of about CAD 480,000 or 7%.

FFR related sales were up 17% while the OEM sales were down about CAD 415,000. Sales in the Industrial segment totaled CAD 979,000 during the second quarter, compared to sales of CAD 908,000 for the same period in 2020 and compared to CAD 1 million in the sequential first quarter. We initially believed we would not repeat another CAD 1 million revenue quarter in our Industrial segment, but continue to be pleasantly surprised by the adoption of our technology in a number of applications. However, I do want to reiterate what we mentioned last quarter, which is we do not expect another CAD 1-million-type quarter again in the third quarter in our Industrial segment. Many of the projects which have longer-term potential are still a bit further away from the larger revenue. So, I just want to reiterate our caution on the expectation there.

When you look at gross margin, they were up slightly to 52% in this year second quarter, compared to 51% in the year-ago second quarter. We expect to see our gross margins further increase once we will have fully implemented OptoWire III in EMEA and Japan. From an operating expenses standpoint, we continue to efficiently manage the business with overall operating expenses decreasing by CAD 1.2 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2021, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2020. The decrease is largely explained by lower sales and marketing expenses, when compared to last year, related to the adjustment of the size of our direct sales force in the United States due to COVID-19.

Also, please note, we did recognize a non-refundable contribution under the CEWS, or Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy Program, for an amount of just under CAD 110,000. You will see this recognized under Other Income in the income statement.

EBITDAO, which we define as net income plus financial expenses, depreciation of PP&E and right of use assets, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation cost was a positive CAD 0.9 million in the second quarter of 2021, compared with the loss of CAD 0.7 million in the second quarter of 2020, a CAD 1.6-million improvement.

Looking at net income, we had a profit of CAD 41,000 in the second quarter of 2021, compared with a net loss of CAD 1.4 million in the year-ago second quarter. The improvement is mainly due to a CAD 300,000 increase in gross margin, as a result of an increase in sales and a CAD-1.2 million decrease in operating costs. Finally, as we mentioned, we completed a CAD 28.75-million bought-deal financing in February 2021. Inclusive of the financing, we had CAD 39.3 million of cash and cash equivalents as of February 28, 2021.

With that, I will turn the call over to Louis.

Thank you, Robin. Operator, let me now turn the call over to any questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Rahul Sarugaser of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Louis and Robin. Thanks so much for taking our questions and congratulations on the very strong quarter.

Good morning, Rahul.

So my first – good morning. So my first question is around the GPO, specifically the most recent GPO, of course, the very large GPO and as you mentioned you just recently signed it. And given the – you know the arc of progress you're making with the GPO you signed back in I believe it was August or September, when do you expect that this newest large GPO should start to impact your revenue?

Yeah. Well, first I would say, you know the first GPO, we are still as excited as we were, but the COVID did not help to accelerate and really catalyze in generating more revenues with this because we had to install the monitors in those centers. In the case of Vizient, obviously it's a larger, larger group. We also have already a good number of customers within that group. So it means that being under contract with Vizient will – can help us to increase the market share in some accounts where we are already there and while also gaining new accounts. So we expect that the Q3 results won't be affected by Vizient because we are already half way through the quarter, but you will see somehow an impact in Q4 and you will see a more [indiscernible] (00:30:37) getting back in Q1 2022.

Terrific. Thanks very much. That's great color. And now refocusing on the TAVR program, you mentioned that you're looking at actually recruiting this summer to complete it hopefully by the end of the summer. Can you give us a little more clarity in terms of your confidence of when you think you might be able to be recruiting first patient into that trial? Do you have an estimate on sort of how much the trial will cost from beginning to end? And given the relatively large balance sheet that you're sitting on right now, which is obviously a position of strength, do you see that that is the primary use of the balance sheet or do you also plan on deploying that balance sheet towards sales and marketing both for OptoWire and then eventually for TAVR – TAVR product?

Okay. That's – there is few questions in the same question. Let's start first with the first in-man. So our goal right now is to file for the initial testing assessment with Health Canada in the month of May and after that, it's just a matter of the time required by Health Canada to assess this filing. So, assuming that it takes maybe a month or two, we should be ready to initiate a study somewhere in July and since it's 20 patients, a population that doesn't have a lot of criteria of rejection, we should be able to do the enrollment quite quickly on this.

Regarding the cost, I mean the cost somehow won't be very significant in the overall financial profile of OpSens. We don't expect this to have a material impact at all on our financial results. Regarding the use of proceeds, obviously the goal here in doing the financing was to be able to accelerate everything we do. From a commercial standpoint, from a pipeline and clinical innovation standpoint, and also for other activities within OpSens. So we think we can invest in our direct sales channels in North America, invest in our research channels in Europe and Japan to increase revenues with the current coronary artery stenosis business. And each time we do investment in having a broader sales channel this would be useful when we will be commercial with the pressure guidewire for TAVR.

Regarding the TAVR project, obviously having a stronger balance sheet may provide us the possibility to have let's say a more aggressive clinical plan to demonstrate the value proposition for a TAVR pressure guidewire and this clinical plan is not fully defined yet, but we should be able to disclose on that, let's say as we progress in the year 2021.

Terrific. Thanks so much for taking our questions. Congratulations again we'll get back in the queue.

Thank you, Rahul.

The next question is from Doug Miehm of RBC Capital Markets.

Hi, good morning, Louis. Good morning, Robin. Just a couple of questions from me. Number one, can you tell us what the predicate devices under the 510(k) for TAVR. And then...

Yeah.

...second question would just be on the commercialization efforts, where your thinking remains there, if it's just going to be yourselves or are you seriously targeting a partner et cetera, et cetera? Thanks very much.

Thank you, Doug. So the predictive devices that we are going to use in our filing are the existing wires that are being used to deliver TAVR. So you have the SAFARI wire from Boston Scientific and the Confida wire from Medtronic. So those would be the two predicate devices. Regarding commercialization, let's say, we got – there is some, let's say, discussion with corporations in the landscape, in the field of structural art that are happening right now. Those discussions are not well-advanced. So, we don't want to generate too much expectation today on the side of the potential partnerships. I would say that, our current plan is really to increase the number of products in our portfolio, to use our current direct sales channels in North America and our [ph] reserve (00:36:17) network for Europe and Japan. We think that the fit between the OptoWire and the pressure guide wire for TAVR is really good and having those two products together will make us more successful.

So, in summary, on your question is that we are open minded on opportunities for business partnership, but we are planning right now to execute with our existing sales force that have been more efficient as we progress.

Okay. Great. And maybe last thing for me is just, has any work being done in TAVR, on a preclinical basis, or other with some of your equipment with potential partners, or is it still too early for that?

I mean, there is some, well, obviously there was animal studies that were done with the same device that we will use for the first-in-man study, so, this was done, and there was also different work done at OpSens in term of understanding the procedure in some case, we can use the OptoWire as a tool to understand the – what would be the result in having our pressure guide wire, so at this time I would say the work clinically have not been substantial, but we should be in a position to report more progress on that in the next earnings call.

Excellent. Okay. Thank you.

The next question will be from Justin Keywood of Stifel GMP.

Good morning, and thanks for taking my call. Just had some additional questions around the GPO. The contribution in Q3, any indication on what the initial sales could be, and how would that progress over the next year? And also, does this change any longer-term goals for OpSens, let's call it the next three to five years?

Okay. So in Q3, the amount of revenues coming from GPO, again, won't be material. When we think about the long-term plan at OpSens, clearly, the various contracts that we have with GPO organization or that we will have on the road will be significant. Our vision is to achieve CAD 100 million in revenues within four to five years and this will come from the existing business in coronary artery stenosis for, let's say, between CAD 40 million to CAD 50 million. It will also come from the new business that we are developing in structural [indiscernible] (00:39:31) for CAD 30 million to CAD 40 million, and it will come from the sensing business that we have in Medical and Industrial today. So, we feel we are – we have the right component, the right balance sheet position, the right projects to significantly generate growth at OpSens.

Okay. That's helpful context. And as far as just in achieving that goals, and with the GPOs, just given the size of the one that you just achieved, which I believe has over 700 hospital customers, are you a bit conservative in kind of factoring that GPO in in those projections and any indication on what that particular customer could account for?

I mean, we like to deliver on our program. So, are we conservative or not? What I can say is that we are confident that we can execute the vision that we are conveying to you. There is opportunity to do better clearly. Today, the market share that we have in US is [ph] somewhere (00:40:52) between 3% to 4% and we think, with our GPO partnerships and the addition of products in our portfolio, we can be more successful and increase this market share.

Okay. Understood. And then I'm also wondering, with the GPO now in place, is there an opportunity to acquire some similar products that you could sell through that channel, if that's part of the strategy, and if you have any additional colors on the M&A program going forward?

I mean the – let's say the vision that we built is not including any accretive acquisition. This being said, we feel that the sale – the direct sales force that we have right now is an asset and since we were able to show positive momentum there, this is generating opportunities in term of distribution that can lead to acquisitions so we are – we are assessing this on an opportunistic basis, but yes, there isn't a [indiscernible] (00:42:10) technology that could have shipped with our existing and future portfolio.

And any indication on the pipeline like how many assets you're looking at right now to potentially acquire?

I mean, the – we may have, let's say, two or three interesting opportunities right now.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you for taking my questions.

Real pleasure.

[Operator Instructions] Seeing no further questions, I'll turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.

Well, we want to thank all the participants, and OpSens is very excited to execute on the current business plan. We feel that we establish a very strong, strong base to be successful and create value for shareholders in the future quarters and future years. And with that, we wish you a good day.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you all for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines. Have a great day.