Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert A. Blum — Managing Partner, Lytham Partners LLC
Louis Laflamme — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Opsens, Inc.
Robin Villeneuve — Chief Financial Officer, Opsens, Inc.
Jeffrey S. Cohen — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc.
Douglas Miehm — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Wilfred C. Wutherich — Analyst, Wutherich & Company Investment Counsel, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to OpSens' Year-end Update Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note this event is being recorded.

I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Robert Blum with Lytham Partners. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much, and thank you all for joining us today for the OpSens annual update conference call. With us on the call representing the company today are Louis Laflamme, OpSens' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Robin Villeneuve, OpSens ' Chief Financial Officer. At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, just a couple of comments. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements that are based on current assumptions and subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to different materially from those projected, and that the company undertakes no obligation to update these statements except as required by law. Information about these risks and uncertainties are included in the company's filings as well as periodic filings with regulators in Canada and the United States which you can find on the SEDAR website and OpSens' website. Today's discussion will include adjusted financial measures which are non-IFRS measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not a substitute for IFRS financial measures. Finally, today's event is being recorded and will be available for replay through both the webcast and conference call dial-in information provided in the press release.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Louis Laflamme, President, Chief Executive Officer for OpSens. Louis, please proceed.

Thank you, Robert, and good morning to all of you. I will take a moment to greet our French-speaking audience. [Foreign Language] (00:02:11-00:02:24). We are excited to speak with you for our first update conference call. Today, I am going to provide a number of you our achievements and challenges for the year and, more importantly, present you a detailed update on the opportunities that I believe will drive the growth for OpSens in the years to come.

At a high level, we are pleased with how the company performed in fiscal 2020 and how the OpSens team was able to navigate the business through the COVID-19 pandemic. We reported stable core product sales during fiscal 2020, despite the temporary closure of several cardiology laboratories during the back half of the fiscal year. We also increased our gross margin on product sales, efficiently managed our expenses, and reported positive earnings for both the third and fourth quarter.

Perhaps even more important is that we advanced as planned on a number of critical projects for the commercialization of our OptoWire system for coronary artery stenosis as well as product development activity in preparation for our entry in the structural heart market with a guidewire for TAVR or TAVI, the transcatheter replacement of the aortic valve, the fastest growing market in interventional cardiology. TAVR, representing a CAD 4 billion market opportunity, growing more than 40% per year that we believe should position OpSens for significant growth for years to come.

Overall, last year was very solid for OpSens as we achieved significant milestone; 100,000 patients with coronary artery stenosis disease have now been treated with the OptoWire. We signed with Abiomed a new five-year supply agreement, and we signed our first US major group purchasing organization contract or GPO. And lastly, we are on target for fiscal 2022 commercial launch of our TAVR guidewire. I am pleased with our operating performance given the challenges during the year, and I believe 2021 will be an even better year for OpSens as we continue to execute our strategic growth plan.

Since this is our first public conference call, I wanted to take a step back and provide everyone a bit of an overview on our key products and some of the key actions we are undertaking to advance them in the market from both a commercial as well as a product development standpoint. As our name indicates, at OpSens, we develop and manufacture key optical sensors that we apply to a wide range of products. Our focus is currently on healthcare to improve patient treatment in the cardiology industry. We have developed the OptoWire guidewire for the diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery stenosis.

As I just mentioned, since its approval, the OptoWire has been used in the treatment of more than 100,000 patients worldwide in a procedure to improve patient outcome that is becoming the model of excellence in the treatment of stenosis. The same study showed that when patients' lesion are assessed by pressure guidewire, major cardiac events were reduced significantly. Today, the market continues to be fueled by studies that demonstrate the clinical and economic benefits of using pressure guidewires. Cardiologists, insurance companies and hospitals are increasing the demand for such products. The global coronary blockage assessment market, mostly pressure guidewires, is expected to reach $1 billion by 2025, growing at approximately 10% per year.

What makes our OptoWire better than the current guidewires in the market? The OptoWire solution provides the confidence and efficiency medical staff and patients need to diagnose and treat coronary disease. The OptoWire can navigate through complex anatomies, deliver a stent without guidewire exchange, choose among different hyperemic and resting indices to assess coronary physiology, and finally confirm treatment with easy and reliable post-PCI measurements. Our unique one-wire approach with the OptoWire capitalizes on the accuracy of the device or absence of risk which can lead to cost and time savings from the procedure and provide confidence in the diagnosis with consistent and repeatable measurements. Bottom line, we believe the OptoWire is the best pressure guidewire on the market for the treatment of coronary artery stenosis.

Last year, after new criteria extended the evaluation of blockages to the use of pressure measurements without the injection of heart-stimulating drugs, OpSens developed a product that met the request of cardiologists and commercialized its diastolic pressure ratio called dPR to perform this measurement. Importantly, we launched the third version of our OptoWire in fiscal 2020, allowing us to continue to evolve towards operational excellence, to improve our competitiveness and reduce production costs which will have a beneficial impact of further improving margins.

With that background on the products, we have been growing OptoWire revenues over the past few years with a 41% compound annual growth rate through 2019. In fiscal 2020, OptoWire sales decreased by approximately CAD 1.3 million primarily related to COVID-19 as well as decrease in Japan due to the anticipated transition from the OptoWire II to the OptoWire III.

While COVID-19 is still impacting cath lab activity, we have completed key commercialization actions that we believe will drive growth in fiscal 2021 despite a challenging environment. Currently, we have approximately a 15% market share in Canada and Japan, an approximate 7% market share in EMEA, and just a 2% to 3% market share in the United States which provide us great growth opportunity. Our GPO initiative, dPR approval and, at some point, a second product in our portfolio will support significant market share expansion.

Regarding the GPO initiative, we have recently signed the first of what we expect to be a series of group purchasing organization contracts to expand our presence in the United States. This three-year contract will provide access to the OptoWire to all their 50 members across US. We believe this is a recognition of the OptoWire's ability to improve efficiency and reduce cost in the treatment of coronary artery stenosis and aligns with our new GPO partner's mission to better treat their patients. We expect to sign additional GPO contracts in the coming year to enhance our market share in the US. Another key effort is to add to the number of hospitals utilizing the OptoWire in their suite of services. We recently installed OptoMonitor units at one of the highest volume hospitals in the country.

Let us transition to our lead development program now. To capitalize on the expertise we acquired in the development of the OptoWire product for cardiology, a year ago we announced plans to launch a product for transcatheter aortic valve replacement. In multiple studies, minimally-invasive TAVR has shown to be non-inferior or superior to open chest surgical aortic valve replacement or SAVR, including reduction in hospital stay and decrease in death for both high and low-risk patients. This is the fastest growing segment in interventional cardiology expected to grow at a 43% compound annual growth rate between 2019 and 2025 to reach $8 billion driven by an aging population, better clinical outcome and openness to new evidence that people of all health conditions could benefit from this minimally-invasive treatment.

Our TAVR guidewire is designed to allow for a single wire to diagnose the aortic stenosis and deliver the valve, reducing complications, saving time and money through its flawless connectivity capabilities. In fact, it would be the industry's first guidewire that can deliver the valve and allow for continuous pressure measurement. This product has been developed with a group of international structural heart experts, and they believe it will be a game-changer for this procedure.

So where are we in the development? We have recently completed key milestones for the project including the completion of multiple animal studies of the TAVR guidewire before starting our first-in-man trial. We have also successfully completed the design stage. We are now racing to bring this product to its first-in-man trial and ultimately to the market with an expectation to market this product as early as 2022. I could not be more pleased with the progress our team is making and the milestones that have been accomplished.

Transitioning for a moment. We have developed our second-generation sensor technology called Fidela. It can and it has been adapted to a wide range of applications, enabling business partnerships in a valuable medical market. Several companies are integrating OpSens' sensors into their products used in medical applications. One of the greatest demonstrations of industry's trust in Fidela sensing technology is its integration into the Impella pump from Abiomed. Between the OptoWire for coronary artery stenosis, our development of a TAVR guidewire for aortic valve stenosis and our partnerships with various medical device companies, OpSense is gaining increasing recognition in cardiology as we demonstrate the value and benefits of our technology.

And finally, we are leveraging our proprietary optical technology through our industrial subsidiary called OpSens Solutions as we offer key solutions in optical, temperature, pressure, strain and other parameters for various industries including lab, aerospace, nuclear and semiconductors. The outlook is very promising and we are optimistic that we will be able to bring to market key product applications under our industrials umbrella that can be incremental drivers to revenue, profitability and value creation in the long run.

So just to recap a bit before I turn it over to Robin. I am pleased with the overall progress made in fiscal 2020. We maintained core revenues despite COVID-19. Each component of our platform is well positioned for growth for fiscal year 2021 and the year after. We are also checking the boxes on a number of key commercialization initiatives to grow OptoWire revenue including the introduction of the OptoWire III, the signing of GPO agreements and the installation of the OptoMonitor in some of the highest utilization hospitals in US.

We achieved key milestones in the development of the industry's first TAVR guidewire that has the ability to allow for a single wire to both diagnose and deliver the valve for the treatment of aortic valve stenosis as we look to enter this potential $8 billion and rapidly growing segment in cardiology. And all this progress was made against the backdrop of COVID-19 which goes to the determination of the entire team to provide our customers with uninterrupted access to our technology. I believe we are on pace for a very exciting fiscal 2021 with a number of value creation milestones in store.

Let me now turn the call over to Robin for a review of the annual results. Robin?

Thank you, Louis, and thanks to everyone joining us on the call. The company reported that sales of product were stable at CAD 29.5 million in fiscal 2020 compared with fiscal 2019. Last year, a non-recurring license revenue of CAD 3.3 million was recorded, and total revenue had reached CAD 32.8 million. As we mentioned earlier, coronary artery stenosis sales decreased by 7% or CAD 1.3 million compared with the same period in 2019, primarily related to Japan and the impacts from COVID. When you look at gross margins, excluding the impact from the licensing revenue, gross margin slightly improved to 53% in fiscal 2020 compared to 52% in fiscal 2019.

From an operating expenses standpoint, we continue to efficiently manage the business with overall operating expenses decreasing by CAD 1.2 million during fiscal 2020 to reach CAD 19.3 million compared to CAD 20.5 million in financial year 2019. The primary change here was a decrease of CAD 2.3 million in sales and marketing, offset by slight increases in R&D and G&A. Also, please note we did recognize a non-refundable contribution under the CEWS or Canada Emergency Wage Subsidy program for an amount of just under CAD 1.7 million.

EBITDAO, which we define as net loss, plus financial expenses, depreciation of PP&E and right-of-use assets, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation costs, was a positive CAD 146,000 during the year. This compared to a loss of CAD 413,000 in fiscal 2019. A full reconciliation is available in the press release.

Looking at net income, we had a loss of CAD 2.6 million which compared to CAD 2 million in fiscal 2019. The change there primarily relates to the absence of the licensing revenues as well as CEWS program contribution mentioned a moment ago. Finally, we have CAD 10.9 million in cash on the balance sheet and working capital is at CAD 16.9 million as at August 31, 2020. We believe our balance will fund the company's operations well into the future and allow us to successfully execute our growth plan.

With that, I will turn the call over to Louis.

Thank you, Robin. Like most companies, our top priorities at OpSens continue to be ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees and supporting our customers during these times. I want to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication, and I have a strong confidence in our team to continue navigating through this pandemic and to emerge as a stronger company.

With that said, let me now turn the call over to your questions. Operator?

We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] First question comes from Jeffrey Cohen, Ladenburg Thalmann. Please go ahead.

Hi, Louis and Robin. How are you?

Very good. And you, Jeff?

We're good.

I'm just fine. So a few questions. One, I want to talk a little bit about your TAVR project as you spoke about. So in practicality, well, first, you made a comment about hitting the market as early as – was that 2023? I didn't hear you correct.

No, 2022.

Hitting the market as early as 2022, okay. And then hypothetically speaking, is what you're talking about implanting the sensor upon the delivery catheter for the aortic valve manufacturers or are you talking about utilizing your catheter in tandem to a delivery catheter used by the aortic valve manufacturers? Could you clarify that for us, please?

Yeah. Sure, Jeff. So obviously, there would be multiple possible use of our technology in TAVR. The first concept or product that we are going to bring is a pressure guidewire that integrates our optical sensing technology. And with such device, we will be able to deliver new aortic value from any manufacturers while we will also be able to display pressure information or gradient to physicians to help them appreciate the implementation of the valve, if everything was fine or optimal.

Okay. Okay, that makes more sense to me. So the first iteration will be a stand-alone device and then there would be some opportunities for which to integrate with the manufacturers?

Absolutely.

Okay, got it. And then secondly, can you give us a little color on dPR usage as far as you know over the past quarter or so? What kind of usage was going on out there and utilization as far as resting measurements for procedures?

Well, so our dPR or diastolic pressure ratio has been used in the market to – in combination with the OptoWire but obviously using a different algorithm to help the physician making a decision about implementing a stent or not. We don't necessarily have access to real data about the selection of physician of using either FFR or dPR.

We are under the impression that, let's say for the US market as example, the dPR usage is probably fairly significant, more than 50%, while some other markets such as Europe where the dPR selection compared to FFR may be more around one-third of the procedures. But the key point for us I think was really to provide the choice to physicians, and the feedback that we get is quite positive about our diastolic pressure ratio. So we feel that we are really strong from that side of the product offering.

Okay. Got it. And then one more, if I may. Lastly for me, perhaps for Robin on the margin side. The quarter looked a little softer than what we anticipated, down at around 50.4%. How do you feel about our estimates or how do you feel about kind of the traditional 55% number going forward?

Yeah. On the gross margin side, we increased a little bit compared to last year. It was a slower than anticipated. We had the COVID impact which decreased our sales volume and impacted our gross margin consequently.

Got it. Okay, that does it for me.

But, Jeff, maybe one thing that we can add is that like Robin mentioned, in Q4 there was a different non-recurring event. When we look forward, we still see a lot of potential in improving our gross margin rate. When the OptoWire III will be fully launched worldwide, it's certainly going to support an increase in the gross margin rate in the context where the cost of goods sold of this device is lower than the version number II even if we consider this as a better product.

Perfect. Thanks for taking the questions.

[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from Doug Miehm, RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. Hi, Louis. Hi, Robin. First question really has to do with your TAVR product. Maybe just to frame the conversation, you could describe the need for your guidewire during this process and what benefit it's going to provide to the surgeons that are completing it.

Okay. Well, thanks for the question, Doug. Good talking with you. So first, to deliver aortic valve in a minimally-invasive manner, okay, the physicians are using standard guidewires. In our case, okay, we feel that based on the feedback of various key opinion leaders in the field, there is an unmet need there where they would like to have in real-time pressure information, gradient information, regurgitation information between the ventricle and the aorta, so ours is going to be able to display that information in real time.

In addition to this, our wire is going to be able to do the full procedure, so from doing the initial heart stimulation that we call rapid pacing, the delivery of the valve and measuring those pressure information before, during and after the valve implementation. So by the fact that we can do all of those steps together, we will also minimize any exchanges of device, we will also minimize the number of intrusion in the heart. So in that context, obviously we don't have data with humans so far, but this should lead to improved procedure in terms of safety and speed.

Okay, perfect. Now next is just that when you think about your timelines from today to that potential introduction in 2022, you obviously have to put this into man. But perhaps you could map out for us what that timeline is going to look like starting with your first-in-man studies and going from there to the ultimate...

Okay.

...introduction.

Yeah. So the − we had interaction with regulatory authorities from different geographies in US, Canada, Europe and Japan which are our targeted markets. So for one feature, a first-in-man study is required. We expect to be in a position to perform this study somewhere at the end of the summer 2021, and right after that we should have almost all data that are required under our verification and validation plan. So once we get all those data including some aging data on devices, we will be in a position to file and we expect somehow the approval process to be fairly rapid around this [indiscernible] (00:32:50) device. So this should position us for − to be ready to do a large commercial launch in 2022.

Okay. Perfect. Now I just want to spend a minute or two on your thinking given the current COVID situation and if things have changed relative to what you'd observed over the summer in your Q4. Are you starting to see these cath labs open up such that you expect better results coming in Europe and the United States or do you still think that because of the COVID overlay and the resurgence that it's going to hold back potential at least for several quarters until a vaccine is more widely distributed?

Well, I would say that we are definitely planning for growth. COVID is certainly not helping to have the most, the biggest growth rate. But cath labs are probably operating right now at the level of capacity of maybe 80% to 90% overall in the market that we cover. But since the momentum that we have in term of opening new accounts and also the momentum that we have in gaining market share in the accounts where we are, we are highly confident that we will see growth in the year 2021. And the Q4 2020 that we just released was showing higher revenues than Q3, and this trend should be also reflected in the year 2021.

Okay. So I don't want to put words in your mouth, but do you believe with each passing quarter, starting with Q1 of fiscal 2021, that we should see a nominal increase as we progress through the year or that's not necessarily the case? And I'll leave it there. Thank you.

Yeah. I think it's the case. Obviously, there is some uncertainties there, but we have good confidence that we can execute the growth plan and the demand for our products is strong.

Okay, perfect. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question comes from [ph] Jeff Eichler (00:35:48), TD Wealth. Please go ahead.

Hi, Louis.

Hi, Jeff.

Hi. How are you doing? Yeah, no, I think people are underestimating how – and I congratulate you guys on the work you've done. I think they're underestimating how disruptive you're going be to the cardiology space. But what I'd like to know, a couple things, two or three different items. The first is in the – you mentioned I believe there's about 1,400 cath labs across the United States and you mentioned the first GPO agreement covers about 40 or 50 of them. Is the expectation to sign more GPO agreements being driven by physician kind of acknowledgement of your product being superior and the GPO is getting pressured or making it easier for you to get GPOs to help you with the distribution of your product?

And the second part to that is when you are getting actual contracts within the lab, are you finding that you're replacing some of the competitors? Like from what I understand, there's usually two products for basically backup of supplies. Are you becoming the lead and are you replacing some of the competitors that you're challenging against in those labs as the primary use of – like the item of choice?

Okay. Well, thanks for your questions, Jeff. So regarding signing more GPO agreement, definitely we are confident we are going to achieve this. And, I mean, if we take a step back, a few years ago, the credibility of OpSense with US hospital was fairly slim in the context where we had no business experience with them. In the last few years, I mean, we had multiple key opinion leaders talking about our product in conferences.

We showed the performance of our products in different paper and studies. So this is really placing OpSens at a good position to be interesting for a group purchasing organization. And the GPOs are looking with us to have access to what we consider the best technology in coronary artery stenosis. And having us under contract is also positive in term of having financial alignment in the overall system between the hospital, the GPO and OpSens.

So the second part of your question was about when we enter into new accounts, I would say in probably 100% of the cases we are displacing one of the competitor in the field because, in general, we are not going after accounts that are a non-FFR user right now. So in almost 100% or 99% of the cases, we displace someone based on the value proposition of the OptoWire around the performance of the wire, the accuracy of the technology and the freedom that we give to the physician in term of the workflow that they select.

So of the monitors to date – of the actual wires that are in use today, like how many of them are the OptoWire III versus the old OptoWire II?

Overall, in our results right now, it's probably still, I would say, 60% in OptoWire II and 40% OptoWire III. As we get further in the year 2021, we expect at some point to be at 100% in OptoWire III.

Okay. And as far as cath lab coverage with the GPO agreements that you expect to sign, do you think you'll be covering most of those, like the opportunity to get into most of those labs?

I mean, it's a process to cover the 1,400 cath labs in US that you are referring to. We expect to do that over – per year. But we certainly expect to increase the current coverage that we have in US significantly.

Okay. And then moving over to the TAVR product. Are you gaining any interest from the actual, the valve makers? Like, are they following along your progress? And, like, what's sort of been the word on the street as far as what you're – like, how you're being recognized for what you're doing? Has there been any feedback on that?

Well, I mean, we've been in contact with those companies for many years, so I would say not necessarily always a new relationship. Our focus is really to push the development of the device to get the approval. Some key opinion leaders that we are using are also advisers to those valve manufacturers, so in that context I would say that those people are informed. Even in the last animal study, two corporations provide us some units to be tested under the animal study. So I would say we get good collaboration; they see positively the concept.

Okay. Great. And then finally on the industrial side. Is there any opportunities with some of the, kind of like the hyperloops or the sort of green initiatives out there or space travel or whatever, in some of those new emerging areas? Is that any area that you play in or none at all?

Okay. I'm not going to talk specifically about customers. But what I can say is that in each case where you have electromagnetic interference, the fiber optic sensing technology is having some advantage, so obviously this can lead to some business for us. We are very excited about the progress that's been made with the wholly-owned subsidiary, OpSens Solutions, to the industrial business. And hopefully, we can deliver to the market some material news around some orders during the year 2021.

Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

Thank you, Jeff.

[Operator Instructions] Next question comes from [ph] Ralph Wille of R. Wille Investment Management (00:43:30). Please go ahead.

Hi, Louis and Robin. I actually had two questions, one of which was just sort of asked, but I don't know if you want to comment a bit more or if you don't want to on the current opportunities that you're actually pursuing in the industrial market. What kind of specific projects and what can we expect from the industrial market in 2021? And the second question is regarding your Abiomed relationship. From what I understand, your sensors are on the Impella pump which is obviously an interesting product. Are you working with Abiomed on any follow-on products or in any other relationships, and what volume might we expect over the next year or two from this relationship?

So thanks, Ralph, for your question. So in industrial, we are right now developing some long-term project in aerospace, in also the nuclear field, in semiconductor and mining so various interesting opportunities. So those opportunities can deliver very significant value creation opportunities down the road. They are also driving the business on a short-term basis. So we are capitalizing on the technology that can be applicable to multiple markets, but the principle remains obviously the same using the light to measure either pressure, temperature or displacement. So what you can expect from this? In the fiscal year 2020, it was a profitable business and we expect to improve those results in the year 2001 (sic) [2021].

Regarding Abiomed, no. I cannot go, for confidentiality reasons, to a lot of detail here. What I can say, which is public information, is that obviously for us, to have the OpSens technology being integrated in a product that is considered as clearly the best in its application, it's a great recognition of the power of our technology and the accuracy that we get with the Fidela pressure sensor.

And to respond to your question, in the business partnership where we sell sensors to medical device corporations, we are developing multiple relationship with companies and even some that are – some of the players that we're talking in the TAVR field. So, I mean, we are part of the landscape. When people, when corporations need to do some sensing or measurement, we are clearly positioned as one of the best solution in the field, and we see good potential of growth in that area.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Next question comes from Wil Wutherich of Wutherich & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi, gentlemen. So just backing up to gross margins again. Can you give me an indication of what a clean gross margin, clean meaning we no longer have licensing revenue, what would a clean gross margin look like for fiscal 2021? And if you can blend in potentially the effect that OptoWire III might have on that as well?

Yeah. On the fiscal 2021, we expect with the fully – OptoWire III integrated in the market, we expect to see an increase of about 5% on the gross margin.

Okay. So that's once OptoWire III is fully blended into the sales mix?

Yeah.

But that's going to take a period of time. So I presume it starts off at a lower rate and then slowly ramps up towards the 55% over the course of fiscal 2021?

Yeah, exactly.

Okay. Can you take a guess at what the blended average might be over the course of fiscal 2021?

You see in the fiscal 2020, we were at 52%. So we expect to have let's say a blended, maybe a 3%, 2%-3% more for over the year.

Okay. Thank you.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. Now I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.

Well, thanks to everybody to attend this call. Thanks for the questions that we received. I just want to conclude on the fact that, I mean, the OpSens team is very excited about the year 2021 and the years that we see after. We feel that we are building a solid company that will deliver value for shareholders. And with that, looking forward to talk to you in future calls.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.