raw transcript


Overseas Shipholding
 
OSG
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Overseas Shipholding First


Quarter 2005 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines have been placed on a listen-


only mode and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. It is now my pleasure


to turn the call over to your host, Mr. Jim Adelson, General Counsel. Sir, you may begin.


Jim Adelson, General Counsel


Thank you. Before we start, let me just say the following. This conference call may contain forward-


looking statements regarding OSG's prospects, including the outlook for tanker markets, changing


oil-trading patterns, prospects for certain strategic alliances, the ability to attract and retain


customers, the integration of the former Stelmar operations, anticipate levels of new buildings and


scrapings and the forecast of world economic activity and world oil demand. Factors, risks and


uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ from the expectations reflected in these


forward-looking statements to describe in OSG's annual report on Form 10-K. With that out of the


way, I'd like to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer and President, Morten Artzen.


Morten.


Morten Arntzen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. Let me get right into it and I'll try not to repeat too much of the information that is in


the earnings release. For the first quarter of 2005, net income increased 116% over 76.1 million in


the first quarter of 2004. Earnings per share rose to $4.18 per share in the quarter, compared with


the $1.99 per share in 2004 and we are more than doubling the per share number. This makes the


first quarter of 2005 the second best quarter, indeed the second best year in our company's


history.. EBITDA for the quarter was a robust 223 million. Income from vessel operations in the


quarter was a 145.2 million. As you can ascertain our performance was largely driven by strong


earnings from operations rather the result of significant one time gains over actual sales.


Performance in all our important sectors, for the most part outperformed our peer group and the


markets. Our VLCCs averaged approximately 83,000 a day in the quarter, our Aframax is $37,400


a day, our Panamax is $24,600 a day and our product tankers $17,700 a day. In short, our strong


commercial platform delivered the goods in the quarter. In addition to the strong performance in the


first quarter, we got 70 days of earnings from the 40 ships, 40 ships Stelmar fleet that we acquired


on January 20.


Finally, in the first quarter for the first time in 17 years we competed on level tax playing field with


our competition as a result of the reforms embedded for the shipping industry and the Jobs


Creation Act of 2004. This important piece of tax legislation is doing exactly what it was intended to


do, namely make American shipping companies more internationally competitive. As you assess


our results in the first quarter it is important to evaluate them against our stated strategy and as to


become a leader in every market segment in which we compete and today those are the crude


transportation markets, the product tanker market, the U.S. Flag market and an L&G transport.


Let’s go in to these segments. The first step we took to building a world class product tanker


business for the acquisition Stelmar. This added 24 product tankers to our existing fleet and


overnight made us one of the top ten owners in the world in this business. This has enabled us to


build up a much larger book of time charter revenues. And this will enable us to offset our value-to-


accrue revenues. It was importantly-- this mix gives us the ability to compete on a global basis in


this business.
raw transcript


Overseas Shipholding
 
OSG
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Let us go back to time charter revenue. In the first quarter of 2004, just 12.5% of our time charter


revenues came from fixed-rate time charters non-countable time charters. In the first quarter of


2005, this number was 26.5%. Looking out to the remainder of 2005, we forecast just short of $200


million in our revenues but already locked in from non-cancelable current charters and bareboat


charters. To put this in perspective in all of 2004, we had approximately 90 million in such revenue.


That's a big step-up.


In the current transportation segment, still our most important segment, the better than overall


market performance was delivered in the first quarter results as a result of the strong position as we


have in both, the lead sectors, the Aframax and the Panamax sectors. In all three segments, we


benefit from significant contract coverage which enables us to increase our [indiscernible] In


Maritime; we actually had Stelmar cargo to tribulation and less waiting time. We can do this


because we have large fleets in all three sectors. As I've said before, all we have to see is trades in


the tankers International pool which is the biggest operator of supertankers in the world.


Our Aframax is traded in the Aframax International Pool which is the second biggest operator of


Aframaxes in the world and our Panamaxes trades through our joint venture company, Stelcape


one of the three largest players in the Panamax trade. I think it also helps that we have very


modern fleet. 100% of our Panamax in Stelcape joint venture a double hull. 39 out of 40 Aframaxes


in the Aframax International pool a double hull and 42 other 45 VLCCs and ULCCs in the Tankers


International pool a double hull. These numbers are obviously greater than expected the


percentage in the overall market. Now lets move on to the Stelmar Integration process. It just tells


me it’s really the biggest story at OSG in the first quarter. The integration process unlike most


mergers that I have been through couple of big one myself is being driven largely from the ranken


file [ph] not from top management down. The employees of the company has seized the


opportunity to build a better company and are running with it. Anecdotally [ph] we have actually had


senior technical staff, in fact senior technical staff that were foremost sailors. A group of people not


widely considered to be most flexible lot in the world, actually makes suggestions that organization


that result in their jobs changing and changing radically.


As a result of this build for the future attitude we have managed so far take out 8 million and


annualized cost from the combined company and you will be recall that when we did the merger,


we severed wasting [ph] our no synergies. We think there is much as 20 million and annual cost


can be taken out the combined company over the next three years and that will be our goal. All this


expense says our financially rewarding an important the real up side and what we were doing is


that we will be able to run the business better. Whereas both companies were leaders in quality,


safety, and environmental management, the new OSG aimed to set the goal standard in it's critical


area about business. The merger integration process is moving as rapidly toward this goal and that


I tell you that creates a lot of excitement in the company, both here as well as Newcastle, London,


Singapore. From an earnings standpoint, going back to the financials, the Stelmar ships added 24.4


million drinking from vessel operations and 37.1 million to EBITDA for the period from January 21 to


March 31.


Now we've told investors in the last couple of calls that we were going to move to more actively


manage our assets and work toward having an all double hull own fleet. During the first quarter, we


disposed a six single hull product tankers and most of which were double sided that you four them


back on charter for durations ranging from 42-48 months. Last month, we closed in the sale of the


Compass I. It double sided Alframax tanker in which we had a 50% stake. We would recognize an


approximate 5.7 million gain in the second quarter on this transaction. Also last month, we


committed to sell the Eclipse, our only Suezmax tanker, a single Suezmax single tanker in fact.


This sale will close early in the third quarter and we will recognize it's 7.6 million gain from the sale


of that asset. Coming up, we are moving quickly towards having our entire own fleet be doubled


hull, which is the long term objective. Another cornerstone to our strategy, which I've spoken, I think


on every call we've had like this is to maintain a strong balance sheet and lots of liquidity. So that


we can both survive and instead thrive in bad times and be able to consider opportunistic