raw transcript


Overseas Shipholding Group,


Inc.
 
OSG
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Toni, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Overseas Shipholding Group Conference Call.


[Operator instructions.] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Jim Edelson,


General Counsel. Sir, you may begin your conference.


James I. Edelson, General Counsel and Secretary


Thank you. Before we start, let me just say the following. This conference call may contain forward-


looking statements regarding OSG’s prospects including the outlook for tanker markets, changing


oil patterns, prospects for certain strategic alliances and investments, estimated TCE rates


achieved for the fourth quarter, anticipated levels of new-buildings and scrappings, projected dry-


dock schedule, the ability to restore refining capacity and crude oil production in the Gulf of Mexico


from damage caused by hurricanes, the integration of the former Stelmar operations, the estimated


impact on OSG’s financial statements of the sale of seven vessels to double-hull tankers and


charter-back of six vessels, and the forecast of world economic activity and world oil demand.


Factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ from the expectations


reflected in these forward-looking statements are described in OSG’s annual report and form 10-K.


With that out of the way, I would like to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer and


President Morton Arntzen. Morton?


Morten Arntzen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. I will go through the performance for the quarter, and I’m not going to review much


that’s already in the press release. I think that OSG once again has delivered exceptional results,


and I think that the key [indiscernible] is that we continue to execute the long-term growth strategy


that we outlined to you in prior earnings calls and that we have outlined in numerous one-on-one


meetings over the last 18 months with shareholders all over the country and across the globe.


Let me highlight some of the key financial points in this quarter. Third quarter TCE revenues were


up 16% in year over year to $120 – 95 million [sic]. This is particularly notable, given the declining


rates in VLCCs and Aframax sectors in the last quarter, but I’ll back to that in a little while.


Net income was up 5% to $72 million. Net income year-to-date of $351 million is 88% of what we


achieved in the full year 2004. And we’ll talk a little bit about the fourth quarter, and that will help


you put that in better perspective.


EPS for the quarter was $1.82 per share, up 5%. Excluding gain on vessel sales and gains from


security transactions, EPS was $1.36 per share. Again, like in the other quarters of 2005, we


benefited from the tax changes that were embedded in the 2004 Job Creation Act. In the third


quarter last year we paid $33 million in taxes, and this quarter our tax bill was negligible.


If you look at net cash flow from operations for the first nine months, it was $333 million. And you


should remember that this includes paying $93 million in taxes this year, of which $91 million relate


to 2004. Or put another way, cash flow would have been $424 million under the new tax regime we


operate. So we continue to generate a lot of cash.


Average TCE rates in the quarter – which I think all of you know were down – VLCCs averaged


$34,676 per day in the quarter, which is down 44% year over year. Aframaxes averaged $26,769 a
raw transcript


Overseas Shipholding Group,


Inc.
 
OSG
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


day, down 14% year over year. Our Panamax crude tankers averaged $22,807 a day, up 27% year


over year. And product carriers $18,239, up 8% year over year. If you look at total revenue days for


the company, they were 7,954 in the quarter, 75% more than the same period of last year.


One of the things that we have been talking about consistently is a balanced portfolio strategy for


OSG. And it’s really about two things: managing how we control our tonnage in order to capitalize


on market conditions, and making our spot- and time-charter exposure to capitalize on market rates


and our expectations for future rates. So let’s look at our four segments today and where are they.


We trade the majority of our crew tankers in the spot market. And we intend to continue that policy;


we continue to believe that that is the optimum place to have the crude tankers. And in fact, at any


time period we look backwards – one year, two year, three year, five year – spot market was the


place to be. As we look forward at our own projections – next six months, next year, next three


years – we continue to believe that for the crude tankers the spot market is where you want to


employ the majority of the tonnage, and we will continue to do so. If you look at the product tankers,


it’s more of mix of spot- and time-charters. And unlike the crudes market – and the product market


from time to time we are able to lock in time-charters for an excess of what our forecasts are for


spot-market for the product tankers. When we could achieve those kind of fixtures, we capitalize on


them. If you look at the U.S. Flag, it is almost an entirely time-charter market and will continue to be


so. And then finally, our LNG carriers, which are set to deliver in 2007 and 2008, they will be on 25-


year charters when they come into the fleet, and right now any project we would contemplate in the


LNG space would involve long-term charter commitments. We continue to shy from ordering LNG


carriers spec.


And if you look at some of the mix in the quarter, 60% of the time-charter equivalent revenue was


derived in the spot market in the third quarter. This compares with 82% the same quarter a year


ago, so a much healthier mix. If you look at crude, crude TCE revenues third quarter last year


represented 83% of TCE revenue; this last quarter it was 63% thanks to the, you know, significant


growth in the product tanker revenue. So we have a better mix between crude and product than


we’ve have had in the past.


Going to one of our other important themes, active fleet management. And we made a commitment


to you last year that we would do this, and we have continued that. If you look at our operating fleet,


it has grown close to 50% year over year from 62 vessels last year this quarter to 92 vessels now. If


we take newbuilding commitments into account, and including the commitment we made to time-


charter four product tankers for 10 years, our fleet actually is up to 110 ships. So we have


continued to prudently grow and manage this fleet. Today we own 69% of our vessels, down from


82% at the end of the year. And one of the things we’ve emphasized, we want to have flexibility in


our balance sheet. We’ll probably look to have somewhere around two thirds of the ships we


control on our balance sheet, and about one third off. And the one third that’s off the balance sheet


will come with options to extend, options to walk away, options to purchase, and we think that kind


of flexibility will enable us to better capitalize on swings in the market and our expectations of future


rates.


Now, what’s the best – one of the better examples of that, obviously, is the double-hull tanker


transactions. We made a commitment to the board and to our shareholders that we would try to


return leverage ratios and liquidity levels by year end 2005 to levels that existed prior to the Stelmar


acquisition. With the earnings we’ve generated this year in double-hull tanker transactions, we have


substantially achieved that. And that’s within one year, so if you look back one year ago, we


committed to spending $1.35 billion to buy Stelmar Shipping. We did that. We did not issue any


equity in the transaction. One year later we have absorbed that transaction and restored the


balance sheet to the condition it was in prior to doing that, and I think that’s a fairly notable


achievement.