Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James D. Small — Secretary, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.
Ian T. Blackley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.
Rick F. Oricchio — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.
Henry P. Flinter — Head-US Flag Strategic Business Unit, Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.
Lois K. Zabrocky — SVP & Head-Products & Gas, Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc.
Andrew Casella — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Omar Nokta — Analyst, Clarkson Capital Markets
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Dean Pagonis — Analyst, Cove Street Capital LLC
George J. Schultze — Managing Member, Schultze Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to your Overseas Shipholding Group First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce you to your host for today's call, James Small with General Counsel. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the first quarter of 2015 earnings release conference call. Before we begin, I would like to start off by advising everyone on the call with us today the following.

During this conference call, management may make forward-looking statements regarding OSG or the industry at which it operates which could include without limitation, statements about outlook for tankers and articulated tug barge markets; changing oil trading patterns; forecast of world or regional economic activity and demand for oil and petroleum products; OSG's strategy; expectations regarding revenues and expenses, including general and administrative expenses and vessel expenses, estimated TCE rates achieved for the first quarter of 2015 and booked for the second quarter of 2015.

Estimated capital expenditures for 2015, projected scheduled dry-dock or off-hire days. OSG's ability to achieve its financing objectives and regulatory developments. Any such forward-looking statements take into account various assumptions made by management, based on its experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected and future developments and other factors management believes are appropriate to consider in these circumstances.

Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions many of which are beyond the control of OSG, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those implied or expressed by the forward-looking statements. Factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ from the expectations reflected in any such forward-looking statements are described in OSG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2014 and in other filings that OSG has made or in the future may make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that out of the way, I'd like to turn the call over to our President and Chief Executive Officer, Captain Ian Blackley. Ian?

Thank you, James. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our 2015 first quarter earnings call. It's been a while since we held an earnings call. We appreciate you joining, and giving us the opportunity to update you on our business.

I'd like to introduce you to our team on the call today. Joining us from the road is Lois Zabrocky, who is President of our International Business. He is currently in Europe and joining us from Amsterdam Airport. Also we have Henry Flinter, also on the road, he is President of our Domestic Business, he is [indiscernible] (2:54) Alaska and he is about to head for the airport. I believe many of you will be familiar with both Lois and Henry, they've both been with the company for a fairly long time.

With me here in New York is Rick Oricchio, our CFO. Rick joined us in January after a 30-year career with Deloitte. He was an advisor to us during the Chapter 11 proceedings, so his knowledge of the company has led him to hit the ground running and [indiscernible] (3:17). He brings a wealth of tax and capital markets' experience to the team, and you'll hear from him shortly.

James Small is our General Counsel, you heard from earlier. He is also here in New York. James joined us in March, after almost 20 years with Cleary Gottlieb. He was legal advisor to us during the restructuring process, so he's also familiar with the company. He brings securities law, capital markets and corporate governance experience. We also have Brian Tanner here with us, our new Head of Investor Relations, who joined us last month.

As you know, we emerged from bankruptcy in August of 2014, marking a new beginning for OSG. Our successful emergence would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment of our advisors, our shareholders, and most critically, our employees, both at sea and ashore. We emerged with a stronger balance sheet, giving us greater flexibility. We still maintain our market-leading presence in the Jones Act and a sizeable international Flag fleet.

We've also improved our efficiency and cost structure, positioning us to compete more effectively. In our U.S. Flag fleet, we have 24 vessels, 10 of which are charted in. 22 of them were Jones Act, making us the largest operator of Jones Act vessels in our sector, both by number of vessels and by dead weight. We have a strong presence in all U.S. coastal regions, and we have the largest and a modern Jones Act tanker fleet. We are also the only operator of Jones Act shuttle tankers.

Our international Flag fleet of 56 vessels, seven of which are chartered-in, trades predominantly in the spot market. Our international business today utilizes an outsourced model, with all of our international Flag conventional tankers technically managed by V.Ships in the UK, and commercially managed through pools or other commercial managers. We're able to place vessels on time charters in sectors where longer term contracts are preferred, such as LNG, FSO, and the Jones Act, while keeping our international tanker fleet spot. This allows us to combine stable, contracted cash flows with the more volatile but, historically higher, returns available in international spot markets.

Turning now to our first quarter results, and I'll give a short update about each of our segments. TCE revenues for the first quarter was $221.6 million, up 3% over the same time period last year. Revenue growth in the quarter was driven by stronger rates across our International Flag segments and a continued robust Jones Act market. This strength in both of our businesses more than offset the impact of a decrease in revenue days quarter-on-quarter, due to the regular [indiscernible] (6:12) during 2014 of 10 time and variable chartered-in vessels and the sale of five older vessels.

Our adjusted EBITDA was $113.7 million for the first quarter, up more than 30% from $86.6 million in the same period a year ago. Net income increased to $42.9 million in the first quarter, compared to only $12.6 million in the same period a year ago. The fundamentals of the U.S. Flag business remained strong. And we're well positioned to benefit from this. The strong rate environment has allowed us to renew all the time charters that expired over the last 12 months at higher rates.

In the International Crude sector, the fundamental drivers remain positive, with crude oil demand and tonne-mile demand both rising. This rising demand, coupled with the lower growth rates in vessel supply, has led to increased utilization, tightening the balance between supply and demand, resulting in increased rates. Other shorter term factors, like oil price contango, may provide further support to this market from time-to-time, should storage opportunity to move ships from the trading fleet. Together, these factors have led to significantly improved rates in our crude sectors, evidenced by the 54% increase in our first quarter average VLCC spot rate to $49,280 per day. Average Aframax spot rate increased to $30,932 per day in the quarter, up 16%, and our average Panamax blended rate increased to $20,793 per day, up 12%.

The International Products Carrier sector has also improved as the market absorbs newbuilds and demand continues to grow. The U.S. has become the largest refined product exporter in the world in recent years, with most U.S. product exports currently moving on MR tankers to South America and Europe, providing tonne-mile demand growth in the sector. This provides significantly improved rates in MRs evidenced by the 49% increase in our first quarter MR spot rate to almost $19,000 from $12,600 in the same period of 2014.

Our first quarter performance was a strong start to the year and we remain well-positioned in both our domestic and international businesses to capitalize on the strength of the tanker markets. With 80 vessels on the water generating cash, I remain excited by our prospects and I am confident in our ability to create value for our shareholders.

I'll now turn the call over to Rick to provide some additional details on our first quarter results.

Thanks, Ian. Let's move directly to reviewing the first quarter results in a bit more detail. TCE revenue for the first quarter of 2015 totaled $221.6 million, up 3% compared with the same period in 2014. The $7 million increase was driven by both the continuing strength in the U.S. Flag markets and strengthening crude and product spot rate in the International Flag markets. This increase came about even as revenue days decreased 18% or 1,432 days compared with the same period in 2014. That decrease was largely due to the redelivery of 10 vessels at the expiry of their short-term charters and the sale of five older vessels in 2014. Adjusted EBITDA was a $113.7 million for the first quarter, an increase of $27.1 million or 31% from the $86.6 million in the comparable 2014 quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA adjusted for reorganization items, gain on disposal of vessels and other property, severance and relocation costs and technical management transition costs as described in more detail in our earnings press release. The increase in adjusted EBITDA was primarily driven by the strength of spot rates, particularly in the international crude market and lower G&A expenses. This increase was partially offset by reactivation costs we incurred for our ULCC that had to do with its removal from a [ph] lay-up (11:00) ahead of an 11-month storage charter that started last month.

Net income for the quarter increased to $42.9 million in the first quarter, compared to $12.6 million in the same period a year ago. This increase was primarily due to the factors I've just covered, most importantly the strength of spot rates. The increased interest expense due to our reinstated debt and exit financing was essentially offset by the favorable impact of having the reorganization process behind us, resulting in substantially lower costs for reorganization advisors.

Turning to our segment results, beginning with the U.S. Flag business. First quarter TCE revenues for the U.S. Flag segment totaled $111.2 million, up 11% or $10.8 million from the same period a year ago. This increase reflects the continued strength of the Jones Act market. Time charters on our Jones Act product carriers and ATBs that expired since the first quarter of 2014 have all been replaced with new time charters averaging above, in a number of cases well above the expiring fixed rates.

This is reflected in an almost 15% increase in time charter revenue compared with the first quarter of 2014. First quarter TCE revenue for the International Crude Tanker segment totaled $66.8 million, down 19% from the same period a year ago. This decline reflects the 1,448 days decrease in revenue days, as compared to Q1 of 2014 mainly due to the redelivery of 8 Aframaxes and one Suezmax in 2014 at the expiry of their short-term charters. Also, we sold five older vessels in 2014, two VLCC's, two Aframaxes, and one Panamax. The decrease in revenue days was partially offset by strengthening in the average daily rates across all fleets in the segment.

Ian highlighted the strong performance in our first quarter average spot rate and second quarter performance continues to be strong. We have booked approximately 50% of the available VLCC spot days, and rates remain at an average of approximately $50,000 per day, and we booked 40% of the available Aframax spot days at an average of close to $30,000 per day. In the International Product Carrier segment, first quarter TCE revenues totaled $43.5 million, up 39%, or $12.3 million from the same period a year ago. The increase was primarily due to the 49% increase in MR spot rates, which Ian highlighted earlier. Our first quarter 2015 G&A totaled $19.3 million, compared with $24.4 million for the first quarter of 2014. The decrease was primarily due to reduced employee-related costs from our shift to an outsourced model in our international business.

From a liquidity standpoint, we ended the first quarter with approximately $595 million of cash, including $118 million of restricted cash, of which $40 million is designated for bankruptcy-related costs and $78 million, as per our credit agreements, is designated for vessel acquisitions or to pay down debt. We also have access to undrawn revolving credit facilities of $125 million.

Before beginning the Q&A session, let me comment on the Form S-1 registration statement we filed on Monday of this week. As previously disclosed, there is no certainty that an offering will take place, and the timing, price, and other terms of any such potential offering have not yet been determined. As we are currently going through the registration process, we have no further comment at this time, and will not be able to answer any questions relating to the S-1. In addition, because we are currently in registration, our ability to answer questions on the company and its prospects is limited. We apologize in advance for this, but we did want to resume investor calls.

With that, we will now open the call up to questions. Mercedes?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Casella with Imperial Capital. Your line is now open.

Hi, thanks guys, appreciate you hosting the call. I guess just first, when we look at your balance sheet, you have about $600 million of cash – how are you thinking about capital allocation? Is there a particular side of the business you'd like to invest in? Is it potentially going to be used to address the holding company debt? Just around your general thoughts on – how you think about that cash balance.

Andrew, we're looking at all the options on our use of cash. We don't want to comment on specifics at the moment, but we can say the scale is important to our business. We do believe there will be opportunities there for us to deploy cash in either of our businesses, domestic or international.

Got it. And then – this is a follow-up related to strategic direction. During the bankruptcy, you guys had retained Deloitte to work on carve-out financials to potentially separate the International Flag business. You had hired Barclays, I believe, at the end of 2014. Any general comments on how you're looking at – splitting apart the businesses, where some of the opportunities are in the strategic side – whether it's consolidation in the Jones Act? I think most people are focused on your relationship with American Shipping. Any comments you could provide there?

Andrew, I have a formal response to such questions. I'm glad it's come up early on. And that is the following: Although from time-to-time, we may consider various strategic transactions, we have adopted a no-comment policy regarding questions relating to potential transactions or market rumors. The no-comments should not be taken as either an affirmation or denial but merely an indication that we do not plan to comment. That's where we are on those types of questions, Andrew, at the moment.

Okay, that's fine. And then, switching to your ATBs in the Jones Act segment; can you comment on their trading life? I think during the bankruptcy, the planned projections had indicated that you had the expectations those would be scrapped towards the end of the decade, but – they were – you guys had spent a bunch of money rebuilding them, and that was expected to add some 20 years of useful life. How are those trading in the marketplace? Do you still think that those need to be scrapped on the schedule, given the rate environment? Obviously, it's a big capital investment to re-fleet that. If you could provide any color there?

Yeah. The units are well maintained. We have the option to take them out of service or to take them to a dry-docks. It really will be customer driven. And when they're approaching a dry-dock or approaching additional capital expenses, we'll look at their future employment prospects, look at the cost of the dry-dock and capital expense, and take the decision at that time.

Okay. And when we look at your Jones Act contract schedule – how should we think about the progression of the year? How many vessels, between the ATBs and the Jones Act MRs, do you have coming off of contract, and what are your expectations of where the market rates are today?

We have none coming off this year. We've got three tankers coming off in the first quarter of 2016, and we're currently discussing those with the existing charters. We're not able to make any comment on what the rates may be and then we have a number of ATBs coming off later in 2016.

Got it. And then just my final question, appreciate the generosity with your time, when we look at the joint ventures – clearly that's generating a lot of net income for you, but – are you receiving cash distributions and when is the expected timing of when you'll – that'll become more of a cash number versus just an equity income figure on the income statement?

We have – last year we received distributions from the two JVs on the international side of the business, totaling $35 million. And in the first quarter of 2015, again on the international side, we received $12.5 million and then $3.4 million on the domestic side in the first quarter.

Got it. Congrats on the quarter, and I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Omar Nokta with Clarkson. Your line is now open.

Hi, there. Hi, guys. Congratulations on the new developments and for the structure you have in place. And looking forward to seeing what's ahead. I'm cognizant of the your comments and some of the juicy questions, I guess I'll obviously have to steer clear of. Just had a couple of maybe – questions about the – the Jones Act market, and the – given the market had obviously has been strong for quite some time, I just wanted to get a sense from you if you can give us – maybe over the past six months how that market has shifted. Has it remained strong? Has the change in oil prices had any impact? I'm just looking to get some color on that with respect to both ATBs and the tankers if you can.

Henry, do you want to take that question?

Yes. I can do that Ian. So this is Henry Flinter. The rates have softened slightly, and I emphasize slightly, with the uncertainty created by the decline in oil prices which has been quite dramatic since I'm going to say early Q4 2014, but this is slight and we disclosed this in the 10-Q what our estimate is of current spot rates in the market, and I think you'll see there is a decline in Q4 and Q1 of 2015 of just a few thousand dollars a day.

Okay. Thank you. That's helpful and I'll look for that in the queue. And then also just wanted to ask on the two Jones Act shuttle tankers – those were, if I remember correctly, originally built to as product tankers and then maybe switched later on towards shuttles or maybe half way through construction. Just – those two vessels – are those going to – are those slated to continue working as shuttle tankers? When do those roll off contract? And also, I guess with that too, do you see them continuing on as shuttles or switching into the product [ph] trade (23:33)?

Those vessels were converted to shuttles soon after delivery from the shipyard. They were contracted with Petrobras. They remain under contract with Petrobras providing shuttling services to their field in the ultra deepwater. This is the Cascade and Chinook fields. And that continues into the future. During the course of the bankruptcy, the charters were extended. They exercised option that they had and extended for an additional period of time. So we foresee that those vessels remain in place with them for some period of time.

Thank you. Are you able to give any sort of – period as to what the expansion was for by any chance?

So they – I believe this was somewhere in the thousands of papers filed in the bankruptcy. So it's public. It was a 3-year extension that they had available to them, they exercised that on both vessels and then for one of the vessels, they extended an additional two years.

Okay. Perfect. All right. Thanks, guys. Thanks for the help. I'll hop out.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Ben Nolan with Stifel. Your line is now open.

I was going to just follow-up a little bit on Omar's innocuous question there. As it relates to the Jones Act business and you mentioned that the spot market had softened just a touch, but could you give me maybe a sense of specifically for the MRs, where is the longer term time charter market or where are rates approximately at this level? Is there much demand in the market for longer term contracts and any sense maybe of the direction of where rates have been and maybe are trending?

And Ben, we can't really comment on forward rates, but we certainly can say that the market remains strong albeit with the kind of softening sentiment that Henry referred to earlier. Typically, we put our MR guide on kind of three-year to five-year time charters, that's our period covenant in the market.

And there were – currently the market is still somewhere in the 70s or so or 80s for those longer term duration contracts?

Can we comment? I don't think we can give a projection.

Okay. That's fine. Stepping away from that for a second, just thinking about the internationally flagged fleet. Obviously, the profile of the fleet has changed a little bit, or shrunk a little bit, subsequent to the bankruptcy, but are – when you guys look at your fleet as it stands at the moment, for both the clean and the dirty, are you – do you feel like, in each of the categories that you participate, do you feel like you have the scale that you would like – are there areas within the profile that you feel like – maybe would be enhanced a bit with more scale?

I think we – in general, Ben, we like the large crude space, and we certainly like the [indiscernible] (28:03) we're talking like the product space as well. And we're fairly heavily into MRs, as you know. There has been a lot of newbuilding deliveries in 2014 and 2015, but the underlying demand in that sector is fairly positive, and when the newbuilds get absorbed, we think that's a good space to be.

Okay. Well, along those lines, would you say maybe that you're more positive or like predisposed to the dirty side or the clean side – is there – or are you agnostic?

No. We like being diversified. The crude market has been strong over the last couple of quarters, and is continuing to be strong. Our Jones Act business has been strong for a number of years. The products – as I said earlier, the products were good in the first quarter, and we look forward to seeing where that market goes when the newbuilds are absorbed. I should also – to your earlier point about scale, point out we operate all of our international – majority of our international conventional tankers in pools, so we can achieve the scale and higher utilization through that strategy.

Yeah. No, sure. Okay, well that does it for me. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Dean Pagonis with Cove Street Capital. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. I was just wondering if you could go over some of the major tonne-mile drivers that you guys are seeing on the crude Jones Act and the product market side?

Sure. Let's start with international. Lois, can you take that please?

Yes. Thank you, Ian. Definitely, when we look on the international side, at the larger crude space, one thing that we're seeing done much more frequently is that you actually have vessels that will [indiscernible] (30:13) from the discharge in China, come over to the Caribbean, and pick up a cargo to take back to the East. So that's one example of how you're seeing the changing trade link and increase in tonne-mile. We also had a pretty cold winter in the Northern Hemisphere, and that really helped out the mid-size, the Aframaxes, on the crude space as well. Back to you, Ian.

So, pass it to over to Henry [indiscernible] (30:46).

Okay. Thank you, Ian. On tonne-mile demands on the U.S. side, the driver is U.S. domestic crude oil. And the spread between two benchmarks, Brent and WTI, there is a healthy spread at the moment. And that spread encourages coast-wise movements of domestic crude oil to refineries here in the United States, so that's been a strong driver of demand, and we have done coast-wise voyages, both in 2014 and then in Q1, utilizing the spare capacity in our lightering fleet, our two Delaware Bay lightering ATBs, to perform coast-wise voyages moving domestic crude.

Then, [indiscernible] (32:04) you can talk for a second about your sales and purchase discipline and how you think about the sales and purchases going forward, and whether or not you have any plans to either add to or trim the fleet at the right prices or rate [ph] that (32:18) environment?

So we're not really in a position to comment on specific S&P deals. We have, as we mentioned, in our opening remarks we have disclosed a number of our older international vessels in the last 12 months. As I said earlier, scale is important to our business. So we look at all options, but we don't want to get into specifics here.

If you can just comment on kind of how you're handicapping the possibility of the crude export ban being lifted and how that's factoring into your decision-making on the Jones Act side.

The potential export of crude from lower 48 is something we keep very close watch on. We don't have a specific view on it, but we certainly think it's possible that the export of condensate may grow as more splitters come online. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of George Schultze with Schultze Asset Management. Your line is now open.

Hi, good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, George.

I wonder if you could give a little bit of guidance on expected maintenance capital expenditures going forward? I know that in your bankruptcy plan you had projections of, I guess $70 million to $85 million per year. I'm curious if that's still a reasonable estimate or if there is a change in your expected maintenance capital expenditures per year going forward.

We have – in 2015 on the domestic side, we have about 13 vessels. We expect to dry-dock at a total cost about $35 million and on the international side, we're looking at 14 vessels at total cost of around $22 million.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

Actually, just one other question, if I may. Regarding tax expense going forward. What's a reasonable estimate after the business given both in international and the domestic component of the business?

Very difficult to – George, this is Rick Oricchio speaking. It's very difficult to predict a – an effective tax rate, because the mix of our earnings could change dramatically with the movement in spot rates. And the international – the tax rate on the international business is significantly different than it is on the U.S. business. So any type of speculation seems inappropriate.

Okay, but on the international side, at this point, you're unable to repatriate earnings on the international side without paying taxes in the U.S., right?

Thank you. And at this time, I would like to turn the call back to Ian Blackley, Chief Executive Officer.

So thank you everyone for coming on the call. We appreciate it and we certainly look forward to our next call. Thanks.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's call. You may all disconnect.