corrected transcript


Overseas Shipholding Group,


Inc.
 
OSG
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon and welcome to your Overseas Shipholding Group’s Second Quarter


2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode


and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. It is now my pleasure to turn the


floor over to your host, Mr. Jim Edelson. Sir, you may begin.


James I. Edelson, General Counsel and Secretary


Thank you. Before we start, let me just say the following. This conference call may contain forward-


looking statements regarding OSG's prospects, including the outlook for tanker markets, changing


oil trading patterns, prospects for certain strategic alliances, the ability to attract and retain


customers, the integration of the former Stelmar Operations, anticipated levels of new buildings and


scraping and the forecast of world economic activity and world oil demand.


Factors, risks, and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ from the expectations


reflected in these forward-looking statements are described in OSG's Annual Report on Form 10-K.


With that out of the way, I'd like to turn the call over to our Chief Executive Officer and President,


Morten Arntzen.


Morten Arntzen, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director


Good morning. Let me first introduce the people that have joined me on the call, Myles Itkin, our


Chief Financial Officer; Bob Johnston, our Chief Commercial Officer; Peter Swift, the Head of Ship


Operations; Jim Edelson, Senior Counsel for the firm; and Jennifer Schlueter, our new Head of


Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.


Let me get started. At the beginning of this year, we told you that you could expect OSG to


outperform the sector in 2005. We have delivered on that promise. Year-to-date we have produced


exceptional results, clear evidence that our expansion strategy is working and is delivering value to


our shareholders.


Lets us go through just some of the highlights. Second quarter time charter equivalent revenues


were up 46% year-over-year to 229 million. Net income in the quarter was 114 million, up over


150% from the same quarter last year. For the first six months, net income was up 130% from


121.6 million to 279.1 million. Finally, EBIDTA for the six-month period was up 48% to 399.7 million.


We are quite pleased with those numbers. When we acquired Stelmar, we explained that one of the


strategic reasons was to develop a more balanced portfolio to enhance the quality of our earnings


while enabling us to offset the inherent volatility in spot market crude rates with steady revenue


from time charters in our expanded Product Tanker business, as well as, our existing U.S Flag


segment. I am pleased to report that 37% of the TCE revenues in this quarter came from time


charters as compared to 20% in the same quarter in 2004.


Equally as important, we have lessened our dependence on the crude market. Crude as a percent


of total TCE revenues was 69% in the quarter versus 82% in the quarter the year before. Product


Tanker revenue in that same period rose from 4% of revenues to 19%. The Stelmar integration


continues to exceed expectations. Since we acquired the company in January 21st, we’ve added


52.4 million to EBIT for OSG, from the period Jan 21 to June 30.
corrected transcript


Overseas Shipholding Group,


Inc.
 
OSG
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The technical management integration is complete. The product carriers are now operated entirely


from Athens and the crude tankers entirely from Newcastle. And we are moving forward on


instituting and developing best practices across the fleet. So far we have realized 8 million in


annualized savings and we have a target of $20 million that we are shooting for over the next three-


year period. The incremental savings -- the initial savings came primarily out of insurance and


financing. We expect to have incremental savings in insurance, in purchasing, in drydocking, and


crewing and are working very aggressively on all those fronts.


OSG's financial performance this quarter included the impact of a tax change, which was a result of


the 2004 Jobs Creation Act. Now, I have spoken this before. Effective January 1st, the legislation


effectively eliminates tax on our foreign shipping income and allows us to compete on a level


playing field with our public market competitors. Last year, our International Flag income was taxed


at a 35% rate, a significant burden on our earnings. Now, we are permanently deferring tax on our


international fleet and not making any tax provisions for these earnings. All I can say is get used to


it


Talk a little bit of the U.S Flag; one of the more important strategic decisions we made last year was


our recommitment to growth in the U.S Flag market. In April, we announced a lot of intent with


Kvaerner Philadelphia, to build 10 Jones Act product tankers. In this case, OSG will bareboat


charter these ships for terms of five to seven years with extension options of an ownership entity


that the Kvaerner Philadelphia will establish.


This transaction was closed in June. It's been approved by our Board, by the Kvaerner Board, by


the U.S. Coast Guard, and then, last month Aker American Shipping, the Company established by


Kvaerner to own the ships raised a 125 million in equity to finance this project. So this program will


go forward.


Construction is now underway and the first vessel we expect to deliver in November of 2006. And


as underscore, this program involves no capital commitment for OSG for this program. The ships


will be owned by Aker American Shipping, we will bareboat them. And we remain very confident


about our ability to profitably employ these vessels as they come into our fleet.


Another thing, we talked about last year was that we were committed -- that we were going to more


aggressively manage our fleet and our assets. We also said that we were aiming to have an all


double hull international fleet by the end of 2005. Again, we have lived up to our word. Last year,


we began to actively manage our fleet and then disposed-off some single crude tankers and


arranged bareboat charters on some of our older product tankers.


I am proud to report today that OSG's wholly-owned international fleet is now 100% double hull. We


have a 30% stake in one single hull VLCC, the Front Tobago and she is currently available for sale.


During the quarter, you may have noticed, we re-organized the joint venture we had for our four


VPluses. We have now taken ownership -- a 100% ownership of two of the ships and our partner


Euronav has taken a 100% ownership of the other two ships. They continue to trade together and


they continue to trade in the TI pool.


Since March 31st, we have sold six vessels, two of which were chartered back for 50-month period


and in total of generating a 145 million in proceeds. You know, at the same kind as we have


disposed off our single hull fleet and our older ships, we have grown this fleet to 94 vessels


aggregating 12.3 million deadweight tons. In addition, we have 4 LNG carriers on order in Korea


and 10 Jones Act product tankers coming on starting 2006.


We are very happy with the composition of our fleet today and the average age is among the


youngest in the industry. Let me conclude my prepared remarks by talking about investments in our