raw transcript


Overseas Shipholding
 
OSG
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Good morning ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the Overseas Shipholding


Group Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2004 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants


have been placed on a listen-only mode. The floor will be open for your questions following today's


presentation. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Jim Adelson [ph] General Counsel.


Sir you may begin.


Company Representative


Thank you. Before we start, let me just say the following. This conference call may contain forward-


looking statements regarding OSG's prospects including the outlook for tanker markets, change in


the oil trading patterns, prospects for certain strategic alliances the ability to attract and retain


customers, the ability integrate the former Stelmar operations and anticipate levels of new buildings


and scrapping and the forecast of world economic activity and world oil demand. Factors risks and


uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ from the expectations reflected in these


forward-looking statements are described in OSG's annual report on Form 10-K. With that out of


the way I'd like to turn the call over to our CEO and President Morten Arntzen. Morten?


Morten Arntzen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining. I hope that most of you received our press


release and have been able to review it. I'm not going to repeat what is in the press release but, I


will emphasize to some of the key points in there. I think as all of you on the call are aware, 2004


was a terrific year for the tanker industry and the fourth quarter was exceptional. This was the best


year and the best quarter in 32 years. And this reflected in our results with net income for 2004 of


$401 million, a 331% gain from 2003. when we made $121 million which at that time was a record


for the company. The fourth quarter we had record net income of 211 million or $5.36 per share, 10


times higher than the number we attained a year earlier of 21 million. EBITDA was a robust 655


million for the year compared with 320 million the year before. And obviously this was driven by a


very strong rate environment you could look at the average TCE rate for the full year last year was


$75,400 a day and for the fourth quarter of VLCC's averaged of $109,600 a day. Similar the


Aframax's in 2004 for the three-month period the last three months for $57,600 a day and for the


full year 38,000. These are exceptional numbers. We are very pleased with our financial results and


we will take specific questions on all aspects of it after I finished the early remarks.


Lets look at the highlights of the company, because this was in many ways a transformational year


for OSG. Perhaps the most important thing was as a result of the jobs Creation Act of 2004 which


President Bush signed into law in October, OSG is on a level playing field for the first time since


1986 with regard to taxes. We had been paying 35% tax rate on all our income from our foreign


flagships. This is no longer the case. To illustrate how important the jobs Creation Act is for OSG in


this tax change lets just take a quick look at the fourth quarter. you see our earnings of the fourth


quarter of 211 million. If we had been in the 35% tax environment on that number we would have


paid $73 million in tax on that. Slightly less than the $77 million reversal of the net deferred


liabilities. So if you look at the difference between the tax and deferred liabilities we would have


made 208 million rather than 211 million. That number, 208 is more indicative of the kind of


earnings momentum that you can expect from OSG going forward. We no longer have a 35% tax


stone to carry around our international fleet which is where the majority of our earnings obviously


are made.
raw transcript


Overseas Shipholding
 
OSG
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Lets take a look at the financial profile. I have said on all the prior calls that part of OSG's long-term


strategy is to maintain one of the stronger financial profiles in the industry. This is not changed. We


acquired Stelmar on January 20th. This was a total cost of 1.3 – $1.35 million including the


assumption of debt. We did not issue any new equity as we added 40 ships to our fleet and


creating world-class platforms in both product tankers in Panamax tankers. Despite spending $1.3


billion both Moody's and S&P maintained our credit rating at BB plus. I think this demonstrate how


strong our balance sheet is. It also should not be surprising if you look at the details we have now


$1.4 billion in shareholders equity at 123184. Even after the Stelmar acquisition we have $700


million in liquidity a combination of cash, tax adjusted CCF funds and undrawn lines. We also have


a modern fleet with a massive difference between the market value of the fleet and the book value


the fleet. It is important the majority of our debt is mortgage free, unlike the majority of the industry


which borrows on strict like a mortgage basis.


In addition, to the strong balance sheet our fleet is very young. If you looked at and we mentioned


in the press release on the Aframax is the average age of our for this 6.8 years compared with the


world market average of 10.2 and for the Panamax a young for 4.4 average for our fleet compared


with 13.9 and for the handy size its 9.7% versus 13.8. If you look at our VLCC fleet it has an


average age of 5.2 years compared to a world average 8.7. Our fleet is in fact of the industry. So, if


you look at all and take this altogether liquidity, financial flexibility, hidden value in our fleet, young


fleet, we still have the capacity to make to assess and to pursue growth opportunities if they arise


and we also have the strengths to survive in difficult markets should they happen, which at this time


is something we are expecting. We have talked in the last couple of calls about the OSG fleet asset


management and I have mentioned that we're going to be more aggressively managing our asset


base.


In the last year, I think, you all know we sold two – last two single hold VLCCs. This year so far, we


closed on January 19, sale leasebacks of our four older Bostonmax. We sell them and transfer the


residual risk to a third party and then took them back on charter at attractive terms. Just last week,


we committed to selling our last single haul Panamax tanker, the Mary Ann for north of a $16


million which free information is roughly twice with the ship was valued just a year ago. We now


have only three single haul ships left in our own fleet and of three of those markets, all three of


those ships are for sale in the market and if we are able to get the kind of prices we want and that


we are being fairly demand price we will sell those also.


Moving on to another thing we talked about and that is the LNG business. I think since we talked


last we have now formally signed the joint venture agreement with Qatar Gas Transport Company


and Qatar Gas Transport Company may not be known to everybody on the call but they raised an


impressive $1.6 billion equity in the dollhouse [ph] chains of last month. They're going to become a


very important force in the shipping world, particularly, in the gas sector and others so, we are very


pleased to have them as a partner.


We have centered LNG business in Newcastle and we will build it up from there. This reflects our


view that in the LNG business you need to lead with your technical expertise. It's a demanding


trade. As you know, we have our main operations for our crude tankers up in Newcastle. This is a


good place for it. We will be bidding on additional LNG contracts but we will only bid at levels that


they give attractive and decent returns for LSG. Another big change in last year was our


recommitment to U.S Flag business. This is one of the few segments in shipping in which there is


high terrorist entry, there's high margin business, there's lots of long term business and there's a


very attractive competitive landscape and most important there is an acute need for investment in


this sector. During 2004 in the spring we brought two secondhand U.S. flag product tankers and


then earlier this year as we mentioned in the press release we signed four agreements with the


Maritime Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation to enter three U.S. flag product


carriers and one U.S. flag Pure Car Carrier into the a U.S. Maritime Security Program. Those that


may have known that we used to have just the one U.S. flag Car Carrier in there now we have four.


We're committed to growing in the U.S. flag space and meet our pursuing possibilities of building a