Management Discussion Section

&lt;&lt;Unverified Participant&gt;&gt;

My name is Dan Taku, President of AXXZIA, Inc. Thank you for taking the time out of your busy schedules to participate in today&#039;s financial results presentation. I would now like to begin today&#039;s presentation covering the Second Quarter of the Fiscal Year Ending July 2022.

Allow me to start with the executive summary, we registered a ¥3.934 billion in net sales in the first half of the fiscal year, a Y-o-Y increase of 49.7%. We registered ¥813 million in operating income, a Y-o-Y increase of 26.9%. These results exceeded the net sales and operating income forecasts by 15.6% and 31.4%, respectively.

Additionally, we achieved record high results at 11.11, China&#039;s largest annual e-commerce event topics worthy of note for the quarter were as follows. We registered a record high sales of AG Drink and Essence Sheet in the first half of the fiscal year. AXXZIA also launched new products, namely the White Aminos Drink, Hand Treatment and Moist Care Essence. Lastly, in December of last year, we launched to a 10th anniversary limited supply edition of Essence Sheet Premium. This product was well-received and sold out.

I would now like to discuss the consolidated P&amp;L. In the first half, net sales stood at ¥3.934 billion, corresponding to a Y-o-Y increase of ¥1.305 billion. Operating income stood at ¥813 million, corresponding to a Y-o-Y increase of ¥172 million. Regarding the operating margin, it stood at 24.4% last fiscal year, dropping to 20.7% as of the end of the second quarter of the current fiscal year. This drop was on account of our company&#039;s strategy.

Last fiscal year, we set an operating margin target of around 25%. However, this fiscal year, the strategy is that of an expansion in advertising expenses, as we would like to carry out investments in this manner with the objective of delivering a significant profit growth. As such, from the very beginning, the target for the current fiscal year has been an operating margin of 20%.

In terms of the realized results, this margin stood at 18% for the first quarter and 23% for the second quarter. This translates into a total operating margin of 20.7% for an overperformance compared to the forecast. Profit attributable to owners of parent stood at ¥542 million, a Y-o-Y increase of ¥146 million.

Next is the analysis of realized results versus the forecast. As of the end of the first half, net sales exceeded the forecast by ¥530 million for a progress rate of 115.6%. Operating income exceeded the forecast by ¥194 million for a progress rate of 131.4%. As of the end of the second quarter, profit attributable to owners of parent exceeded the forecast by ¥144 million for a progress rate of 136.4%.

Last time, we broke down by quarter the targets for the full fiscal year, but this time we have broken these into first half and second half of the fiscal year results. For AXXZIA, net sales tend to be concentrated in the second half of the fiscal year. This year, with the first half having a weighting of 47.8% and 52.2% for the second half. For operating income as well, the weighting forecast is 42.2% for the first half and 57.8% for the second half. Realized first half of the fiscal year operating income significantly exceeded the forecast of ¥619 million.

Net sales by region and channel are as shown here. Net sales in China stood at ¥3.638 billion for a sales composition share of 92.5%. This represents a Y-o-Y increase of ¥1.292 billion or a 55.1%. Net sales in Japan stood at ¥213 million for a sales composition share of 5.4%. This represents a Y-o-Y increase of ¥19 million or 10.2%. Overall, while we have been seeing growth in Japan, the scale of these results is small. Additionally, our operations in China delivered significant overall sales growth. And as a result, China, in the overseas market, accounts for around 95% of sales.

I would now like to discuss cumulative net sales through to the end of the first half by sales channel in the Chinese e-commerce market. Our main sales channel is currently Tmall Global listed here second from the top. This represents sales from our flagship store and it&#039;s generated sales of ¥969 million during the first half of the fiscal year for a Y-o-Y increase of ¥287 million or 42%.

Next, are RED and TikTok listed here third and fourth from the top. Regarding RED, from the very beginning we have been making steady progress in its use as an advertising and marketing tool. As such, sales for this category continue on a steady growth trajectory, with sales increasing by ¥135 million Y-o-Y or 82.3%. Regarding TikTok, this fiscal year was our first time opening a store on the platform, and the initial sales forecast for the full fiscal year was ¥400 million. However, we achieved ¥391 million in the first half alone, so this represents a strong starting dash.

Regarding Taobao listed here at the top, this represents wholesale sales. Our business model is to generate sales at our flagship stores and carry out to advertising. If sales for our flagship stores go up, so do wholesale sales. And this has been the case as shown here with a Y-o-Y increase in wholesale sales of ¥279 million or 27.4%. Sales have therefore been growing at a robust pace across all channels.

The cost of goods sold to sales ratio stood at 25.3%, a Y-o-Y improvement of 5 points. I believe the largest contributing factor was our ability to reduce costs for the ingredients that go into our products. The SG&amp;A-to-sales ratio was 54%, a Y-o-Y increase of 8.7 points. Realized advertising expenses totaled ¥744 million for a ratio to net sales of 18.9%. This represents a significant Y-o-Y increase. The target for the current fiscal year is 20% or lower, so these results are in line with the forecast.

Commissions paid stood at ¥614 million for a ratio to net sales of 15.6% due to a significant increase in sales at our flagship stores. Last fiscal year, sales were more or less split evenly between our flagship stores and wholesale to Taobao. This fiscal year, flagship stores now account for 55% of sales and wholesale for 45%, so this impacted commissions paid. On the other hand, sales grew significantly, so the ratio of personnel expenses to net sales dropped to 9.7%.

Next is a breakdown of Y-o-Y change for operating income. Net sales made a positive growth contribution of ¥1.305 billion. On the other hand, an increase in the cost of goods sold had a negative impact of ¥199 million, as did an increase in personnel expenses and advertising expenses by ¥425 million and in commissions paid. And we ultimately arrived at an overall Y-o-Y operating income increase of ¥172 million or 26.9%. As planned, we are making upfront investments in advertising in order to raise brand awareness, so sales have been increasing at a healthy pace.

Next is the consolidated balance sheet. We continued to maintain a robust financial position, including the current ratio and equity ratio. Current assets stood at ¥8.004 billion, non-current assets at ¥578 million, current liabilities at ¥749 million and non-current liabilities at ¥83 million. Total liabilities, therefore, stood at ¥833 million.

Here are the topics for the second quarter. Net sales of the mainstay Essence Sheet and AG Drink product series reached record high levels thanks to strong sales at 11.11 and a solid launch of our TikTok flagship store. In the first half, the Essence Sheet series delivered ¥1.862 billion in sales, up 74% Y-o-Y, while the AG Drink series delivered ¥1.235 billion, up 24.8% Y-o-Y.

We delivered a record-high sales add to the 11.11 event held in November of last year. The amounts shown here are in Chinese yuan. Sales increased by 57% Y-o-Y in what was a very strong performance. AXXZIA didn&#039;t offer large sales discounts to customers during 11.11, as our strategy is one allowing us to deliver sales with relative ease even after the end of this campaign. It is common for other industry players, such as, for example, large European companies to offer discounts of 50%, but the discounts we offer are more along the lines of 20%. In light of this, these were very strong results.

We also continue to have a good relationship with Baidu, and we have been using Baidu&#039;s new cross-border e-commerce advertising service. Going forward, we expect this to contribute to further sales growth.

In terms of new products and lines in the second quarter, we launched Venus Recipe: The White Drink, which is a skin lightning supplement. This isn&#039;t the first product in this series, but we chose a different manufacturer this time and created a new recipe from scratch. The result is a very effective product. We only recently started shipping this product, but we would like to grow this into an important pillar for us going forward.

First, we are commercializing this as a supplement and then later on sell this together with cosmetics, which has been AXXZIA&#039;s standard strategy over time. Shown at the bottom are our new hand treatment and body moist care essence products.

In terms of future initiatives, the main item is the acquisition of shares in Huit Laboratories and its conversion into a subsidiary as announced on March 4, 2022. The official date of acquisition is set for April 1, corresponding to an acquisition price of ¥860 million. Huit Laboratories does approximately ¥700 million in sales. And the end of fiscal year period for this company is December as opposed to July as is the case for AXXZIA. As such, we expect the sales impact to be fairly limited and of approximately ¥10 million in profit. These amounts are therefore small. However, AXXZIA had always wanted it to acquire a plant and we were able to achieve our goal after six months of hard work. As such, we have high hopes in terms of significant future synergies.

We believe acquiring a plant allows us to unlock various benefits and synergies. The initial budget for the construction of a new plant was ¥2 billion, and we were able to take a first step in achieving this by converting Huit Laboratories into a subsidiary for ¥860 million. Furthermore, it takes approximately three years to build a new plant with additional risks in securing qualified talent and the necessary operational know-how.

Another issue is the large amounts in depreciation expenses. Huit laboratories operations are very stable, in that it&#039;s already generates sales and has relationships with OEMs. So we believe this acquisition allowed us to reduce risk, hence why we are so hopeful about this initiative. Additionally, AXXZIA has very weak sales in Japan, so we hope to enhance our sales in the domestic market and our sales network by leveraging this amount of ¥700 million in sales together with existing sales channels.

While AXXZIA products, primarily retail from approximately ¥8,000 to ¥10,000 and above the main price point for products from Huit Laboratories is around ¥3,000. This price range works well and complements our existing price structure. Having new plant of our own allows us to speed up product development and overcome lot size limitations. This allows us to more rapidly leverage our strengths and additionally, internalizing some of the manufacturing operations that were previously outsourced allows us to reduce associated costs.

While this is not shown here, another advantage which we will be working towards in next fiscal year and beyond pertains to R&amp;D. Advertising and marketing as well as the way products look are important factors in selling cosmetics. However, the actual content of the products is a fundamental factor in cultivating a loyal customer base. Poor quality products could lead to customers abandoning our brand. So this acquisition allows us to further enhance our R&amp;D efforts going forward and secure our in-house know-how.

In addition to premium salon exclusive brands, we also offer medium range to high-end products like our aging care series and eye care series, as well as other products. Regarding future brand&#039;s development, Huit Laboratories brands will now become part of our lineup.

We have also opened a domestic Tmall e-commerce store in the Chinese market. Our strategy is to focus primarily on enhancing and expanding our presence in the e-commerce market in China. We initially started with a flagship store on Tmall, but we later opened stores on other platforms like Jingdong, RED and TikTok.

Furthermore, we are currently planning the launch of two new flagship e-commerce stores in China. Ultimately, we are aiming for around 10 flagship stores. Through these combined with wholesale stores, we would like to take on the market with a strategy focused primarily on e-commerce. Physical retail stores in China continue to struggle against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. So we would like to leverage this to enhance our e-commerce operations.

Once we have grown sales and brand awareness, we would like to launch a number of AXXZIA flagship stores as model stores for marketing purposes along the lines of the companies that have retail space in the exclusive GINZA SIX building in Japan. Additionally, it will also be easier to carry out online promotions.