Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Adam Kathiriya — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the P&F Industries' 2016 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning. Welcome to P&F Industries' 2016 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to exposure to fluctuations in energy prices, debt and debt service requirements, borrowing, compliance with covenants under our credit facility, disruption in the global capital and credit markets, the shrink in the retail economy in the United States and abroad, supply chain disruptions, customer concentration, adverse changes in currency exchange rates, impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill, unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns, market acceptance of products, competition, price reductions, interest rates, litigation and insurance, retention of key personnel, acquisition of business, regulatory environment, the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty, and information technology and systems failures and attacks, and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the SEC, including among others, as described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by on or behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning. Thank you, Rich, and good morning, everybody. Thank you all for joining us this morning. I will begin today's call with a brief summary of the company's results from continuing operations and earnings per share for fiscal year 2016 and how it compared to fiscal 2015. As this earning call precedes the release of our annual report filed on Form 10-K, I will incorporate some key fourth quarter 2016 financial data and how it compares to the same period in 2015. I will also discuss our 2016 results from discontinued operations and how that compared to 2015.

However, I direct you to our release from earlier today for more detailed information. The release this morning presented P&F's balance sheet, statements of income and earnings per share data, along with most of our management's discussion and analysis. Then I will ask Joe Molino to briefly review cash flow information and provide an update on key events affecting the company, after which we will move to our usual Q&A session.

And lastly, before I begin, I wish to remind all of you that the purpose of this call is to discuss and review the company's fiscal 2016 results. As such, I ask kindly that questions focus on our 2016 results only. Thank you for your cooperation.

And also, unless or otherwise noted, the financial information discussed on today's call refers to our continuing operations which excludes Nationwide Industries. As most of you know, we sold Nationwide in February 2016 and as a result, its adjusted results were included in discontinuing operations in both 2016 and 2015.

The company's consolidated revenue for 2016 was $57,276,000 compared to $60,312,000 in 2015. The company's 2016 net income was $6,901,000 compared to $3,544,000 for 2015, and P&F's reporting net income from discontinuing operations of $12,584,000 of which $12,512,000 is from the gain on the sale of Nationwide Industries compared to net income from discontinued operations, $1,688,000 for the prior year.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, the company was reporting a loss from continuing operations before taxes of $8,638,000 compared to income from continuing operations before taxes for the year ended December 31, 2015, of $22,681,000.

Significant factors contributing to the loss this year were, one, non-cash impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets of $9,581,000; two, a downward adjustment to the carrying value of certain inventory of $1,001,000; and three, partially offsetting the above, we recorded a gain on the sale of real property and was used by Nationwide of $1,703,000. We are reporting a net loss from continuing operations for 2016 at $5,683,000 compared to net income from continuing operations last year of $1,856,000.

For the three-month period ended December 31, 2016, our revenue was $12,507,000 compared to $13,771,000 for the same period in 2015. The company's fourth quarter 2016 net income was $61,000 compared to $401,000 in the same period a year ago. Fourth quarter loss from continuing operations before income taxes was $176,000 compared to income from continuing operations before income taxes of $407,000 in the fourth quarter of 2015. Net loss from continuing operations was $93,000 for the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to income from continuing operations of $346,000 for the same period in the prior year. Net income from discontinuing operations during the fourth quarter of 2016 was $154,000 compared to the $55,000 a year ago.

With respect to P&F's consolidated gross margin, it was 31.2% and 33.1% respectively for the three-month period and full-year ended December 31, 2016, compared to 34.3% and 35.9% respectively for the same periods in 2015. Florida Pneumatics' gross margins were relatively flat when comparing the fourth quarter of 2016 to the same period last year, whilst full year 2016 gross margin improved over 2015 by 120 basis points.

With respect to Hy-Tech's gross margin, we recorded an adjusted of $257,000 to the fair value of this inventory during the fourth quarter of 2016 and just $1 million for all of 2016. During 2015, there were no inventory fair value adjustments. Further, Hy-Tech's 2016 gross margin declined compared to the same period in 2015 due to, among other things, poor overhead absorption, in turn due primarily to less production running to the facility and our decision to comply with certain commitments and manufacture suite of very low gross margin products for a major ATSCO customer.

Our selling and general administrative expenses for the three-month period ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were $5,692,000, which includes all impairment charges from the $1,270,000 and $4,323,000 respectively. Our SG&A for all of 2016 was $29,191,000, which includes impairment charges of $9,581,000 compared to $19,157,000 in 2015. Our interest expense in 2016 was $181,000 compared to $116,000. Included in the above are debt issue costs of $128,000 and $111,000 respectively in 2016 and 2015. Our interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2016 was $17,000 compared to $30,000. Included in the above are debt issue costs of $10,000 and $28,000 respectively in 2016 and 2015. As previously mentioned at November of 2016, we sold the Tampa, Florida facility which resulted in a net gain of approximately $1.7 million.

With respect to per-share data, 2016 basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations was $1.58 compared to basic earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.51 in 2015 and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2015 of $0.49. Basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations for 2016 were $3.50 compared to basic earnings per share from discontinued operations in 2015 of $0.47, and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations in 2015 of $0.45. Lastly, our full-year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and impairment charges and depreciation was $3,760,000 compared to the prior year's $5.589 million.

At this time, I'd ask Joe Molino to provide some insight into our cash flow. Joe?

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during fiscal 2016 were $1.66 million compared to $1.261 million in 2015. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during 2016 were depreciation and amortization of $1.620 million, amortization of other intangible assets of $1.016 million, amortization of debt issue costs of $128,000, and net deferred income tax change of $3.946 million. Additionally, as Richard had mentioned, there was a gain in the sale of fixed assets of $1.7 million.

Other significant components that impacted our net cash used in operating activities of continuing operations were a decrease in accounts receivable of $498,000, offset by increases in both inventory and prepaid expenses of $316,000 and $2.006 million, respectively.

As a final note, in the aggregate, the company paid $2.335 million in dividends during fiscal 2016 and made a $0.05 per common share quarterly dividend payment just recently in February of 2017 of $180,000.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. With all these numbers, there are a lot of numbers flying back and forth all over the place, and me and Joe, we understand it. We're comfortable with it since we live it every day. But I can only imagine, with all the numbers flying back and forth, how confusing this can be to those of you on the call. Let me just give you my 40,000-foot assessment of the company, so that you can get a better sense or a better comfort level.

Last year, we sold our one non-tool company division, and we sold it for a little over $22 million. And we paid very – it was a very, very tax-efficient transaction, with very little taxes paid. Then we sold the building at Nationwide at about $3.5 million. With those two things, our debt was paid down totally to – dropped dramatically under $1 million. And at the same time, we had a one-time dividend of, I believe, $0.50 a share and we've been continuing quarterly dividends thereafter.

The reason we sold the company Nationwide was because we want to refocus on tools, which is our mission now and that's what it was. And really, when you look at our whole company, Florida Pneumatic was up very nicely for the year and Hy-Tech was down and the reasons were cited, with oil and gas, et cetera, et cetera. But I will say that Hy-Tech has shown signs of improvement this quarter and we're very – we're much more optimistic than we have been before.

So I just would like to keep – I just want to tell you those things so that you can keep it all -a sense of perspective because the numbers look more daunting than the actual condition of the company is. And in the meantime, I'd like to acknowledge, as always, all of our employees and management for doing such outstanding jobs during these difficult economic times.

And now that's the end of our report today. We'd be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And we do have a question from [ph] Jan Spenda (13:39).

Hey there, guys. Do you hear me?

Yes.

Thanks for taking my question. So firstly, could you please tell me what percentage would you say Sears accounted for the total revenue for this fiscal year?

Let's see, off the top of my head, 12% in that range.

Okay. So that's of the total revenue, yeah, not only from the tool, yes?

Well, all of Sears revenue is – yes, that's total revenue of P&F. But keep in mind...

Sure.

...in terms of revenue we reported in continuing operations, it was only tool revenue. The discontinued operation does not show up as revenue.

Yeah. Sorry, I meant, the Florida Pneumatic, yeah, sure. Got it. So in terms of – because you mentioned in the press release that you are looking to not renew the contract, so I was thinking what would be the gross margin impact on that – of that discontinuing the Sears?

Yeah. Well, we don't look at the Sears business at the gross margin level since there are tremendous expenses we were required to outlay in that relationship. But just roughly speaking, if you were comparing the business after we exit the Sears relationship, it's approximately a change to the EBITDA of around $1 million or so.

Okay. Sure. So the impact wouldn't really be there. Got it. And just on the general level, do you think that there's any opportunity to cast any overhead cost?

Yes. There will be and that is factored into the number I gave you. The people that handle that business do things other than just manage the Sears relationship. But that estimate I gave you would included reduction of some variable overhead.

Okay, sure. And on this – apart from Sears, because obviously I mean the business is kind of sticking to your view due to the macro environment. Are you comfortable with the current kind of overhead and expenses that you guys have there or?

Yes. But having said that, once we exit that situation, we will reevaluate that. But at this point, we're comfortable.

Okay, sure. And just lastly, should Hy-Tech revenue continue to underperform, are you thinking of writing off further inventory or is that something that you're happy with right now?

Given the current level of activity, I don't have a crystal ball, but we don't anticipate any material changes in inventory value.

Okay, sure. And also actually could you just give me an approximation of what percentage of inventory is tied to its subsidiary? So what percentage is Hy-Tech and what percentage is Florida?

It's close to 50/50. I mean, I think there may be a little more inventory at Florida Pneumatic than Hy-Tech at this point. Without the Sears relationships, it probably gets closer to even but fairly distributed. I would say this is ballpark 55% to 60% Florida Pneumatic, maybe 40% Hy-Tech in that range. Certainly no more than...

Sure. Sure. Sure. And just actually one more follow-up in terms of the automated revenue, what sort of opportunities are you looking forward because you mentioned some in the press release but it was – are you looking for some specific use case in terms of that or...

I'm not sure I'm following you. Automated revenue or automotive revenue?

Automotive, yes. Automotive, yes.

Okay. Okay, sorry about that. So maybe you could ask the question again with respect to automotive revenue.

Yeah. And so in the press release, you're mentioning that you are going to focus on expanding the customer base.

Yes.

Do you have any specific use case in mind or is it just the general business that you've been [indiscernible] (18:13)?

No. No. We stated in the last call and we announced in the fall the release of a new suite of tools that are targeted to a slightly different portion of the automotive aftermarket. These would be tools used in bodywork. The suite of tools we've had up and through the fall was primarily in repair, targeted towards car repair. We came up with a suite of tools in the fall or beginning to promote them now that are targeted towards bodywork, so fender benders and working on the exteriors of cars.

Sure. Well, thanks very much. I think that's all for me. Thanks.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Adam Kathiriya with Lawndale Capital.

Hey. Thanks, guys, for taking our questions. Greatly appreciate it. Just with regards to Hy-Tech, what is the status of your development efforts to open new industry channels for Hy-Tech? And in general, what kind of acquisitions might similarly work for Hy-Tech?

With respect to your first question, we are just starting to see orders and some serious negotiations with respect to some of these non-standard lines of tools and expect to have more announcements about that in the next call or two. So I would say our efforts there are starting to bear some fruit and should begin to impact the top line probably beginning in earnest in Q2 in a more significant way.

With respect to acquisitions, the acquisition search we're doing is with respect to both Florida Pneumatic and Hy-Tech. There are certain – these companies and types of companies we're looking at that would be – fits for both. So we're absolutely not forgetting about Hy-Tech in the acquisition search. It's not just for Florida Pneumatic bolt-ons. I don't know if that answers your question, but...

Yeah. That was helpful. And then – let's see here, just looking at your release back in September, you guys began shipping new products that utilize the extensive air tool motor manufacturing knowledge to new OEM markets and customers, and you guys specifically noted processing, transportation and industrial maintenance, can you update us on the progress on this front?

Yeah. The markets we're working on, without getting into a lot of detail, would be industrial maintenance that we absolutely have made some progress there. We're making more progress in food production market. And then lastly, in some – the transportation market. So I say all three of those are on track. Those three are three new markets to us that will be in full swing on probably by the middle of this year.

Okay. Thank you. And you guys have previously stated that should Hy-Tech's prospects deteriorate there could be some additional impairment charges and so forth. Approximately, how much goodwill and intangible asset value remains on the balance sheet that's associated with Hy-Tech?

That's a good question. Give me one second, I can get you the answer. Goodwill, there's – we don't – I don't believe there's any goodwill left so we'd be just looking at some intangibles. I think I'm going to speak off the top of my head, it's less than $1 million, does that sound about right? Intangibles. We're going to – we're double-checking. If you could bear with me, ask me another question. We'll get you a more specific answer.

Yeah. That works, and thanks so much again for taking our questions. Let's see. With Florida Pneumatic, specifically with AIRCAT. On the last call you guys spoke of additional AIRCAT products that came online. You guys mentioned maybe it's a dozen of them or so. Can you update us on how they're performing, and if you think they're doing – I think you guys described them as sensational as you'd stated on the last call.

I think you're referring to the suite of tools being targeted towards body work.

Yeah.

Those have just launched so I don't really have a lot of feedback on that, probably have a lot more to say about that in the next couple of calls.

Right. Right.

Just to answer your question, the remaining intangibles related to Hy-Tech are just under $700,000.

Okay. And I have a few more questions, and I know that there's probably other people on the call who would like to ask questions, but you've said you have had additional geography primarily in Central Europe. Sorry, this is with regards to Florida Pneumatic developing for AIRCAT and other tools with regards to distribution opportunities. Can you provide an update on that?

Not a lot of progress. We're still hopeful but progress has been kind of slow. We really never expected that to begin in earnest until Q2. So we're still hopeful that that will be the case, but there's really nothing new to report on that right now.

Okay. And with regards to Home Depot, what is your current experience in visibility with respect to them. And you'd mentioned that you've previously had a launch with Home Depot Canada that was quite favorable, yet it's like just a fraction of the U.S. business and if you could just touch on that as well.

Well, with respect to – I'm not sure what the first part of your question I could answer exactly. Our relationship there continues. I would say that if you put Canada aside, the growth rate there has definitely slowed down as that has gotten to be mature. Our line has gotten filled. Until we add other products, I probably wouldn't expect a lot of growth there.

With respect to Canada which again is probably less than 10% of the size of the U.S. market, we did launch that last year and we expect that to grow a little bit this year. But again, I'm not sure you're going to notice that growth even though it's double digits in Canada. It's just not going to be that material to the consolidator.

Understood. And I'll step back into the queue, but we have additional questions as well.

There are nobody else on the queue, so you can finish your questions.

Okay, perfect.

Do you have other questions?

Yes. Yes, just give me a moment. Just going back to Hy-Tech, I mean you guys have frequently called out the price of crude oil and the resulting reduced rig count as a cause of Hy-Tech's revenue decline. With rig count up, oil trending up until very recently, have you seen any changes or your fortunes turn at all over there?

Yes. Through the end of the year, we had seen very little. But I can report that probably in the last 45 days, we're absolutely seeing some activity. We're hopeful that that will continue and grow. So there's some reason for optimism there.

Okay. And then just more on a, let's see here, corporate level. With regards to potential acquisitions and acquisition process, what are you seeing as the most desirable areas from a synergy standpoint as well as from a valuation perspective?

I think the most desirable opportunities would be ones where there'd be air tools that serve markets that are distinct from markets we've got right now, whether that would be a particular application or a particular kind of channel or maybe even a different geography than we currently serve. So they would be tools we're familiar with but we don't really have a brand or a name in that market. So that's what we're looking at. Those are the types of things that seem to make the most sense that we're actively pursuing.

Okay. And let's see here, P&F's just like any other company, the valuation multiple is going to be directly impacted by the costs, the company's cost of capital and thus the value that can be added from acquisitions or other uses of company capital. We know in the past that you didn't feel that Investor Relations efforts were worthwhile from a financial or time perspective. And just with regards to some pretty high sell-off in P&F shares, some crazy levels, have you given any thought to increasing the company's investor communications efforts?

I have not seen any crazy levels of selling that you're referring to, frankly. But we have discussed this many times and we just really – at this point, we don't feel that that's a story that we have much to say right now. We do it through our conference calls and it's been productive and successful. I don't think – we have no plans at this moment to go into any small cap conferences if that's what you're asking us.

At least not as presenters.

Not as presenters. We certainly visit those conferences and get a sense of the market and all that. And we'll be doing – we do attend those and we'll continue to do that. But as a presenter, I don't think that would serve us well at this point.

Okay. And what would, I guess, change your minds about that? What specifically during the thought process would change your minds on that?

I mean, I'm not sure how to answer that. I'm not sure how the market is any different than when it was when you used to do this with very little results. Maybe there's some dynamic that I'm not following, but I'm not sure that given our situation, it makes a lot of sense unless there's something different about the market than when it was last time we tried it.

Well, we've done it before and it has not been successful at all because people [indiscernible] (28:58) that they can easily get into the stock but they couldn't as easily get out of the stock. And we discussed – I've mentioned that answer in the past. It was like the answer, but that's what they told us, not our answer. And as Joe said, I don't see any dynamic that's changed that would make it seem like it's any better now to do it than when it was. So very closely held stock position between a very few people. It's the greatest preponderance of ownership and there's not that much flowing out there. So I don't know what we benefit from in that regard.

Okay. And then can you update us on the board's process and position with regards to adopting a 10b5 plan and a potential buyback?

Again, we discussed that at our recent meeting, which was a couple of weeks ago. We spent a considerable amount of time talking about it and it's the collective wisdom, very unanimously, that we want to use our funds for acquisitions, which is the refocusing of our company. And that's where we want to spend our funds and our attention right now.

So that's where we'll [indiscernible] (30:04). We'll continue and review it but that's – and of course, remember, we do a dividend. We give you a dividend. We give every stockholder a dividend quarterly and then one-time dividend that was last year, I mentioned earlier. So that's continuing that. But in terms of anything else, that's our position at this point.

Okay. Thanks. And just a couple more of questions for you guys. This is with regards to CapEx. Regarding the Hy-Tech CNC machine, that was a pretty big CapEx item last quarter. You'd said it was still running well below your capacity, and activity levels were nowhere close to where you'd like them to be. Have you guys increased those activity levels, and do you see more visibility as whether that expenditure is actually teeing off as anticipated?

Well, it'll pay off if activity levels continue to rise. I think with respect to efficiencies, the equipment purchases have always – have recently improved those. But really, to get the full benefit out of these machines, activity levels have to get back to more – closer to where they were.

Okay. And can you just discuss some CapEx plans for 2017, and any major projects that are embarked on or expect to be embarked on?

I think for 2017 I would say it's probably going to be a little more of a modest year in terms of capital expenditures. I don't anticipate any major pieces of equipment of Hy-Tech. But as between Hy-Tech and Florida Pneumatic, certainly we would be expecting the typical tooling capital expenditures that would be – come along with new product development. But major, major large pieces of equipment, I would say, probably not in 2017.

Okay. And just the last question for you guys, and this is going back to Florida Pneumatic and specifically within the industrial, you called out aerospace as a sub-segment that was to see several new products before year-end. You said that it could be a long lag time...

Yeah.

...and there wasn't great visibility on that front. But can you update us on the progress on that?

We have continued to look at that and evaluate the opportunities in the market. So for right now, we don't have anything new to announce on aerospace development. We may have more to say about that the next quarter or two, but as of now there's nothing material to discuss. But that could change.

Okay. Well, thanks so much, guys. I think you've answered our questions right now.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And gentlemen, with no further questions, I'll turn the call back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Well, thank you all for being on our call today. I want to take you back to my comments at the end of my presentation about the company, and we look forward to giving you a good report in the next few – upcoming quarters Have a good day, everybody.

Thank you. And that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.