Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Vice President, Treasurer, Secretary, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the P&F Industries Incorporated 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to P&F Industries 2018 conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates, and expectations which are subject to various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, exposure to fluctuations in energy prices; debt and debt service requirements; borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility; disruption in the global capital and credit markets; the strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad; supply chain disruptions; customer concentration; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill; unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns; market acceptance of products; competition; price reductions; interest rates; litigation and insurance; retention of key personnel; acquisition of businesses; regulatory environment; the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty; and information technology systems failures and attacks; and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the SEC, including among others, as described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning, Rich, and good morning, everybody. Thank you all for joining us this morning for our year-end 2018 conference call. I will begin today's call with a brief summary of our 2018 results and how this data compares to the prior year. However, I direct you to our release earlier today for more information. This morning's release presented P&F's balance sheet, statement of operations, per share data, along with most of our management's discussion and analysis.

I also wish to emphasize that the purpose of today's call, as always, is solely to discuss and review the company's results for the year ended, December 31, 2018. As such, I insist that you please confine your questions to that topic only. I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information and provide an update on any key events affecting the company. After which, we will move to our usual Q&A session.

The company's 2018 consolidated revenue was $64,995,000 compared to $58,974,000 in 2017. As discussed in the company's earnings announcement released earlier today, as a result of our adoption of the new revenue recognition standards which became effective January 1 of last year, certain expenses that were previously accounted for in our SG&A cost prior to the adoption, now accounted for as a reduction to revenue, gross margin, and SG&A. While the adoption of this new accounting standard did not affect our net income, it did cause us to reduce Florida Pneumatics 2018 revenue, gross profit, and our consolidated SG&A each by $1,007,000.

Florida Pneumatics 2018 revenue was $50,720,000, an increase over 2017's revenue of $46,471,000. This net increase of $4,249,000 or 9.1% was driven by increased revenue in our Industrial/catalog lines of nearly $1.5 million and growth in Aerospace of more than $4.1 million. I should note that 2017's Aerospace revenue was for approximately nine months. However, our average monthly Aerospace revenue during 2018 was greater than that in 2017.

Additionally, Florida Pneumatics' Automotive revenue improved year-over-year by more than $500,000. These improvements were partially offset by a net decline in its retail revenue, which was adversely affected by a decision in late 2017 to terminate our agreement with Sears. Increased shipments in The Home Depot in 2018 minimized the net reduction of our retail revenue.

Hy-Techs 2018 revenue improved 14.2% over 2017, with revenue of $14,275,000 compared to $20 million – excuse me, $12,503,000 reported in the prior year. The primary components to this net increase were greater shipments related to our Engineered Solutions initiative, which continues to strengthen along with increased revenue of ATSCO and Pneumatics product lines.

The company's 2018 consolidated gross margin was 35.7% compared to 35.8% in 2017. I wish to note that on a year-over-year basis, Hy-Techs gross margin increased 3.3 percentage points. This increase was primarily due to greater absorption of its manufacturing overhead costs, driven by greater throughput through the facility, product mix, and price increases on certain of our product lines. Additionally, Hy-Tech has also been able to reduce its obsolete and slow moving inventory charges this year compared to year ago. And lastly, as noted earlier, Florida Pneumatics gross margin was impacted by the adoption of new revenue recognition standards which caused a 1.2 percentage point reduction in their gross margin.

Our 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses was $21,705,000 compared to $21,034,000 in 2017. As a result of the adoption of the ASC 606, the new revenue recognition standard I've referred to earlier, we now classify certain expenses totaling $1,007,000 as reductions to gross revenue that in 2017 prior to this adoption were accounted for as variable expenses in our SG&A. During 2018, we recorded a charge of $150,000 leading to the increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration payable to the seller of Jiffy. These charges in 2018 adjusted the carrying value of our obligation to $1,000,000 which in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement is a maximum contingent obligation amount payable to the seller of Jiffy. I should note that we expect to pay this amount sometime during the second quarter of 2019.

Lastly, the company's interest expense during 2018 was $223,000 compared to $168,000 incurred during 2017. This increase was primarily due to higher interest rates, increased revolver borrowings, and an increase in the amortization of debt issue cost. Taking all the above into consideration, I'm pleased to announce that for the year ended December 31, we were reporting pre-tax income of $1,109,000 compared to a pre-tax loss of $249,000 in 2017.

On an after-tax basis, we are reporting 2018 net income of $856,000 compared to an after-tax loss in 2017 of $884,000. It should be noted that in December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted, we should note that as a result of that, our 2017 effective tax rate was unusually high. 2018 basic earnings per share was $0.24 compared to a basic loss per share of $0.25 for 2017. 2018 diluted earnings per share was $0.23 compared to basic loss per share of $0.25 in the previous year. As a reminder, I refer you to this morning's press release for additional information.

At this time, Joe Molino will discuss our cash flows. Joe?

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during 2018 were $2,278,000 compared to $910,000 during 2017. Significant non-cash items affecting our 2018 cash flows were depreciation and amortization of $1,383,000, amortization of intangible assets of $702,000. Stock-based compensation of $241,000, a change in deferred taxes of $253,000, change and allowance for doubtful accounts of $121,000, an increase in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration payable to the seller of the business assets of Jiffy of $150,000, amortization of debt issue cost of $95,000, and finally amortization of cost per contribution to a customer store reset of $122,000.

Additionally, significant components and impacted cash provided by operating activities during 2018 were a decrease of $482,000 in accounts receivable, an increase of $901,000 in inventory, an increase of $988,000 in other assets, and finally, a change in accounts and accrued liabilities payable in the aggregate of $368,000 that was an increase.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. As I always like to do, I'd like to acknowledge all of our employees and management for their continued outstanding performance and our customers for their support. We've always believed in our company's products and customers, but our dedicated employees deserve a big thank you for their dedication and commitment to our company and our customers.

With that, that's the end of our report today and we'll be happy to answer anybody's questions we can find. [Operator Instructions]

And we do have a question from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Thank you. I have several questions. I'll ask a few and then back out into the queue. In particular, getting to Aerospace and Jiffy and Pneumatics and the mix of the business, you had talked about capacity expansion was stated as a major focus for Jiffy in the last call. And you said that you had made significant progress on that front since the acquisition, but there could still be more room for improvement. Can you discuss your progress that has been made and what visible steps or milestones might remain for increasing capacity?

Well, I guess we're talking about the facility out in Nevada.

Nevada.

But – Nevada, Nevada. In addition to that, we have some availability in our Pittsburgh operation to assist with that. So, between the two of them, we think that we've got plenty of capacity for what we foresee the revenue opportunities in the next 12 and 24 months.

Okay. And I think you spoke of on that last call about initiatives beginning to marry up Pittsburgh, Jiffy, Hy-Tech and Florida Pneumatics' resources to go after the market in a bigger way, but you didn't have much insight in November about that. Here we are at the end of March, can you further discuss those initiatives and any signs of traction or success yet and your thoughts on the upcoming year with these efforts?

I mean, I will say that joint sales calls are being made between the teams. Individual salespeople are representing lines of both Jiffy and Pneumatics. So, we're moving along on that strategy. These lead times for Aerospace are quite long. So, I would imagine it will be several quarters before I'll be able to report any particular success. But we're happy with how it's going so far.

Okay. And to what extent are your Jiffy or other Aerospace tools part of a large Boeing 737 build-out and backlog?

We are on that line. Our tools are being used to assemble most of that jet, from the fuselage, cabin to whatever.

Right. And how about the competitive models either within Boeing or elsewhere that would be considered alternatives to the 737 Max, should there be a diminution of Boeing's backlog there?

Well, the direct competitive model is the Airbus 321, I believe, which we do not – we're not on that line, if that's what you're talking about. To the extent there are other Boeing jets that people would utilize in addition, other versions of the 737 were on those lines...

You're all expecting in those. Okay.

We're expecting on most of the Boeing's production, yeah.

Okay. And then – and another big initiative of yours, you spoke of in the last call that I want to start off here and get updated on was I wasn't sure if this was just Florida Pneumatic or both segments, but you were sure to be developing AIRCAT and aerospace tools and distribution opportunities for Europe, and we're hoping I think to bring on board someone to maybe lead those efforts. Can you give us an update on those European efforts and the timing and when the inroads might prove more meaningful?

Yeah. We had someone that began work on January 1, and they have been traveling extensively throughout Europe and calling on major players in aerospace and also some industrial distribution as well. We've already seen some early successes, but I don't think they're quite material enough yet that we can point anything out. But we are definitely having some success in bringing on some business.

Okay. I have obviously other questions, but let me back out in case some others are here on the call and asking.

There's nobody else on the queue window.

Okay. I'll continue on. Regarding Hy-Tech, I'm trying to get a handle on the pace of future growth of Engineered Solutions products which you've talked about the ramp up, especially in terms of substantial growth that had occurred in a year-over-year up through Q3 in open order level. Can you describe or comment about the open order level of Engineered Solutions products at year-end? And how does that compare to the prior year-end and what was Engineered Solutions product revenue in Q4 versus the prior year?

We don't break out Engineered Solutions product revenue by itself. But I can tell you that the backlog is up consistent with the growth in that product line in 2018.

Okay. On previous calls, you said you desired to add another Hy-Tech shift, but the problem you were running into was getting supervisory manpower. But you also thought you can improve capacity without a second shift if necessary. Can you update us on your efforts here?

Yeah. We have been able to avoid, if that's the right word, a second shift. We've been able to produce product efficiently with the one shift. Now, I say one shift, mind you, we have some unattended machines that are fairly sophisticated that can run overnight without anyone managing them. So, that does help. So, I don't know if I'd call that a second shift, but, I guess, it is in a way. It's just that nobody is there.

Okay. The robots are running the show.

It's not 2050 yet, but yeah, yeah, yeah. We've got some robots.

Okay. And Florida Pneumatic, as of November, you said it was too soon to tell and how the Home Depot consumers would accept a newly refreshed product line but that you would following year-end have a better sense at the store level even if not at the tool or SKU level. So, how has the new product line performed? How did it fair against the other Home Depot labels that were said to be offered this winter season, and do you feel the new Home Depot tools will generate similar or higher levels of revenues than your legacy line of tools through Home Depot?

Dave, Home Depot has told us just recently at our product line is up a bit like that's all and almost 10% or something to that line from the new – from the old numbers. So, that's number one. Number two, they ordered heavily in the fourth quarter. So, it's in their system, it doesn't necessarily result in orders for us yet, but they're telling us the sell-through is doing well so far. There's also another line that they brought into their business, a regular name brand, I'm not quite sure what the name is, but it's their own brand – not their own brand, one of their other customer's brands and that brand is also on the line. They told us they were going to be doing that and that was going to have some sort of an effect on our business going forward, we knew that when we made into arrangement and it hasn't really been significant yet, but it's there. So, time will tell.

Okay.

Yeah. The only thing I would add is that other brand that's brought in is at a different price point, it's a much higher price point. So, it could be if somebody is looking for the entry level tool. It's unclear that that higher price point tool is really going to hurt us. But for some people, the brand may dry them in that direction. But it's not directly [indiscernible] (00:19:57) that way.

So, it's like – so a separately advertised brand versus you guys, you make the Home Depot Husky brand.

Correct.

Correct.

That's right.

Yeah. Okay. And along this line of questions, regarding the estimated 200 basis point reduction in margin, is that the new product line was to entail, was there any greater visibility on whether Home Depot was taking that spread as extra profit or offering the new products at either more competitive pricing or with greater promotion spend form Home Depot behind it?

Yeah. We don't get that information. They don't share that with us. It could be all of those.

Okay. A combination. And also, could it also be part of what is absorbing the tariffs?

I don't – well, I don't think that.

I don't think so.

I don't think so.

We'd be guessing, Andrew. It wouldn't [indiscernible] (00:21:10).

Okay. All right. Well then, let's not guess. Has or when will your co-op marketing payments to Home Depot take place?

If you're referring to the adjustments for the reset that were made in 2018, those are done. That cash is out the door. There are – just so we're clear, there was a significant amount of money over $1 million spent last year in resetting the stores. But there are always ongoing, we call, program elements for Home Depot and they're identified as commissions. They're identified as rebates, advertising. There's all sorts of things that are deducted from the revenue we're charged back to us, to cover various things.

Right. But you talked about one that that was going to be a sizable payment that was going to be amortized over, I think, over a four-year period.

Yeah. That's correct. That's done. It's out the door and it happened in 2018. It will be amortized through 2021 – 2022.

Okay. So, where will the capitalization be placed on the balance sheet?

It's in other assets.

Okay.

And that will be amortized...

And...

Current. And it will be other assets current and other assets long term.

All right. And then, the amortization of this expense will go – where will it go through the income statement from the top as a reduction of revenue or lower down starting at SG&A or cost of goods sold?

The reduction of revenue.

Okay. From the reduction of revenue, okay. You mentioned one last thing here on the I guess on these products, which is rarely where the tariffs are. You discussed how the first round of tariff-motivated price increases were put in place and absorbed, and that the next 10% tariff that occurred on January 1 was also now absorbed within suppliers and customers and of course, the final 15% is yet to be determined because it hasn't been implemented yet by the administration. While these price increases have been absorbed, have the products themselves experienced any slowdown in unit sales as a result? Or can you tell?

We don't believe there's been any impact at the store level as a result of these tariffs.

Great. You mentioned on the last call that P&F is sourcing some Craftsman product to Stanley Black & Decker. Is it a meaningful amount?

It was more last year. It was not meaningful, but it's virtually finished at this point.

Okay. All right. So, it was more just kind of a transition as Stanley Black & Decker took the products off at Sears, okay. In the Automotive side of the business, you discussed in the last call the disruptions at two very large automotive distributors over the past year caused some headwinds to your business in this sector. Has there been some stabilization and what are you prospects for the coming year?

I would say, yeah, I think things have stabilized a bit. We're fairly happy with the introduction we made last fall of our [ph] Vibratherm (00:24:47) line of AIRCAT tools. Those seemed to be received very well in the – out in the field. In fact, we're back ordered on a couple of items. So, that's always it. It's a good and a bad thing. It's great that there's that much demand. It's bad that we missed our forecast, but rather that than on sitting on a lot of inventory. So yeah, I would say things are stabilized, to answer your question.

And can you mention since this is behind them now, who these two large automotive distributors were?

No. We prefer not to.

Okay. All right. Can you update us on Universal's local currency actual performance during the quarter and the year?

The UK operation?

Yeah, Universal's in UK, but it's subject to some potentially wild currency swings because of Brexit. So, I was just wondering on a local currency basis, how labor performing during the quarter and the year.

On a local basis, they were down a little bit in the fourth quarter.

Okay. And for the year?

Also down for the year.

For the year – for the quarter and for the year.

On local currency.

And not meaningful for the year as well?

Correct.

Correct.

Okay. I have more. Let me back out and give a chance in case someone else queued up.

I don't see – I don't think we have.

Well, why don't you back out and we'll let the operator check. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go back to Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Okay. Thank you. So, you talked on the last call and a few calls that you were spending – looking at where and how the company is going to grow its earnings, obviously, one area is in the buyback and retirement of shares accretively which we'll get to in a second. Another was perspective product line extensions that you were spending a decent amount of efforts and internal products development and other is on the acquisition.

So, on the product extension side and the new product introductions, it's been November – so it's been about four or five months. It's been a third of the year. Are there any new product introductions – product extensions that are meaningful that have evolved and are being now introduced or are to be introduced into the market either in Aerospace, Automotive, or elsewhere that are worthy of discussing?

Well, as I mentioned earlier, the big launch in the fall of our [ph] Vibratherm (00:27:49) line of AIRCAT tools has been very successful. So that's out there. We have other development activities going on in Aerospace, a number of them. Nothing I can report on right now. I'm hopeful that in a quarter or two, we'll have more to talk about. But they're progressing. We're optimistic.

On the Engineered Solutions side, we can – that product development is continuous, so it's not as if there's any big launch. It's just sort of one project after another as we identify these niches. But development is ongoing. And there's probably as much development going on now as there ever has been in the company.

Right. And then, in the Engineered Solutions, variety of different industries, et cetera, nothing has gotten large enough or big enough yet to call out on its own?

Not yet.

Okay. You have some hopes for some that might be big enough to call out on their own in the coming quarters?

Yeah. I think there's an opportunity for one or two to get big enough.

Okay. So then moving on to the next of the triad of growing this company's earnings and cash flow and that is acquisitions. You've had Jiffy for a while that seems to be fully absorbed in pretty well and you're now really hitting the ground running on the integration. Pneumatics was a narrower and it's more like specific product line. Are there any particular areas of focus on the acquisition front? What are you – are you seeing more or less businesses in valuation multiples come in to give you more opportunities to look at or are things staying overly pricey and nothing too active on the acquisition side?

I wouldn't say anything is overly pricey. I think there are opportunities out there for us. We're trying to focus on one or two strategic areas. And so, I don't think there's any – there's no structural reason in the market that we shouldn't be able to get something done.

Andrew, we're only looking – I don't know if you're asking this question, but we're only looking for acquisitions in a narrow range of complementary businesses. We're not going outside of the scope of where we are. Been there, done that, we're not doing that again. So, it's a little more exacting and is a little smaller field of potential targets. But, having said that, we're continuing in and we work on it pretty much every day actually, and [indiscernible] (00:30:50) report, you'll know, like everybody else will, if we anything to report down the road.

Right. Yeah. Okay. And then, going to the last of the triad here. Remarkably, your press release made no mention of any current shares outstanding number or even the one – I was a little surprised even the shares outstanding number used for EPS calculations, so all we have to go off of is your Q3 10-Q number. Can you provide us with the more current outstanding share count or fully diluted share count, whether it's fiscal year-end or where we are in March after the sizeable repurchase of the Fidelity shares?

Approximate.

I can give you an approximate number, about $3.2 million is an approximate number. But, that will end up, that will be the number to – that number will be disclosed in the 10-K in the next day or two.

Okay. So the approximate, I heard Richard, the lawyer, Goodman pipe in in there, the approximate $3.2 million number, that is approximately currently post-Fidelity buyback?

Well, correct. Yeah.

Okay, great. Well, that's a nice reduced number. Your detailed breakdown in comparison for the fiscal year was great. However, can you provide some breakdowns and comparisons for the most recent December quarter, including the impact of the new revenue recognition standard adoption for comparing Q4 versus Q4, because we don't know what to really back out, to do an apples to apples comparison for the fourth quarter?

I mean, as you know, we made the decision a couple of years back to not get into that level of detail for Q4. Having said that, since rev 606 was a special event, I can share with you that that adjustment for the fourth quarter was $278,000. So, you would calculate – I'm sorry, $228,000, excuse me, I can't read my own handwriting, $228,000, so that would be the adjustment to revenue margin in SG&A.

Okay, good, because that definitely is needed. [indiscernible]

(00:33:10) beginning in Jan – beginning in Q1, everything anniversaries and it will be apples to apples.

Great. Okay. And last, but not least, you know, you said previously if you had something to talk about perhaps, you'd spend some time articulating the investment proposition via IR activity. I know, actually, it's an interesting balance, but to be fair to all shareholders, probably one should balance IR activity with the fact that you're actively looking to buyback and retire shares. And, I'd love for you to buy back shares as cheaply as possible. But, do you have some thoughts, let's say, what's the feedback from the board as to what type of things you'd be looking for that would be worthwhile IR activity in terms of either Internet from your office or something even local in terms of conferences and telling your story too, we'll call it the MicroCap investment population? I don't think there's a large tools investment cadre, but there certainly is a decent population focused on MicroCap companies of your size.

I mean, Andrew, we had a board meeting two weeks ago actually – or three weeks ago, and it was fairly unanimous – not fairly unanimous, it was unanimous that nobody on the board felt at this time that Investor Relations was something that we should be focusing on, other than how we do it right now. It just so happens, we've had two firms contact us of late, and one actually, I think – I believe you know about them already, but they came in from out of town and we spent a couple of hours with them.

And, I don't know if they've had – they left, and they went to visit one of our factories. And, we don't have any update as to if they bought any stock or they didn't buy any stock, we don't really know. But, we did that. So, we do it in a targeted basis when approached or somebody comes to us. But, I think right now, our board was – and we'll review it again at the Annual Meeting as we do it every board meeting. But, as of now, there was no overriding desire to do anything more than what we do in that regard. I don't know if that's answering your question. But that's...

Well, I guess I'm wondering what the cons were and is it a cost effectiveness issue? Is it a – whether it is the resource allocation concern of the board? Because obviously, a higher valuation on our shares obviously offsets the aggressive buyback activity, but the higher valuation on the shares does lower the company's cost of capital, especially as one looks to make other strategic acquisitions, et cetera.

What we've been hearing is, there's not enough stock to buy. Even from the people that'd call us and want to engage in a conversation, that's the first thing out of their mouth, how can we get some stock? We're obviously not selling any and they have been unhappy, I guess, is the right word with what they would be able to get out there in the open market. So...

And, one step further, how they would sell, when they would decide to sell.

Right. So, it's unclear what going to a conference is going to accomplish if that problem doesn't go away. And, the thing that I've been looking at and I've been looking at some of these conferences, we are so far on one end of the size range, even though these are MicroCap conferences. There are companies in there, hundreds of million – billion dollars in valuation, we're just not going to get any airtime there.

Right. So, just some feedback for the board on that, how these guys are going to buy it is they would pay a fair price, because obviously, our stock is so undervalued. They pay a fair price, shares emerge. Just like you got a nice block from Fidelity, same thing happens there. In terms of how someone would sell it, I do think, continuing to be a buyer of shares with your 10b5 plan does add to the stock's liquidity more than it drains the liquidity. And secondly, by having actually a consistent and active IR function or activity that does add to a company's share liquidity.

So, part of the – we'll call it the concern some shareholders might have in coming in to buy your shares would be alleviated if indeed they felt comfortable that you were just having a regular program a little bit above and beyond your quarterly calls, which I do appreciate to articulate your story. I guess, they would like to know that you're out telling your story to others, if they're going to go in and buy your shares, because again adding to the liquidity concerns.

So, those are just some feedback to give to the board to consider. There are some smaller or we'll call it NanoCap conferences. Joe that might be again available to you for talking and you should talk, you guys pay Nasdaq a bunch of money. They do offer some IR services that might be able to do, like a virtual conference for you, things like that, so those are just some ideas. But, I appreciate you discussing this and making it part of your board agenda each quarter and perhaps market professionals that you have or would put on your board might provide you some better insight on that. I don't have any other questions, guys.

Okay, thanks, Andrew. We will of course bring that up again at the meeting, but you'll also – the board members are on the call now. So, they'll hear exactly what you said.

Yeah. Well, that's why I'm kind of – I thank you for allowing me the chance to say that, because I knew some would be either listening in or reading the transcripts.

Right. Absolutely. Okay. Thank you, Andrew.

Thank you.

Any other questions, operator? [Operator Instructions]

And I show no further questions at this time.

Okay. Thank you all for spending time with us today on the call. And, we look forward to speaking to you with the Q1 results in May. Have a nice day, everybody.

Once again, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation.