Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Jr., Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer
Joseph A. Molino, Jr. — Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the P&F Industries 2019 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries' 2019 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates, and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties including but not limited to: risks associated with health crises, including epidemics and pandemics; exposure to fluctuations in energy prices; debt and debt service requirements; borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility; disruption in the global capital and credit markets; the strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad; risks associated with sourcing from overseas; importation delays; risks associated with Brexit, customer concentration; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill; unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns; market acceptance of products; competition; price reductions; interest rates; litigation and insurance; retention of key personnel; acquisition of businesses; regulatory environment; the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty; and information technology systems failures and attacks; and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including among others as described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

And with that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Thank you so much, Rich, and good morning, everybody. And thank you for joining us today under these incredibly challenging and once in a lifetime conditions that we're all facing right now. I wish you all well and continued good health. I thank you all for joining us this morning. I just hope everyone is safe.

I will begin today's call with a brief summary of our 2019 results and how this data compares to 2018. However, I direct you to our press release from earlier today for more information. This morning's release presented P&F's balance sheet, statement of income, per share data, along with most of what will be our management's discussion and analysis.

I wish to emphasize that the purpose of today's call, as always, is intended to discuss and review only the company's results for the year ended December 31, 2019 and how we are currently approaching the COVID-19 pandemic. As such, I ask that you please confine your questions to those topics at hand. After my brief summary, I will ask Joe Molino to briefly review his cash flow information and provide an update on any key events affecting the company, after which we will move to our usual Q&A session.

The company's 2019 consolidated revenue was $58,674,000 compared to $64,995,000 in 2018. As discussed in the company's press release published earlier today, the most significant factor to the revenue decline was the reduction in retail revenue, which was primarily due to our shipping in the third quarter of 2018, the relevant inventory of a then, new and refreshed line of pneumatic air tools to The Home Depot with no similar type of orders repeating in 2019.

I should point out that it has been our experience that The Home Depot revises its product offerings once every several years and that's what happened in 2018. The release earlier today discussed the fluctuations in Florida Pneumatic's other lines of business.

Revenues at Hy-Tech increased slightly more than $1 million or 7.3% this year over the corresponding year in 2018. This improvement occurred in its OEM business, being partially offset by a decline in our ATP sales. The company's 2019 gross margin was 35.7%, the same as reported in 2018.

Comparing this year to the prior year, Florida Pneumatic's gross margin increased 2.7 percentage points to 39.3%. This net increase was due primarily to a change in marketing strategy for our aircraft brand and stronger gross margins at Jiffy. However, Hy-Tech's gross margin reflects a decline from 32.5% to 25.5% or 7 percentage points.

This decline was driven by under-absorption of manufacturing overhead, higher direct labor and material costs, weaker mix of products and customers, and a slight increase in charges for obsolete/slow-moving inventory, among other factors. I wish to point out that we have taken a number of strategic moves that we believe will address these issues going forward, such as sourcing several component parts from overseas, raw material cost reductions, improved manufacturing and price increases.

Our selling and G&A expenses for 2019 and 2018 were $21,869,000 and $21,705,000, respectively. And that increase was driven primarily by increases in professional fees due in part to the acquisition of our two gear businesses in October of last year, an expansion of internal controls and non-cash impairment charges, most of which was due to the write-down of right-of-use assets resulting from vacating a facility in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania to move into our newer, larger manufacturing facility in the same town.

These increases were partially offset by decreases in compensation, both cash and non-cash, and variable expenses. Our interest expense during 2019 was $198,000 compared to $223,000 incurred in 2018. This decline was due to lower amortization of debt issue cost, partially offset by increased interest resulting from increased short-term borrowings.

And lastly in June of 2019, we completed the sale to an unrelated third party of real property located in Jupiter, Florida, in which Florida Pneumatic conducts its principal business. The gross selling price was [ph] $9.2 million (00:06:53). After broker fees and other expenses relating to this sale, we received approximately $8.7 million and recorded a gain of approximately $7.8 million.

Taking all of the above into consideration, we are reporting full-year income before income taxes of $6,708,000 compared to $1,109,000 in 2018. On an after-tax basis, we are reporting net income of $4,911,000 compared to $856,000 in the prior year. We are reporting 2019 basic earnings per share of $1.53 compared to $0.24 in 2018. Diluted earnings per share for 2019 is $1.51 compared to $0.23. As of March 2020, there were 3,143,810 common shares outstanding. As again, as a reminder, I refer you to this morning's press release for additional information.

Now, Joe, I'll give you the rest of the call. Go ahead.

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during 2019 were $1,524,000 compared to $1,878,000 during 2018. Significant non-cash items affecting 2019 cash flows were depreciation and amortization of $1,566,000; amortization of other intangible assets of $703,000; amortization of operating leased assets of $582,000; amortization of consideration payable to a customer of $270,000; stock-based and restricted stock-based compensation of $158,000; and deferred income taxes of $409,000.

Additionally, significant components that impacted cash used in operating activities during 2019 were: increase in inventories of $1,714,000; increase of $339,000 in prepaid and other current assets; a decrease in accounts receivable of $529,000; a decrease of $318,000 in accrued compensation and benefits. Accounts payable and accrued other liabilities in aggregate decreased by $1,035,000 and operating lease liabilities decreased by $597,000.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. At this time, everybody, I'd like to briefly discuss how P&F is addressing the COVID-19 pandemic. As you know, during 2019, driven by skyrocketing tariffs, we began sourcing many of the tools and parts that were being manufactured in China to other quality manufacturing facilities in other countries. Despite this beneficial action, the coronavirus will have some impact on our supply chain. At this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the duration of this potential business disruption and the related financial impact on our company. It's far too early for that.

We take the health and well-being of our employees, customers, and vendors very seriously at all locations. We follow CDC and WHO guidelines. I'm sure you are aware, several states, including New York, the location of P&F's corporate headquarters, have directed all nonessential businesses to close. Additionally, Pennsylvania and Nevada have severely restricted business activities. However, our businesses in those states are considered essential and, therefore, we are remaining open as of now.

Currently, the state of Florida has not imposed any business restrictions as of yet. So, as such, many of P&F's employees across the country have been working remotely. I remain hopeful that this pandemic will soon be controlled. But we heard just this morning that President Trump is now extending the stay-at-home till April 30.

I'm going to just mention one other thing and I'll end our report today. We are all working remotely so we are on this call. So every question that's answered will start with me, and I will either answer it or I will hand it over to Joe. So you'll have to just pause [ph] in the awkwardness and (00:11:01) the time involved here, so I appreciate your understanding.

That's the end of our report today and I'd be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll now take our first question from [ph] Henri Debrew (00:11:31) who's a private investor. Please go ahead. Your line...

Yes. Good morning and thank you. The first thing I'd like to say is I appreciate the constructive comment that you have in your press release regarding the COVID-19. I thought it was quite constructive. I have three questions, if the time allows me. One relates to Home Depot. What was the product that was sold to them in 2018 that significantly did not repeat in 2019?

Yeah, Henri, there's nothing specific like that. In 2018, they started from a zero inventory base. When they changed their line, they got rid of all their old inventory, and now we had to replenish their whole inventory base with new tools, new and improved tools.

So there's no one specific tool that caused any decline. It's just that that was an opening order in 2018 for the new product line, and in 2019, there's no redoing of that. It's already there. So we went into an empty channel and that's why you had the one-time big increase in 2018.

Joe, you want to add anything to that?

No. I think that's exactly – I couldn't – there's nothing to add. That's exactly what went on.

All right. Well, can we have the next question?

Can I continue with Home Depot for a second?

Sure. Sure.

It's at a freeze of SKUs that you sell.

Is there a lot – I'm sorry.

Is it multiple stock keeping units?

Oh, sure. Of course, we have several SKUs. Yeah, I'm not quite sure how many, but more than two.

What were your sales to Home Depot in 2019?

Joe?

I'm going to say around $12 million [indiscernible] (00:13:37).

And what is...

And it was around – if I'm correct, it was about $16 million the year before. And as I said, it's the one-time replenishment of starting over with new product.

Okay.

New and improved product.

And...

There's nothing more to that.

How are those products selling in the most recent period?

They're selling as predicted without any issue.

Okay, I'm going to go to my next question. Do you and have you sold directly to Boeing?

Joe? And the answer's yes but, Joe, you can fill in more directly.

Yeah. We sell both directly to Boeing and indirectly Boeing through consolidators but we do it both ways.

And for the sale of those products, is there any problem with outstanding receivables?

Not at this time.

No, not at this time.

Okay. And my last question relates to internal control relating to what you said in your press release and the recent amendments for small companies to SOX 404(b). I think you said in your press release you spent somewhere of about $100,000 for covenants relating to internal controls. Could you expand upon what had to be done?

Yeah. Joe, go ahead.

Sure. Just so you're aware, we have work that's done every year. Several times a year, we work with an outside firm to do an internal control evaluation, some years we do more than others. What we do is we take – we identify particular areas that we have reason to dig in a little deeper. We want to understand it a little better. If it's not something we typically do, the regular auditors don't do that work.

So, periodically, whether it be related to changes in personnel or changes in procedures, last year changes in the ERP system, we may do a deeper dive and that's what we did. That's what we did last year. We did a deeper dive. And that's not something that should continue but, periodically, we go a little deeper. It's not that we never do it. We always do it. But last year, we did a much, much deeper dive than usual.

Okay. My last part of the internal control question here, I believe earlier this month, the SEC for small companies, as they define it, relaxed the requirement for auditor attestation of internal controls. You're aware of such, right?

Yes.

I am not – go ahead, Richard.

I'm not aware of that actually. Joe?

I'm not aware specifically what you're talking about. I don't know of a change in their attestation that I've been made aware of.

Or about 4(b).

I'm sorry, say it again.

I don't believe that affects us though.

Oh yeah. It does not affect us. Yeah.

It does not affect us.

There's new guidance, but it doesn't affect us.

All right. Okay, okay.

Next question, Henri.

The revenue...

Yeah, next question.

The revenue threshold -- okay. If I have something else...

Sorry?

...I will get back.

No, no. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead.

No. No. My reading of 404(b) is that the threshold for revenue, it seems to me that you are a low revenue company but I will read it.

Our lawyers tell us that 404(b) does not affect our company.

Okay. Okay.

Okay?

Thank you.

Thank you.

We will now take our next question from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Thank you. I think you guys and, Henri, should talk offline because I think the new SEC rules might beneficially impact the company's costs, although potentially reduce some of the internal control requirements that us shareholders often like to see.

But moving to a question, taking your fiscal year-end disclosure from the press release as there isn't yet a 10-K that preceded this conference call and comparing with what we have for your nine months ended September, can you explain the sizable increase in SG&A from Q3 and I guess somewhat from prior years' Q4 levels? This is the quarterly SG&A comparisons. In particular, would you quantify and explain what items you feel are non-recurring charges like the costs expensed in the Blaz-Man acquisition?

Sure. Joe, go ahead.

Right. So, this is SG&A you're talking about. So there'd be a number of things in there. We would have some follow-on costs related to the acquisition and obviously that's not recurring. The prior caller's question regarding internal controls, the bulk of that expense are in the Q4.

In addition to that, we had transition expenses related to closing down the facilities in the Chicago area. When we acquired the two Chicago businesses, they were working out of seven facilities. Our plan had been to contract that to one and then eventually zero. We accelerated that program in Q4 and actually a little bit into Q1. So that's in there.

And then finally, there was a fairly material write-down of some equipment, some equipment that we decided to – well, it was obsoleted by coming up with better approaches to manufacturing some products. So that was also in there. So, there's four items in there, I would say just about all of them are non-recurring items.

And quantifying those altogether...

I don't have that. I mean I don't have that in front of me. I can get back to you with that. I can put that together but off the top of my head, I don't have that information.

All right. Well, the number that you mentioned for the Blaz-Man acquisition was a sizable number, almost $400,000, but that was like an October acquisition, so was most of that in Q3 or most of that in Q4?

It was both, it was both. I couldn't say which is – I think there's probably about even in both.

All right. [indiscernible]

(00:21:00)

I'd like to understand the recurring SG&A...

I understand.

It sounds like it didn't increase all that much. It maybe even potentially declined. And then you mentioned in your answer a sizable write-off of some equipment.

Nor write-off just so you're clear. It's with Hy-Tech. It's an equipment that we have, which we still have, it still functions but we have other equipment that is more efficient. And we've gotten other equipment that's more efficient, so while the equipment still has value, we decided to reduce its value on the books, not to zero but to reduce it to something that's more in line with factual value.

And that went through SG&A?

Yes, it did.

Okay. And then you accelerated some of the location consolidation of Blaz-Man. Is Blaz-Man now – I want to say now – as of the end of December, how many facilities were you down to?

At the end of December, I believe we were down to two.

Okay. And where are you now?

We are now down to – we're actually down – as of today, we're down to zero in Chicago, which – we're still leasing the facility but we are no longer operating out of it. And that lease runs through September. We're negotiating with the landlord to possibly get a little break on the remaining rent as we plan to be completely out of there, being all cleaned up, remaining inventory or some stragglers on equipment, pull that out. But effectively, production is now all in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania.

Okay. Well, that's excellent. The...

Yeah, it was good news.

I guess if you could have leased – if the landlord could lease it quicker, absent the COVID thing, probably it's a lot easier, too.

Well, that was our...

And, Andrew, I'll just mention one other thing, the moving of the facilities from – over several plants in Chicago into one in Punxsutawney was scheduled to be done, as you said, over a period of time here over the next six months. So we basically have finished now. So all those expenses that were going to be – and, Joe, you can correct me if I'm mistaken, but all those expenses that were going to be spread out over the next couple of months, several months while we are moving in are all going to be basically loaded into January, a little bit of February because we moved in. We did all this extensively and cut them all and did it all ahead of time. So that's the bad news, but the good news is we're into one place now when everything – and we should be moving forward in a good way. Is that a fair way to say that?

It sounds like the acquisition then will be accretive earlier than you had projected then as well.

Yes, I would think that would be correct. Wouldn't that be correct, Joe?

Yeah, absolutely yes.

Yes, that's [ph] absolutely correct (00:24:10).

While we're on Blaz-Man and then I'll back out into the queue, I do have more questions. But while we're on Blaz-Man, a few questions if I could. Can you elaborate a bit on the strategic benefits of the acquisition? In particular, in your press release, you said the acquisition opens you up to broader ranges of industries. What are some of those new industries and what sort of add-on selling might you be able to do with P&F's previous tool offerings into these new industries and new customers and, in particular, in light of the current circumstances, are any of these industries ones that are essential in the current pandemic, such as healthcare?

Yeah. Joe, go ahead. You can answer this. It's easier for you.

Yeah. Yeah, certainly, we are active in healthcare. We're active in transportation. We're active in food production. We're active in power generation, in addition to just sort of oil and gas exploration. So, all of those are considered essential businesses. We don't say it in the press release, but we have confirmed that our Pennsylvania and Nevada operations and Florida – well, Florida doesn't have any strict regulations at the moment, but some manufacturing business have been closed in Pennsylvania and Nevada. We remain open as we qualify as essential or critical.

Going back to your original question about the gears, that is now rebranded our power transmission group and power transmission would essentially be anything with a motor and a gear set in it, which really is almost any industry you could think of, just depending on what you're talking about. So I guess my point is that while we had a pretty good set of industries we were looking at before with our gear business, now it's even a broader set.

With the gears and motors, the things that Blaz-Man could help reverse-engineer and that was one of the expertise that you acquired, would those be mechanisms that one would find in ventilators?

I'm not that familiar with the ventilator. My guess is it's probably got some plastic gears in it, which isn't something we really do. But we have not really looked into that.

Okay. I mean because it just seems like everyone's trying to reverse-engineer and do whatever they can to...

Yeah. Well, I would say – yeah, I agree. I would say that our gear-making ability is not one that's conducive to high volume. It's just not our business. Most high volume gears come out of Asia.

Right, okay. The press release didn't make any mention now and in the past year of a multiple paid for Blaz-Man in terms of revenue or net income or cash flows or gross profit. Is there any sort of detail you can give us – information on the revenues, earnings, again cash flows of the businesses that what they were generating to have a better idea of what we purchased for the $3.5 million?

I mean, I was...

Go ahead, Joe.

Yeah, I'm sorry, Richard. Without getting into the specifics, we probably played slightly more than market for the actual cash flows that the companies were generating, but our effective multiple is probably half of what you would expect to pay, depending on the industry you're in. So we think the return is going to be tremendous on the dollars spent.

And it actually accelerated because you put everything into Pennsylvania already?

Correct.

Yes. Okay. But having said that...

Andrew, just so you're clear, with getting it started, there's learning curves. So it's going to be better than we expected it to be for this year, if all is well under current conditions. But next year, we would expect it to be much better than that because we'll be – already have momentum in moving forward.

And we're moving from a standstill in our new facility and getting started. So there were some learning curves with that and still are some, but not much. But we would expect that it will be very good this year, better than we anticipated, if all things being equal with the corona and everything else in the world, and next year 2021 would be that much better. So just the other perspective. [indiscernible]

(00:29:11)

I have other questions, but I want to back out in the queue in case Henri or anyone else have questions, but please come back to me.

Good. Sure. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

There is no other question. So we're going to take Andrew Shapiro.

Thank you. So I'm assuming again, once the dust settles, which is going to be a while, there may be some readjustments to valuation opportunities in terms of acquisitions. I wanted to ask a few questions, if I could, about the company's balance sheet shifts. Again, there isn't a 10-K that preceded this call, so a few questions about the shifts in your balance sheet liabilities, if you can, just so I can understand our purchasing power for acquisitions because I think they may come on the radar. There was an elimination of contingent consideration owed. Is that off of Jiffy or something else and is it temporary or a permanent final measurement?

Joe, go ahead.

It's Jiffy.

And is that temporary or is that the permanent final measurement?

That's it. It's done.

Okay.

We made the final payment – actually final and only payment last July 1, I believe.

Okay. And then there was noticeably a sizable drop in the accounts payable and the accrued expenses. I think your 10-K may break out the detail, but again, it's not available. But is there anything in particular to call out or explain on this because it didn't seem necessarily seasonal.

What period are you comparing?

I'm comparing the December balance sheet to the September one. So it's just the Q4 cash flows that went and now paid down a bunch of these things.

Yeah, I would say a couple of things. The accounts payable on foreign payables for Florida Pneumatic tend to be kind of chunky, and that could mean we move by $1 million depending on what day of the month it is. And second, if you're comparing other accrued expenses, depending on the tax position at the end of December and the tax position at the end of September, that can move in and lastly, there would be a difference between where bonuses are being accrued between those two periods. So three things are moving around...

Okay.

...but there's no trend, there's no operational reason why those numbers would move.

Okay, and it looks like you drew on the long-term line of credit in addition to your seasonal increase on your – well, your short-term borrowing increase was Blaz-Man, and then...

Yeah.

...that drew on the long-term line, is that a seasonal draw or anything in particular?

I'm not sure what you mean by drew on the long-term line.

Well, it looks like the long-term debt line went up from a zero, which we got paid off with the sale leaseback and all to a $3 million draw during the fourth quarter?

On the long term? I'm not aware of a long-term draw. We did – just so you're clear, in 2019, the new lease of guidance went into effect. So, if you're just looking at December 31 of 2018, beginning January of 2019, the ASC 842, which is the new lease guidance, went into effect where you were to put an asset on the balance sheet and liabilities to the asset section and you would have added...

Right, right. So it would be matching and maybe that's what it is. Again, I don't have the 10-K detail, and we'll follow up with you offline on that. Let's move into some questions I got on Hy-Tech, if I could. So, with the sizable gains in the OEM in Engineered Solutions, are there any particular areas, industries or products worthy of any callout and elaboration at this time?

Go ahead, Joe.

Nothing – yeah, I wouldn't say anything other than what we've discussed the prior calls. Nothing new yet. I think as we get into the power transmission market in much more detail and depth, and our salespeople start getting out there and making calls that will probably change but probably not. I don't think we'll have much to say for a couple of quarters.

Okay.

What would you say?

Now, you previously announced a new line of ATP MAGNUM FORCE Industrial Air Impact Tools. Can you give a little bit more information now as to the success you've had so far? And can you kind of reconcile this product line and the comments from your press release of overall marketplace declines for pneumatic tools and replacement parts in the ATP area?

Yeah. Well, MAGNUM is getting good response in the marketplace. But it's a small part of the overall. And the real essential thing – I'll let Joe clarify it further, but the real issue is that oil is now in the $25 range. And so, there's no drilling and our ATP tools essentially go to that market. So it's that market, as you've read I'm sure everywhere, is basically shut down at this point. So we're getting orders, but not anywhere near what we would hope to get. So, Joe, you can answer that?

Yeah, I would agree completely. We greased up the line, we updated the tech in our tools, but it isn't going to change the long-term trend of that business being a, one, that we don't emphasize anymore – not anymore, not as much because we've got much better opportunities elsewhere. And, two, with the oil and gas in the low to mid-20s, there's just not a lot of production. And these tools definitely are used a great deal in oil and gas exploration.

Okay. So, in the event oil and gas came back, it's not that pneumatic technology or pneumatic tools are being replaced themselves by anything else that's in...

That's correct.

... [indiscernible] (00:36:19) the industry. Okay, just want to get cleared up. Now, taking your limited fiscal year-end segment disclosure, and again unfortunately having to compare it with what we have for your nine months ended September, and we have asked in the past if you guys in your fourth quarter of your fiscal year-end could also provide a fourth quarter breakout, it would be helpful. But comparing to what we have for your nine months, we could come up with some figures for your fourth quarter performance.

And I'd like to get a better handle on your sizable decline in gross margin at Hy-Tech from the third quarter and even prior year's fourth quarter performance levels. And if you could quantify and explain what items you feel are non-recurring charges that went through that calculation on gross profit margin for us that'd be helpful.

Joe?

Yes. So I would say three main areas are driving the drop in margin at Hy-Tech in Q4. We had a sizable increase in the inventory reserve, again relating to these inventories in what I'll call the old oil and gas legacy business. We did have a lot of inventory built up over the years. And as that business has fallen off, while we still have movement on that product given the way we create inventory reserves – as the movement slows and the reserves go up.

Second, it was just not a very good mix in Q4 at Hy-Tech, particularly [ph] a lousy (00:38:13) mix; and then lastly, a tremendous drop in hours in November and December, just not a lot of production required. While we had backlog, a lot of that product wasn't due to ship until Q1. So, without hours, you don't absorb the overhead. It's just arithmetic. So I would say, in terms of the mix and the hours – but really all three of these were kind of – I don't expect Q1 to share all of these trends. But the coronavirus is a bit of a wild card, but I would say Q4 is a bit of an outlier for those three things.

So Hy-Tech prior to this though had been humming back. It had been back humming along, where overhead absorption was, I guess, somewhat at full tilt again and in the fourth quarter it dropped off.

Yeah. So what was happening is we have lots of blanket orders from key customers, large customers and then get orders every day for things that we can build relatively quickly and get out the door. Those orders dried out in November and December and that chews up a lot of hours in the plant. So without those, we did our best to pull in some orders and satisfied some larger customers early, but what I'll call sort of the bread and butter basic orders, and again mostly the legacy business dried up dramatically. So that reduced a lot of hours.

Okay. And then in terms of the inventory reserve amount, can you quantify that because arguably that's somewhat non-recurring?

Yeah. I mean this is a complete guess – not a complete guess but I'm going to say it's certainly low six figures.

Okay.

Certainly, it's over $100,000. I don't think it's $200,000, but...

Right. Well, that's a lot of margin points. So that's...

Yeah, for the quarter it is, it definitely is.

Yeah, okay. Now there's a reference to vacating a facility in Pennsylvania. Was there more than one facility or it's a move of the only facility?

Yeah, it was a move of the only facility. The gear business was in one facility in Punxsutawney, something like 12,000, 13,000 square feet and simultaneously with the acquisition of the two gear businesses, we've signed a lease for a larger facility that led us out of town and then initially moved our original gear business into there and then, as we've said, accelerated the transition of the Chicago businesses into there in November, December, January, February.

So then is Hy-Tech in two facilities in Punxsutawney then because everything [ph] is like gears or isn't (00:41:20)...

We've vacated the other Punxsutawney facility. We still have a lease and again, we're working with that landlord to try to do something there, but we're out of that facility. So we've got the main facility in Cranberry, which is everything, but gears and then we have all the gear stuff in Punxsutawney, one location now.

Okay. Moving into Florida Pneumatic, it's my understanding that Home Depots are considered essential and they're up and running and you're then selling through and doing whatever you're doing through them. Is that right?

Yeah, yeah.

Yeah. Okay. And has your visibility improved in terms of their sell-through and stocking needs at all? Or are you still kind of running blind as to their order rates and things like that in the sell-through?

We generally never get a vision there. We just never get that from them or from Amazon or anybody like that. And especially in these times now, they're looking to keep their head above water. But even before this, they didn't ever give us visibility. But I can tell you that so far this year, surprisingly, Home Depot is meeting our budgets as of now.

Okay. And then has your business via Amazon stepped up as a result of people or businesses more homeward bound?

No, because Amazon, if you read the newspapers, Amazon made a policy decision, I guess two weeks ago now, that they are not ordering or really putting priority on anything other than essential items that they sell. So they are holding back presently right now, but continuing – I believe, Joe, they said they were going to start up again in three weeks. Is that what they had said originally?

For some reason – yes, I remember April 6, there's something around that date is when they would begin accepting orders again from us or may – placing orders, I guess I should say.

Placing orders, placing orders you mean.

Right. And we did a...

That's been on the news, Andrew.

Yeah. And how long has been the – how long have they been on hold? Is it a few weeks?

This has been two weeks, yeah. This is not a [indiscernible] (00:43:54). Who knows? [indiscernible]

(00:43:59)

A few weeks till March and then they'll have some in April.

Hopefully, if they keep to their plan, yes.

Right. And presumably they've taken their inventory down as a result and so we'll have some...

That would be correct.

Okay.

That's what we would be thinking. That's what we've been thinking but, of course, you never know, but that's what we are thinking and expecting.

Okay. And you answered Henri's questions about how the new product lines performed and all of that. And so moving on to the aerospace side, we talked about this on the last quarter how many of your tools are, we'll call it, just like general tools and part of either Boeing's or Boeing suppliers' general inventory levels. And for everyone to get their working capital down to levels they found appropriate because of their lower rate of business, they were adjusting their inventory which means they weren't ordering from us. Have you seen the order rates pick up and start kind of having flow-through, so to speak in terms of like the supply chain is now running through and they need some replenishment of whatever their inventory is as they use or lose tools?

Go ahead, Joe. You can answer that.

I'm not sure I'm following the question. And in terms of aerospace in general, the Boeing orders are very light and that is our largest aerospace customer. We're doing okay in military, but we have very weak order flow from Boeing right now. I don't know if that answers your question.

And especially now that they closed their Washington facility last week. You know that, Andrew?

Right. Yeah, yeah. They had to close it, totally clean it or do whatever and such things.

Right.

And when the 737 MAX line reopens and comes up, do you anticipate then there would be a need and a surge in replenishing the tool supplies?

That's our hope and that's our anticipation but...

You have no visibility – you have no see-through or visibility to their inventory levels on the tools side?

No. They're another one of those companies that doesn't really ever give a vendor that information, unfortunately.

Okay. And then on the last couple of calls, you spoke of concrete initiatives beginning to marry up Florida Pneumatic, Jiffy and Hy-Tech's resources such as pneumatic. To go after the aerospace market in a bigger way, but with the long lead times in aerospace, it could be several quarters before you saw any results. I mean this is a question I've kind of asked throughout all of 2019.

So here in March, I'm thinking they may still be – there's a COVID cloud perhaps. Certainly, the airlines are not utilizing aircraft as much. Is there any further development on your initiatives, and any signs of traction or success yet, either that had occurred this last quarter pre-COVID or your thoughts on the upcoming year with your efforts?

We were – I mean, Joe, you can add to it, but we were getting very close to getting some good lines from Airbus and all that. But now with everything going on, I'd lost track in the last two weeks frankly. Joe, do you have anything more on that?

As I was alluding to on the aerospace side, for the military customers, it appears that they have accepted our offering in, I'll call it, the alternative fastening system that is common for building jets. So there are kind of three – if you look at jet production and using intelligent fastening systems, there's really three ways to go.

There's two proprietary ways. One is called a Hi-Lok system, which I think we've discussed before where the fastener has this collar that snaps off when the fastener hits fork so that the fastener is exactly at the torque the engineer designed for that, whatever you're putting together there, whether it's the fuselage or something internally.

There's an alternative system called an Eddie-Bolt, which was patented until last April, came off patent. We were in development on that. And in the fourth quarter and now into Q1, several major military jet manufacturers have begun accepting that product. They have signed off on our approach and we're pretty excited about that.

And then the last approach is where the intelligence is not in the fastener but you put the intelligence in the tool so you would have what's called a torque-controlled tool where the tool itself knows exactly how much to tighten the fastener. That is something we have in development. So there's nothing to say about it yet but, eventually, we expect to be a force in all three approaches. And when we bought Jiffy, it was just one. So I don't have much more to say other than that. I hope that answers your question.

Now, the progress you had made with Airbus whether it's certifications or other things, does this give you the view that once things normalize in terms of demand for airframes, etcetera, that you – it would not be long before you could be having basically a major new customer in the form of Airbus or Airbus suppliers come on board for us.

Andrew, not to – I don't think we could possibly answer that question because who knows what the new normal is going to be? But we're hopeful that that would be the case, but I wouldn't even want to suggest that we could – to say yes to that at this moment.

Well, what I'm trying to get is have you crossed over certain milestones or certification requirements that you were going to have to go through?

We've gone through some and I would have expected that we would have had another one or two when they were getting to do it now. But we didn't hear back as all hell broke loose. Joe, could you add anything to that?

Yeah. I don't really have much more to add. Richard's absolutely right. They were testing some tools. They were in process. We had other tools on the way to them that literally got to our folks in Europe and then that's where they are. They aren't even to Airbus. So we just have learned – we hit the pause button there. They hit the pause button, I should say.

Right. But if you've gotten the certain certifications, presumably you don't need to get them again.

No, absolutely. No, no, I agree. I don't [indiscernible] (00:51:55).

Yeah. No, that's I'm trying to get at.

We're expecting that we can pick up where we left off when the time comes. Yes.

Okay. And with the limited debt, as we talked about and you mentioned that that's not drawing on the credit lines and all that, and the stock at enormous discount from the company's net book value which is around $15 a share and your net tangible book value is near $11 a share. Now that your quiet period is about to end and all of that, where does the board and management lean to with respect to future capital allocation and, I guess, specifically reinstating the ability to be doing stock buybacks?

Again, Andrew, we spoke about this. We had a board meeting just a few weeks ago now and the board has spent a fair amount of time talking about this. And as I'm sure you're aware, I know you're aware, but anybody else on this call will just tell you that we bought back over 700,000 shares over the past 2.5 years, which show the – obviously we agree that there's a value on repurchasing shares.

However, as you know, there are many other different factors that go into this analysis, including at this point now, coronavirus and cash flows for the company and all that other kind of stuff. So when we convene after our annual meeting, we will examine it again. But as of now, there was no appetite to do anything until we see where the company sits and where we are cash-wise and everything else. So we'll...

Right.

...we'll keep you posted on that as always.

That and the current circumstances, I can certainly appreciate, but it's been the company's practice in the past only to consider such matters at regularly scheduled quarterly visits of the board rather than having something pre-authorized that, of course, you would not or should not exercise discretion on until there is visibility and comfort with the company's cash flows and the impact of economic headwinds as well as disclosures, yeah, but let's call it the virus, okay.

Right.

But if you guys restrict your decision-making on this to the quarterly gatherings, it just seems like that the opportunities get missed rather than providing pre-authorization to management of the execution, for the board to provide the pre-authorization, so that when the time is right or you guys establish a process of telephonically convening in order to do that, it just seems like the opportunity is even more compelling, absent the impacts from the virus, that the opportunity is more compelling than where you were accretively acquiring shares before.

Well, I don't know where you got the – under the impression that we only meet quarterly to discuss things. We get together whenever we deem the need to, and we often meet in between meetings and have telephonic calls and talk about anything. Having said that, the annual meeting is six weeks away and with everything going on in the world right now, I don't believe that there's going to be any compelling reason for us to discuss this until that time. We understand your position.

No, I would agree... [indiscernible]

(00:55:55)

Yeah, yeah. And we certainly share your feelings about it, but there are other things that sometimes come into it that perhaps you're not so involved with or understand obviously. No big deal, no big pending things, but we will absolutely examine it, as we always do, in between meetings. But this one is six or eight, seven weeks away. So unless something dramatically changes...

And I hope you and the rest of the – and I hope you and the rest of the board understand all the different rationale I put in in terms of...

Of course.

...trying to clarify things.

Of course, we do.

The 13D...

Of course, we do.

...amendment. Now in light of the circumstances, will your annual meeting this year be conducted with a hybrid and virtual componentry for shareholders to participate?

We're in the process of exploring how we will hold our annual meeting right now. And our proxy statement will provide all that information when it comes out. But we're not even in position to talk about it yet, but we'll let you know as soon as we know.

All right.

But the meeting is generally held in the Wednesday before the Memorial Day weekend, as I'm sure you know, of course. That would be the...

Yes. And it's usually been the travel – yeah, it's usually been a travel conflict, but it's certainly a travel conflict this year.

Right. Yes, for sure, for sure for everybody. So, yes, we will let you know with everybody.

Okay. Well, I mean it's just something a lot of companies have adopted, although I wouldn't want it to be adopted on a permanent basis to be virtual only. It's better to be hybrid now. Yeah, yeah, personal attendance along with virtual.

Right.

Okay. Thank you very much. I'll back out in the queue.

Thank you, Andrew. And stay well.

You, too.

We have another question coming from [indiscernible] (00:57:54). Please go ahead. Your line is...

Hi, guys. Thank you. I'm not all that familiar with the story. I didn't exactly understand you, EBITDA, is that – and I got on to the call late, so my apologies. I mean I figured you did about $9 million in EBITDA, does that include the gain from the land sale or...

Yes. Yes. It was even in the press release. If you read the press release, you'll see that, yes.

I did read the press release. I just didn't know if you excluded it from the EBITDA. So that's not an adjusted EBITDA?

Joe, am I right? That's in the EBITDA.

It's in the EBITDA number, yes.

Yeah.

Okay. So ex-ing that out, you did like $1 million or $2 million in EBITDA for the year. Is that sort of right?

Yeah. The gain on the sale is about $7.8 million.

Right. And I think it was – I don't have it in front of me now but you were about $9 million something should be – I think if I read that correctly about $9 million something?

I don't have that in front of me. But you would just subtract the $7.8 million and you get to the adjusted if you want to call it that EBITDA.

Right. Okay. And what was the one-time hit from – what was the sort of one-time, whatever you want to call it, the one-time, not one-time from the inventory reserves?

I don't know if you were listening on the earlier call. You know as our legacy business owes, large impact business degrades the way we calculate our inventory reserves requires that even if there's some movement to beef up the reserves and the movement in the fourth quarter was particularly weak and required an additional reserve. And as I've said to Andrew earlier, that was a six figure number in the quarter.

And ballpark, what was it for the year with any sort of random numbers, so we can get a sense.

It's probably $0.25 million for the year roughly, okay.

So, were there any other one-time – significant, let's say $500,000 or $1 million that impacted the – let's just stick with EBITDA – was there any other?

No, no, and $0.5 million, as we said earlier, the acquisition expenses are in SG&A that is not an inconsequential number. The transitional expenses after the acquisition are in those numbers. We also said that the bulk of the internal control with the additional internal control review that we did are also on that in the fourth quarter. So those are all, I would say, non-recurring.

Okay. You guys did not break out in this release, as best I can tell, you guys did not break out the fourth quarter and you did not specifically sort of isolate the operating contributions from the two acquisitions. Is that correct?

And I don't know that we're going to do that. Having said that, when you get – if you take a look at the 10-K when it comes out, there is a footnote that's required where we do a pro forma as if the acquisition took place on January 1, 2018. So it is a required disclosure and there's certain ways you go about it. But you can glean from that some information around the incremental impact of the acquisition.

When do you guys expect to file the 10-K?

Today.

Today.

Later today.

Okay. Is today your due date?

Yeah. Yes, it is.

Today is the due date. Okay. Got you. Okay. All righty. Very good. Thank you and good luck and safe and healthy. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Okay. Bye-bye.

We have another question from [ph] Kenneth Fell of Fell Capital Management (01:02:31). Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking my call. I just wanted to go back on the acquisition questions. And I was wondering if the company is still actively looking for tuck-ins or potential major acquisitions out there?

At this point, we are not looking because right now we're focusing on the businesses and we're focusing on generating the new companies that we just put in. But we always have our eyes open. But we're not actively pursuing other acquisitions, but momentarily as soon as world quiets down and this – our gears acquisition is running the way we want it to, then we will be right back in that market, the answer is yes.

Okay. Well, great. Appreciate that. That's all I have and thanks for that and stay safe, guys.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

There is no further question at this time, sir.

Okay. Thank you, everybody, for your call today and we all wish you all and all of us good health and safety, and we look forward to speaking to you at our next conference call next quarter. Thank you all and have a good day. Stay well.

Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude today's conference call. Thank you very much for your participation. You may now disconnect.