Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino, Jr. — Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the P&F Industries, Inc. Q2 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, the company's General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries' second quarter 2020 conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management including those related to the company's future performance and outlook are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates, and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties including but not limited to risks related to the global outbreak of COVID-19, another public health crisis; exposure to fluctuations in energy prices; debt and debt service requirements; borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility; disruption in the global capital and credit markets; the strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad; risk associated with sourcing from overseas; importation delays; risk associated with Brexit; customer concentration; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill; unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns; market acceptance of products; competition; price reductions; interest rates; litigation and insurance; retention of key personnel; acquisitions of businesses; regulatory environment; the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty; and information technology system failures and attacks; and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including among others, at the start, in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings. These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially than those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

And with that, I would like to now turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning, Rich, and thank you so much; and good morning, everybody. Thank you all for joining us this morning to discuss our second quarter 2020 results. Before I get started, let me just apologize in advance. I'm in New York where our home office is. There has still a week later been enormous power outages, power surges, lack of things. So our phone lines are very, very weak, believe it or not, after all this time even. So we're going to try to speak up as much as we can. We may get interrupted in the middle of a phone call, hopefully not, but just to put you on notice about that.

I hope all of you are doing well under these most trying circumstances and times that we're all living through. I'd like to acknowledge that this has been and continues to be extraordinarily challenging times in terms of health and the economy and our thoughts are with all those that are affected by COVID-19. I would like to direct your attention to the company's press release that was released earlier today which includes the company's June 30, 2020 balance sheet and statement of operations and statements of cash flow.

In order to streamline today's call, I would like to note the following: First, instead of our management summarizing the company's results and other information from the press release as we have done historically, we have decided to move directly to a question-and-answer session. Anybody who reads the press release can see the information. There's no need for us to cite it over and over again. Second, please be aware that we'll only be answering questions relating to the company's results of operations and financial conditions. We must insist that you adhere to this procedure. Management will not be entertaining any questions that go beyond the scope of this call and this quarter. And with that said, I would be happy to answer any pertinent questions anybody may have at this time. Operator? Operator?

Thank you. Yeah. I'm here. I'm sorry. [Operator Instructions] All right. We can go ahead and take our first question from [ph] Ken Fell from Fell Capital Management (00:04:51). Please go ahead, [ph] Ken (00:04:54).

Hi. Good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my call. In your release, you talked about $840,000...

I'm sorry. We're having trouble hearing you, [ph] Ken (00:05:06). Can you speak a little louder, please?

Yeah. On your release, you talked $840,000 reduction in SG&A. Can you give some of the detail of that? What goes into that $840,000 number?

Sure. Joe, you can answer that question.

Sure. That would include things like advertising, co-op, core fees we pay to customers, freight reductions, compensation, anything related to compensation that would go down with compensation. Those are probably the bigger items.

And Joe, do you see any of those reductions being permanent for either the rest of the year?

Yeah. I would say it is likely that those reductions will hold throughout the rest of 2020. If this is going to be our revenue, it will be a [indiscernible] (00:06:13) – well, let's put it this way. We don't anticipate a large rebound in revenue in the foreseeable future certainly for 2020. So, I would say, yeah, those reductions are going to be I wouldn't call them permanent but certainly through the end of the year.

So, I guess if we just said that it's all tied to the revenues, that would be a fair statement?

Yeah. I know some subjects – there are some variable and subjective expenses in there that we'll also reduce to try to save money.

Yeah. Sure. Sure. Do you maybe foresee any additional reductions going forward?

It is dependent on the revenue stream going forward. If things were to worsen in a significant way on the top side, yes, we'd have to make further changes.

Okay. Sure enough. The $1.6 million impairment charge, can you give us some of the specifics for that? What will be that [indiscernible] (00:07:22)?

Well, the bulk of it is related to the Hy-Tech subsidiary and the bulk of that is related to an intangible labeled customer relationships. And this is probably a little more accounting detail than you need but when revenue pauses dramatically, new projections are performed internally and we work with the evaluation consultant to try to develop what the impact would be on that intangible to the extent revenue falls kind of by definition where these valuations are done, customer relationship value also drops. It's just sort of the nature of how these valuations are done, but hopefully it answers your question.

No, that is helpful. And I was always under, at least I have the idea that these impairment charges were done at the end of the year and not quarterly. Is that something...?

Yeah. Well, management is actually required to review it quarterly. In the absence of dramatic changes in revenue, you typically don't make changes during the year. But as per GAAP, if there's a dramatic change in things, a significant event, i.e., COVID, we're required to take a look at things each quarter. So, we did obviously and felt that that was the appropriate adjustment.

Okay. And getting the crystal ball out, do you anticipate any more charges in the coming quarters?

Again, this is sort of the nature of the way these things work. If revenue is steady going forward, I would say no. In addition to that, we've taken a pretty big chunk out of the intangibles. In fact, I believe on the customer relationship side and have in front of me that I'm not sure there's even much of that left on Hy-Tech. So, I'd say, the short answer is, no, I don't anticipate. But you know, the market will decide.

Okay. Well, fair enough. Appreciate taking my questions and I'll back out, and give somebody else a chance. Thanks.

You're welcome.

All right. We can go ahead and take our next question from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management. Please go ahead, Andrew.

Hi, guys. Can you hear me okay?

Yes. Thank you, Andrew.

Yes. Yeah.

Okay. So, in your comments in the press release, you had I guess, we don't call it a forecast but it's just some insight as to what you're seeing here because we're already in August. And I'm also trying to get a feel for how you came out of the quarter ended June because obviously April and May were more very bad, but I don't know if you saw any green shoots in June. On our last conference call, when I asked about different catalysts to look out for growth or that – you guided to different catalysts to look out for growth. You mentioned a few items and oil and gas prices are trending back up to $40 a barrel. Some planes are going back in the air, albeit the 737 MAX is not up there yet, but Boeing's even announced plans for some production, I think, reinstatement and mobile jobbers are starting calling on garages again. So, did you experience or see any green shoots starting in June or are you seeing them, and are you seeing them now or more follow-through going into August?

Well, the short answer is we did not see any of this in June at all.

Okay.

And we did see – we'd seen and continue to see but I don't want to overly emphasize. We've seen a little bit of breathing room and a little more activity from our general customer base. Having said that, $42 a barrel price for the crude is nowhere near what needs to be for there to be drilling. If you look at the – I believe it's the Baker Hughes rig count, I'm pretty sure that's what it is. The rig count is basically de minimis, it's like nothing. And it's been – we went back and we looked – we haven't seen this low rig count since we stopped looking at 1968. That's when we stopped. Coming back from today all the way back from 1968, there hasn't been anywhere near this kind of a low number of drilling. People just simply in America are not drilling because the pricing is just not there. We've been told we're not experts in the oil field. We're experts in making tools of the oil field, but we've been told that oil will have to be in the mid-50s for it to be even be breathing and not to be robust but just [indiscernible] (00:13:21). So mid-50s, so we're far off those numbers unfortunately.

Having said that, there is – I'm sorry.

Go ahead. Never mind.

And having said that, there is a little bit of activity in – we we're seeing a little activity, and I say little, little activity in that area. As for aerospace, Boeing is virtually non-existent. We are still waiting for them to be approved by the FAA for the 737. They passed all their test but they still have more things to do and that hasn't happened. They said that they were going to be making, don't hold me to the exact number, but it's in the 20s of a – like 20 a month or something, along those lines where they would make...

Order rejected.

It'll have to be four times that amount before this. And we've been getting sporadic and I mean sporadic orders from Boeing, but not from Washington State which is the big place. We've been getting sporadic orders from other places, even Europe, but nothing of any consequence. So there's been no activity and they're not taking visitors in there still. So, there's just nothing going on there. It's amazing to us that the government hasn't really stepped in there because they keep saying how important Boeing is to the economy and in the country and they haven't done anything to be proactive about it. So that company is still floundering dramatically and horribly. As for mobile jobbers, maybe Joe can give some color on that. We are finding AIRCAT to be fairly robust in a relative sense, I mean, compared to where we were a couple of months ago. And we have found our retail business to be also fairly robust compared to where it was, but it's been for the last six weeks or something that I – since the midyear. And so we're cautiously optimistic that we're starting to head in the right direction, but nothing to get crazy excited about.

Joe, you want to add to any of this?

The only thing I would add is that on the automotive side, people aren't buying new cars right now. So, they're repairing the old ones. And once the shops were opened, people didn't have to bring the cars in. So, that work continues and people need their tools.

Right. And then with respect to the recently acquired gear business, when you integrated it in, as you said, there is obviously some disruption and that things would then ramp up. Are you experiencing that kind of ramp up on the order volumes? And are those depressed levels because of the pandemic as well? It seemed these gears, you know, custom work that you guys do might actually be greater demand during this time.

Yeah. Again, the short answer is yes, we're doing – broadly all just setting up and moving it and getting the glitches out and getting it all – going in our new factory in [indiscernible] (00:17:12) and that's all behind us, first half really you know at the beginning of the second quarter it was kind of right behind us. So, we've been – we real – I think we decided in the Q or perhaps even I believe in my press release, one of them we said that that we are at the levels that when we bought the business, the pre-pandemic levels of sales. And if we could get out, if we were admitted into some customers that we've had, we are very confident we will be getting a lot of business, but unfortunately they're not letting us in. So we're getting enough business to keep to the level that we were pre-pandemic, but we feel like we can go much more as soon as we can get out and see people. We talk to them but, it's an engineered product to see things and so we get some business but not as much as we would get if we were able to get out there and we're hoping to get out there very, very quickly. Joe, you want to add on?

Yeah. I would just add that it's an engineered sale and in many cases you need to work with another engineer on exactly what you're trying to accomplish. And while some of that can be done over the phone and the Internet, it's a lot easier in person. And certainly you can try and to grow the business and work with people you've never worked with before. It's really difficult to do without a face-to-face meeting. And some of our key target customers with lots of vacations just frankly aren't letting us even have visit. So, until that changes, we are probably stuck at this sales level, which frankly I'm not disappointed in considering where the world is and we're kind of flat from what we bought.

And we think the prognosis in that area is very, very promising when the world gets into some kind of semblance of orders.

Okay. And when you said things on the retail side that have been holding up, are you referring when you use the phrase retail that includes or is Home Depot?

Home Depot.

Okay. It appears from the published balance sheet in your press release that maybe some of the PPP loan was reclassified as a current liability. And if so, can you explain this? Is it the head count reduction or some other factor?

Joe?

Yeah.

We're going to be, as soon as we're able to – in October I know. Joe will expand on it. As soon as [indiscernible] (00:20:12) October hopefully because the loan forgiveness we will be doing – we intended to do that and we also have to do it. You know, we expect there'll be no issues at all but, Joe, why don't you talk about it.

Yeah. Here's sort of the mechanics, Andrew. Since we are not certain that the loan would be forgiven, the documentation right now states it's a two-year loan, no interest until months even. So, we basically developed an amortization schedule beginning in month seven to take the full amount of the loan down over 18 months and the principal payments that are made between the date of the filing in the next 12 months is considered short term and the remainder would be long term. That's just how it is. So, that number will move obviously each quarter.

So, you're building the amortization of principal because of GAAP or because the loan term itself doesn't require a repayment until year two?

No. No. You're required to start paying it down over an 18-month period. It is not all due at the end of 24 months.

It's not a bullet.

Okay.

It starts it's amortizing in seventh or whatever eight months.

Just like a mortgage. It amortizes like a mortgage?

Yeah.

All right. And so then I understand why that would be the case because you definitely have to assume you're – it's not forgiven until it is. When you're choosing to seek your forgiveness, are you planning to use the eight-week period. And if so, have you submitted your forgiveness application yet or are you planning to use the 24-week measurement?

We're using a 24-week measure, so we won't be seeking forgiveness until sometime towards the end of October.

Okay. Got it. And based on the fact that your facilities are our essential businesses and kept open and [indiscernible] (00:22:32) reduced revenue stream, et cetera. Have you had to do some head count reduction and some of the forgiveness might not come in or have you been able to maintain your head count sufficiently that you expect at this point for forgiveness?

We had [indiscernible] (00:22:56) but we had layoffs after the PPP was used up [indiscernible] (00:23:06) but Joe, why don't you give the specifics.

Yeah. We had no choices but to lay off about 15% of the workforce nationally sometime in June and a few more people even after that. We just mathematically given how the calculation is done, we will know – we are not better off by keeping them. And also what we were finding was that having people around and being inefficient is actually causing the people that need to be worked be efficient in this kind of – it's just one of those strange things about manufacturing. So we felt it was in the best interest of the company to have a reduction in force and try to be as efficient as we could. Having said all that, our preliminary estimate is that the vast majority of the loan will be forgiven.

Right. And if you do use the 24-week period, I think there's a window or an opportunity if the opportunity to ramp up and rehire that you might even be able to expand that?

Yes. That is true. If things turn around before, I think, it's October 25th, I think that's the 24-week period. If we're able to bring back some people before that, that would actually improve our business.

Right. That's why they amended the legislation to create that 24-week period where it makes it basically for hospitality, restaurants, other types where they don't have any staff at all, no reason to have staff. What you guys did but you still have to make cuts.

But Andrew, in there, we may have to be honest; I mean, to open with this and say, we don't really have a crystal ball. Nobody in the country in the world does because we don't know how the government – you know, they have never gone through this before. So we're only giving you our own intelligence on this but we don't have any clue how it's going to be treated or handled or anything else. So it's just a caveat in that regard.

Yeah. Now, as a result of this circumstance in that there's going to be a new normal, have you stepped back or alternatively come up and pivoted your focus on new products as a result of the COVID situation and its potentially prolonged existence? The way people will adapt, there probably is going to be a different way of doing things in lots of circumstances as a result of this pandemic experience. Are there new product opportunities or shifts that you have implemented or foresee doing?

In the Q, there was actually a section that we discussed that our engineering projects are still going on full steam ahead. Actually [indiscernible] (00:26:37) actually, but I don't know if it's related necessarily with the COVID. I think it's related to the fact that we're just doing things to engineer and create new products and we discussed that and there are things and there will be more things coming on with that regard.

Specifics, Joe, maybe you can give him a few [indiscernible] (00:26:55).

Andrew, I don't know that it changed anything dramatically. I think it may have just accelerated kind of the direction we were already heading in and we are certainly looking at development with an eye towards what things may change, what sorts of opportunities for tool sales exist in the post-COVID economy or possibly with some sort of stimulus infrastructure projects, things like that. So, I love how people buy tools. So, nothing is really new, but I think it sort of moved us. It provided an accelerant to move a little faster in some of those projects to take full advantage when things turn around.

Right. I have other questions. Let me back out and give others a chance. And please come back to me.

I don't think if there's nobody else in the queue, Andrew, but...

Okay.

But you can back out. And go back in if you'd like.

I don't know how you... [indiscernible]

(00:28:07)

Yeah. You can tell or let me know or not. You let me know and I'll always take a break...

You got it.

Okay. So on the last call you said the majority of the Blaz-Man Gear products integration was accomplished in Q1, but that there were some small things to complete here in Q2, that just occurred. What would estimate it were there redundant or extra costs incurred during Q2 that were in this quarter and can you expect Q3 operating results in the Blaz-Man Gear products area to kind of fully reflect the integration and costs at a level we should expect going forward?

Yeah. The answer is yes. As I said earlier, it's behind us, that they're selling – that's not. The only caveat is what sales are we going to be getting without being able to see customers and all that stuff and we expect things to stay at the level they're at right now, but we will see growth once we can go out there.

Joe, you want to add onto that?

I would say, Andrew that the few things that were left in Q2 ended up being a little more challenging than we thought and I fully expect Q3 to show better results profits on...

[Technical Difficulty] (00:29:28-00:29:24)

Hello?

Hello? Can you hear me?

You kind of cut off there, Joe, at the end.

I'm sorry. I'll say it again. I fully expect to keep...

Cut out again.

Yeah. He keeps cutting now, one second.

What I was trying to get at was if there was an estimate, especially some key set. It was a little more challenging in Q2 than we thought it would be would be likely the estimate will be redundant or extra costs that were incurred in Q2; that would at least be a tailwind of profitability in Q3 assuming revenues being observed are the same.

Yeah. That is a fair statement.

Q2 was we had a few thing in there that we didn't expect, nothing sequential, but some things in there.

Right.

But Q3 we don't see anything right now.

Right. And now, we're just trying to get an estimate with us of $100,000, $200,000 what kind of the size was it during Q2.

So, it would be better to give you that.

I understand.

I think I mean I can't give you an exact figure, but certainly the six-figure number of savings we would see in Q3 over Q2.

Great. Okay.

Big enough to notice.

And taking into account the cost of capital and contingent purchase consideration, would you say this acquisition is now accretive to earnings already or not yet?

Joe.

I mean certainly on a go forward basis, it's accretive. Yeah, I guess the answer is yes. Obviously, there's a payback involved in our investment, but it's really not cash flow.

Definitely. Definitely becoming accretive in the third quarter.

And can you remind me or us listeners here about the contingent purchase consideration? When does that testing takes place and a payment; I think it's a payment that will be due?

Yeah. First, it's a pretty immaterial number. We look at it every quarter and it's a very small fraction of the upfront purchase price. So, I don't think it would be – even if with all paid and in one shot, it wouldn't be that material. And talking about something that'd be paid over 24 months, so I don't even think you're going to see – it's not even going to be worth talking about. It's too small.

Do you accrue for it, so it's got a miniscule buildup or...

Yeah. The way we're required to do it is that after closing, we actually do a projection of what we expect it to be and it's actually in the purchase price kind of buried in there. And then all we do is try to – we tweak that every quarter if we feel we need to. So it's already in there. It's already baked in. The only way that you would see additional P&L expense would be if we had underestimated, and also in the other direction if we significantly overestimated, we'd have a small pickup, but again we're not even talking about $100,000 opportunity here over a couple of years. And even if I was off 10% to 20%, we just wouldn't see it. We just wouldn't see it.

Right. Now, on prior calls you guys poke of many of your tools being used by Boeing on more than just the 737 MAX, but on other platforms. And while they have greatly reduced their production pace, they haven't completely shuttered. And so, as they use tools, things break, they wear down, they get lost, et cetera, given they have the tools inventory and that tools inventory gets eventually drained down and they were certainly working their working capital as best as they can. And hence that's a headwind that you and other suppliers face. Do you have any visibility into and get a feel for, you know, we'll just call some point of stabilization level of orders from Boeing or [indiscernible] (00:34:32) business from them at all?

Joe, go ahead.

We probably get orders – in normal times, we would get orders from a dozen Boeing facilities, something like that. I might be off by a few but it's certainly more than a couple. I would say, and this is an estimate, 60%, 70% come from one facility or one very closely group set of facilities up in Renton, Washington which is just outside of Seattle. We are getting two orders from everywhere else; even some in the Washington State area, South Carolina, California. I don't know where all the Boeings since I can't remember where they all are. So, we do get some tool orders, but call it, 70% of the infrastructure offline and that's millions of dollars of sales that have really kind of come to a halt. And we don't have any more knowledge than you do about when we might start getting those orders again.

Right. So, know that we just followed what they choose to do with Renton. It could be an indicator of a tailwind or something good for P&F.

Right. If you read it in the newspaper that Renton was back up in making 50 planes a day, that is absolutely a leading indicator of our sales to go in without a question. If somebody said in six months, we're going to be a 50 planes a day, you can absolutely count on that having a significant impact on our revenue.

...even if they said 10 planes a day, that's something just...

Yeah. I mean, 10 would help...

I'd take anything right now. But right now, it's at zero. I mean, I don't think they hit a light switch and all of a sudden, build a 50 anyways. So...

Yeah. Of course, not.

It'll be a ramp-up. On last quarter's call, you said you introduced a fastening tool; so a new fastening system from military aircraft. And they're just starting to get a little momentum when things have got put on hold. Did the order book at all open up on military aircraft in this program? And do you have better visibility now as to when that might happen?

We have orders. We've gotten orders for those tools, but we're not going along as nearly as quickly as we would be if the engineers and production staff and the procurement people in the office, in the building. So, just not there full time. And these orders require sort of a team of people to be involved. And some day somewhere in the building others haven't coming back for months. It's very difficult to get any real momentum, but we absolutely have gotten some initial orders for that tool, same tools.

Okay. Okay. And similarly while things are slow and all that, but a few of the pre-COVID calls you spoke of concrete initiatives that were beginning to marry up for the Pneumatic, Jiffy and Hy-Tech resources to go after the aerospace market in a bigger way, but with long lead times in this field which could be several quarters to a few years before you saw the results. Does any of that at all move forward either in the background at P&F or in the background without physical visits taking place between you and your customers?

I would say the answer to that is no.

Okay.

From where I know.

And...

Yeah. I would agree that. It's ground to a halt.

Right.

All right. And similarly a couple of large aerospace customers that we're working on some of the R&D in connection with their post-potential accounts, and you thought, for example, the same story with Pneumatics.

Unfortunately, they're not – I mean, Airbus is starting to open up in Europe and we've been there actually and we're talking; but in America, nothing. Nothing.

Speaking of Europe, you said progress was developing for aircraft in addition to aerospace tools and distribution opportunities in Europe and are these efforts back on track with the European economy reopening...

They are just starting.

Yeah.

They're starting to get back on track, but you're starting from a dead halt. So, you just don't flick a switch and it just goes on but the answer to your question is yes. It's absolutely getting started there in Europe. Europe is doing much, much better than America, as you know, in that regard.

Right. Now, you've referred a few times to the 10-Q and I've asked in the past; unfortunately, it's still the case is your 10-Q comes out after this call so we don't have the benefit of the 10-Q and some of the numbers in there. And in this instance, you didn't have a script. Are there some depreciation and amortization numbers that you normally say in the script, Joe, that did not make it into the press release that you could share or are they all in the press release that we can dig out?

What we chose to do, Andrew, and hopefully it may be in there, is that while we expensed with the script that had a few numbers in them, we tapped on the cash flow statement to the back of the press release. So, the things that I would normally discuss are there. In fact, it's way, way more detailed than I ever talked about. So...

All right. Well, then, we all...

And I would also say to that a good deal of the management discussion and analysis that ends up in the Q is discussed in the press release. So, we really do have a lot of the data from the Q here. In fact, I think you have, on a relative basis, what you really need. I don't know if there's much of any consequence that you're missing. Obviously, it's not a full 10-Q but I think, the bulk of what you need is there in the release. [indiscernible]

(00:41:32)

It's in the release. For sure.

Okay. Good. We'll look to it because only had a few hours with it before the call began and so it is what it is. But I don't think the press release makes a mention of the current shares outstanding number or does it? And even this goes on usual EPS calculations, all we had is a March 10-Q to go off of. Is there any other meaningful change in the current outstanding number?

Well, I don't have it in front of me but I would have to say I can't think of a reason why there'd be a meaningful change.

Obviously, there's been nothing that I can think of.

Okay. And in what ways on the [indiscernible] (00:42:20) what ways do you have visibility of Home Depot sell-through stocking?

I mean they really don't give us much visibility at all, but I mean, Joe, can you say it in more [indiscernible]

(00:42:40)

I think we have – Andrew, is your question like, is Home Depot stock down? Are they overstocking? What are you trying to get at?

Well, to the extent you have some visibility then I probably have a few more questions. To the extent you're in the dark, it's a negative and a risk.

I mean, I guess it would be – why don't you ask your question and maybe I can answer it. I'll do my best.

So, you had a newly refreshed product line and I can't recall if it was pre-COVID or not, if you started to experience the reorders because remember when we initially took it in, we took this big batch in and it was a while or a slow period initially even though you understood the products we're selling. They weren't necessarily having a new order because they had their initial stocking and then kind of COVID kicked in. And so I'm just kind of wondering what the takeaway was from that newly refreshed product line. And have you had any experience in the orders, et cetera? And how was it faring against the other Home Depot labels that were being offered at definitely different price points?

Yeah. That is the information we wouldn't really have. But let me remind you, Andrew, that the line review, the line refresher to grow was done in 2018, and in end of 2018, not 2019. So, it was way before COVID. So, we had the whole year of 2019 with the new line. And I'm sure that we discussed it on one of the calls that Home Depot made a decision at that time to bring some named products into their product offering. So, we expect what we expected. And in fact, we did have a reduction in our business slightly, not well meaningful, the middle of meaningful but it's definitely seven figures. As a drop in our earnings and our sales because they brought in other things.

Yeah. That was last year. Right?

That was last year.

Yes.

And this year, I guess, all bets are off. And we wouldn't know anything here this year. Though we've had in one particular thing, the spray guns, we will be having a very big water float event from Home Depot for that much more than we anticipated. I guess people are using it. Is it me talking and I don't have enough of what we're talking about. But I'm just using the spray gun for like spray cleaning materials and stuff like that. So, it's being used for alternate use of that one when it was actually intended for, for us in the automotive area.

Yeah. Well, treats is own.

Yeah. Exactly.

Maybe it's marketing and whatever, some follow-through in that new area, you need to [indiscernible] (00:45:59) even further.

Right. Right.

Okay.

But we haven't got any input this year from them as to what's going on this year based on their expectations.

Okay. And finally...

Operator, if there are any other questions and then if not, we will continue with you.

Sure. [Operator Instructions] All right. You can continue.

As of now, there is no others, right?

No. Not right now.

So Andrew, we can continue.

Yeah. I only actually have a few more on this. In light of the economic challenges everyone is having, and the companies relatively low debt level in a period of time when debt costs are – interest rates are so low and especially when you see substantial forgiveness on the PPP loan. Where do you stand in your time allocation efforts of focus on synergistic acquisitions? And is that something that's on your plate? Is it something you're beginning to see? Or the new guys really aren't historically buyers of distressed assets. When you've done that, that's actually not worked out too well but...

That's correct.

...you clearly like these family businesses where the founder is really not having a good line of succession and wants to sell out. I have to believe in these very challenging COVID time that they're going to be plenty of people who want to kind of pack it in and stop the slug in the tire. Are you seeing that yet? And are you even spending time and resources looking at that or are you spending more time and resources adding SKU, looking at cost cuts? You couldn't tell me because your hands are tied and the market is remarkable.

Yeah, we're doing both. We're doing both. But we've been just talking about it for the last month or so that there has to be opportunities of companies who are breathing very heavy and may be much more in a place to advance going to the other things, selling of their business or whatever else. And we're starting to look into that much more carefully. But you know, up until this point, we would just and we still are struggling to try to revive the businesses we created on our own world trying to make things be proactive and make it better. But the answer to your question is yes, we are at that point now and we're looking. And you're right. Distressed companies is not our forte and we're not going to go down that road. But other kind of companies, little nichey companies that fit into our business like the gear business and other businesses that we bought will be the focus.

Right. Now, it's certainly not the right time to see some of the unique headwinds for P&F that are unique to you such as the 737, et cetera. But when this thing starts bouncing back in home, you've now experienced another economic recession of great depth, okay. Any thoughts on your end about what your views are on the exit because at the end of the day P&F is a small little niche business as well.

I don't really know what it is that you're asking.

Yeah. What's the question?

Yeah.

Well, I guess the question is are you having any thoughts down the road upon the recovery of the biz, saying you've had enough of this as well, of these cycles? Just like the founders and other executives...

Andrew, I know you know this but we really couldn't comment on that even if we did. So I guess, anything is possible as time goes on.

No. Maybe you can have a discussion over a dinner at some point.

Yes. That would be fine. I would look forward...

It's when we all can see each other again.

Yeah. We can have virtual dinner in the meantime, right?

I guess so. I have no further questions. Thank you and...

Okay. Thank you for your time Andrew. Thank you for time today. Operator, any other questions?

Yes. We do have another question. We can go ahead and take our next question from [indiscernible] (00:51:27). Please go ahead, [ph] Thomas (00:51:29)

Yeah. I'm just sitting here on the bleachers listening to the heavy hitters here and I am a stockholder. I tried to buy the stock for the last so many months, but there's no volume in the stock. I know this has nothing to do with the quarterly results. But when this conversation that you guys are having, you own over 50% of the company. So the liquidity is horrible. You just can't get any stock. I think the company has tremendous potential, but let me just give you one example of what I'm trying to figure out. The AIRCAT [indiscernible] (00:52:05) Home Depot sells, I contacted 19 Home Depots to get it. No one had it. The earliest you could get it was two weeks out; the same with other tools same thing. [ph]

Thomas (00:52:18) this is – can I interrupt for a second. We don't sell any AIRCAT tools at Home Depot.

Right. We don't sell any...

AIRCAT is available through distribution or on Amazon.

Amazon.

Yeah. We don't sell any...

So the AIRCAT in Home Depot [indiscernible] (00:52:33)

I'm sorry?

The AIRCAT in Home Depot is in the yards. [indiscernible]

(00:52:40)

I'm very surprised that there was an AIRCAT air tool available to sell at Home Depot.

They gave me and showed pages of it. There's pages. Like what I'm looking at right now. 3/8s.

That's from Home Depot?

Yeah. 3/8 high torque hammer impact drill. And I don't know how to pronounce it. Is it Syosset in the York. And it's says...

Syosset?

Yeah.

We're not aware of any AIRCAT at Home Depot at all.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(00:53:12)

I would be very curious to see that website. [indiscernible]

(00:53:22) [ph]

Thomas (00:53:24) let me ask you a question. Is it Home Depot online, is it homedepot.com?

It's on their website?

I called to buy [indiscernible] (00:53:35), I said you know what, I'm trying to figure something out here. I can't buy the stock because there's nothing there to get great equipment, great tools, but you can't get the tools. So, I called Home Depot, I said, listen I'm a contractor. I want this drill. So I get to wait two weeks to get the drill sent to me because, [indiscernible] (00:53:51), so what is it. They go back after they sell it, you get it delivered so that they get the margins?

I really don't know. We'll have to check in to that but we sell AIRCAT through Amazon and through distribution. If you want AIRCAT to get there and you get it next day really. But we'll check and...

You shouldn't have any trouble getting an AIRCAT tool on Amazon.

Okay. So, I guess if Home Depot is advertising your product without your knowledge, how does that happen?

I don't know the answer to that.

I don't know if we can [indiscernible] (00:54:23).

It's not only that one piece. They get paid and everything is the same. So, I think I called them. I said listen, I'm a contractor. I can't sit here two weeks for a drill. I want the drill. That's the best we could do.

Go to Amazon.

It seemed a little crazy.

Go to Amazon. If you want the tool, go to Amazon.

Okay. I do embroidery but somebody [indiscernible] (00:54:46) I want the money out of it. I want to know what's going on. So, if Home Depot is selling your product and you don't know they're selling it and it's like there's no one finding [indiscernible] (00:54:54).

They're not getting it from us but we'll – again, we can't talk about it five times [indiscernible] (00:54:59) each other.

Okay. Well, I don't want to talk about it five times. All I want to talk about is the five times the margin gets lost along the way to the end product. So, for instance, let's say I go to Home Depot and get that drill. Who gets the information on the warranty?

Well, you submit a warranty card. We would give that. That information [indiscernible] (00:55:17)

So, you have the end user of every single product. So, when you say [indiscernible] (00:55:21)

Well, now, hold on. Let me totally answer the question.

Okay.

If someone submits a warranty card, that information ends up at Florida Pneumatic. If someone chooses not to submit a warranty card, we don't know who that customer is in general.

Would you have a rough percentages, I mean, for your warranty card?

It's funny I asked that same question with one of our people the other day. It's not a large percentage. If I'd be guessing, I'm going to say 10%.

Well, as like Mr. Lambert used to say with Sears, whoever controls the end user will control everything. So whoever knows who bought my AIRCAT and Home Depot tells me to take a high product down the road, no big deal. You know who it is.

My thing is a contractor goes to buy it, they couldn't get it. I was shocked. Tonight, I called 19 of them, but anyhow, another quick question. I've run out of time so who I'm going to call. The PPP from the [indiscernible] (00:56:20) was there a dollar figure to that?

Yes. The PPP loan is $2,901,000 or something like that.

US?

$2.9 million.

I understood. I saw that US one. We're talking about the one Great Britain.

There's no PPP on Great Britain.

But you listed something...

We have a $30,000 for the UK.

Yeah. How much was it?

Yeah. So, just to be – go ahead, Richard.

$30,000 for UK.

Just to be clear, that's not a loan. The UK government provided many small companies a certain amount of money that did not have to be repaid. So, I don't know what do you want to call it for [indiscernible] (00:57:13) grants?

It was a grant. It was a grant.

Yeah. Okay. So, yeah. While we're just doing the quick numbers, 29, 24 you got three from the governments. So, you actually did very well all things considered. And when I see the availability of the tools and everything else, I say, you know what why can't I buy the stock? I know it's not something you're going to answer me, but it's crazy. There's absolutely no liquidity at all in the stock. And I've been trying forever to buy you're going to buy what, you know, 25 shares, 50 shares. I don't know. It's really crazy and then the last thing is when do they meet again as far as discussing the dividend?

When do we meet again to discuss the dividends?

Let's say the Board of Directors.

Is that the question? I'm sorry.

Yeah. Actually, when do you meet again to talk about, again, there's nothing in the pipeline?

Yeah. I would really talk about it at every board meeting and we review it every quarter, but there's nothing to report on as of now. When there is, certainly when there is something report we will. I don't have the crystal ball. You can tell when the country is going to get back to normal, we can give you a better answer.

Well, I don't know when the country is going back to normal but I know this. If fracking didn't exist 20 years ago, so the tools that your used to different things right now they have to be applied to some of the industry too. Whether a salesperson can find that industry, I don't know, but there's definitely other uses for the tools. My whole thing is you can discuss everything [indiscernible] (00:58:44) handle these regulations. The bottom line is there's no stock to buy in the company. So, my feeling is it should be a private company or I don't know. I don't understand it. It's just what do you do, nothing there.

Okay. Okay. It's an age-old problem we've had for quite a while [indiscernible] (00:59:03)

...problem, but if I was, if I was upset like a [indiscernible] (00:59:11) it's the opposite. I think the company is a good company. I think it's tremendous but there's stock to buy. I mean, it's like the worst nightmare. That's what they are. Anyhow, thanks for your call.

There are a lot of people who buy stock. I can't debate it with you but there are plenty of people who buy the stock because they accumulate it and they tell us what's going on.

Richard, Richard, if I went out to buy 5,000 shares, [indiscernible] (00:59:36)

I'm sorry, [ph] Tom (00:59:39), this is not really even part of this phone call. I can't possibly speculate on it.

But wait a second, can I ask my last question?

Go ahead.

If there was no stock and no price, there'd be no phone calls, you wouldn't have these meetings, you wouldn't have these things. Everybody is interested in the stock price. That's all we're interested in, but obviously, if you make more money, Joe makes more [indiscernible] (00:59:59) stock price. So, if the stock price has depleted and there's no liquidity, it's like, okay. [indiscernible] (01:00:08) February, you trade under 10,000 shares for the whole month. But anyhow, there's no remedy, I understand that. You either buy it, you either sell it and shut up or move on or what? That's it.

Okay.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you for your time.

Thank you, [ph] Tom (01:00:22).

It appears there are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you, all. Have a good day, everybody, and stay safe and well, and we'll be back to you with our third quarter results towards the end of the year. Thank you, all.

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.