Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — COO, CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Vice President, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the P&F Industries, Inc. Q3 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Richard Goodman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries third quarter 2016 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates, and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, the strength of the markets in which we operate, the impact of competition, product demand, supply chain pricing, company's exposure to fluctuations in energy prices, and other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, among others, as described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our subsequent filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning, Richard. Thank you, everybody, for joining us today. I would like to begin today's call, as we always do, with a brief summary of the company's third quarter 2016 results from continuing operations and earnings per share from discontinuing operations, and how they compare to the same period a year ago. As always, after that, I will ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information, then discuss discontinued operations and provide an update on key events affecting the company. After that, of course, we will have our question-and-answer session.

However, before I begin, I wish to remind all of you once again that the purpose of this call this morning is to discuss and review the company's third quarter 2016 results. As such, I kindly request if you please confine your questions or comments to those company results for the third quarter.

I wish to point out that unless otherwise noted, the financial information discussed on today's call refers to our continuing operations, thus excluding Nationwide Industries which, of course, was sold in February of this year and is being accounted for as a discontinued operation.

The company's consolidated revenue for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2016 were $14.633 million and $44.769 million, compared to $15.924 million and $46.541 million for the same periods in 2015.

Florida Pneumatic's third quarter 2016 revenue was $11.702 million compared to $11.729 million during the same period a year ago. Florida Pneumatic's third quarter 2016 automotive revenue increased by $741,000 or 24.8% over the same period in 2015, being offset by declines in its retail, industrial catalog, and other revenue categories.

We believe much of the shortfall in the retail revenue is likely to be made up during the fourth quarter of this year. The shortfall of Florida Pneumatic's third quarter industrial catalog revenue was due in part to weakness in oil and gas, which continues, and sluggish shipments to its catalog customers as well.

Florida Pneumatic's 2016 nine-month revenue of $35.270 million reflects an increase of $1.284 million over last year's revenue for the same nine-month period. Its automotive revenue for the first nine months of 2016 was $11.336 million, an increase of $2.214 million over the same nine-month period in 2015.

Additionally, Florida Pneumatic's retail revenue for the nine-month period ended September 30 this year increased $59,000 over the same period last year. And lastly, its industrial and catalog revenue declined $836,000 when comparing the nine-month period September 30 compared to the same period a year-ago.

As stated earlier – well, let me continue with Hy-Tech first, excuse me. Hy-Tech's revenue this quarter was $2.931 million compared to $4.195 million for the same period in 2015. For the nine months ended September 30, 2016, Hy-Tech's revenue was $9.499 million compared to $12.555 million for the same period a year-ago.

As stated in previous calls, we believe that the primary cause for these declines continues to be the relatively low price of crude oil. With low crude oil pricing, many rotary rigs have closed or have been temporarily capped. According to Baker Hughes Incorporated, the average rig count in the United States for September of 2016 is 509, down 339 from 848 in the same time last year. Limited production reduces the need for much of Hy-Tech's parts and tools.

Further, as noted on previous calls, one of Hy-Tech's larger customers has decided to manufacture several of the tools and products it formally acquired from Hy-Tech, and Hy-Tech has been advised that one of its customers acquired in the – that was acquired in the Asco acquisition, but it was not placing orders which we believe is again the result of oil and gas pricing and other factors.

The company's consolidated gross margin for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 were 30.8% and 33.6%, respectively, compared to 35.4% and 36.4%, respectively, for the same periods last year. Florida Pneumatic's gross margin improved 1.9 percentage points this quarter compared to the same three-month period in 2015.

For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, gross margin of Florida Pneumatic improved 1.6 percentage points when compared to the same period last year. These improvements are due mostly to product mix emanating from the growth of our automotive revenue, and to a lesser degree, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar to the Taiwan dollar.

During the third quarter of 2016, we increased Hy-Tech's allowance for slow-moving inventory. This adjustment contributed to Hy-Tech's reporting a quarterly gross margin of 9.8%, down from 38.7% for the same three-month period last year. The key driver causing the increase in Hy-Tech slow-moving inventory was due to notification by a Hy-Tech vendor that would not restock certain inventory items.

Hy-Tech's gross margin also declined due to lower overhead absorption, in turn due to lower manufacturing activity levels, as well as this decision to manufacture and sell a very low gross margin suite of products to a customer acquired in the Asco acquisition which we discussed previously. Its nine-month 2016 gross margin of 20.6% is down from 39%, again, driven by increased allowance for slow-moving inventory, lower overhead absorption, the decision to manufacture and deliver a very low gross margin suite of products.

Our selling and G&A expenses for the three-month period ended September 30, 2016 was $4.915 million compared to $4.787 million for the same period in 2015. Significant components for this change include increase in professional fees and services related to merger and acquisition activities, variable expenses incurred in connection with higher automotive revenue, and total compensation expenses, partially offset by declines in depreciation and amortization expenses.

The total selling and general and administrative expenses for the nine-month period ended September 30 this year were $15.088 million compared to $14.834 million last year. This increase was driven by greater variable expenses and total compensation costs, which were partially offset by a reduction in depreciation and amortization expenses, lower professional fees, and expenses in stock-based compensation.

For the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016, other income was $43,000 from the rental income from the Tampa facility and a net expense of $38,000, which was a fair value adjustment to the contingent consideration related to the UAT transaction, partially offset by this rental income.

For the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, we will be reporting $75,000 and $234,000, respectively, with the prior year including a then fair value adjustment credit of $126,000. Our third quarter of 2016 interest expense was $26,000, compared $29,000 incurred in the same period last year. Interest expense for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 was $164,000, compared to $87,000 in the same period in 2015.

During the first quarter of 2016, we were required to write down the deferred financing costs that were attributable to the debt that was repaid in February. Further, 2015 interest was reduced due to accounting requirements to remove and include in discontinued operations certain interest expenses.

Taking the above into consideration, we're reporting a pre-tax loss from continuing operations for the three-month period ended September 30 of $393,000 compared to pre-tax income of $776,000 for the same period in 2015.

For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, our loss from continuing operations before tax was $8.462 million compared to a pre-tax income of $2.274 million for the same nine-month period last year. After-tax results for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were a loss of $5.590 million and income of $1.510 million, respectively.

Our basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30 this year was a loss of $0.08 and $1.55 per share compared to earnings of $0.14 and $0.42 per share for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30 last year. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were a loss of $0.08 and a loss of $1.55 per share compared to the earnings of $0.13 and $0.40 for the same periods in 2015.

Joe, please discuss the cash from discontinued operations at this point.

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during the first nine months of 2016 and 2015 were $894,000 and $1.044 million, respectively. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016 were impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets of $8.311 million; depreciation and amortization of $1.227 million; amortization of other intangible assets of $803,000; amortization of debt issue cost of $118,000; and total stock-based compensation of $39,000. There was also a non-cash credit attributable to deferred income taxes of $3.163 million.

Other significant components which impacted our cash used in operating activities and continuing operations of $3.985 million were increases of $1.947 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets; $2.166 million in accounts receivable; increases in inventories of $681,000; a decrease in accrued compensation benefits of $209,000; and an increase in accounts and accrued expenses payable of $1.591 million. Subsequently to September 30, 2016, we sold the real property located in Tampa, Florida for $3.750 million.

After fees and expenses, we received approximately $3.5 million, which was used to pay down bank debt. The net book value at the time our board of directors approved this transaction was $1.780 million and will accordingly be reported as assets held for sale in our third quarter Form 10-Q. We believe that for tax purposes, the loss carryover from the sale of Nationwide will negate almost all of the capital gain realized in the sale of this real property.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. And before we end our report, I would always like to acknowledge our employees and our management for doing – for working so diligently and for doing such an outstanding job during these continuing sluggish economic times.

That's the end of our report today, and now, we'd be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Good morning. I've got bunch of questions. I'll ask a few and then get out into the queue in case there's others...

Okay.

...but please come back to us. So, your merger and acquisition, professional expense was called out in this press release, pretty sizable increase. Does that mean you're getting close on any new purchases? And can you update us on the status and focus of your process?

Joe can add on to it, Andrew, but we're always looking and exploring, as you know. Certainly, since we sold Nationwide especially, we're looking very diligently for acquisitions and there's nothing to report as of yet, but we're spending time and money in that process, and I guess that's what exactly what it is. Joe, you want to add?

No. It's just that we've done this periodically over the years, as you know. Sometimes, we spend more money than others. Sometimes, it's significant. Sometimes, it isn't. But we can't really say more than that at this point.

And, of course, you know, Andrew, that these things are a moving target. And sometimes, it takes a long time to do these things. And sometimes, it doesn't take so long. But we got to swing at every pitch to hit the ball. So, that's what we're doing.

One other thing I would add is there are some expenses in there related to the sales of building, which is completed.

So, the sale was in October, but you booked the expenses in September?

There's some small expenses in there in the third quarter, yes. That's not the bulk of it, though.

Okay. Well, and if you're always looking on the M&A trail, then the fact that it's higher year-over-year was one of the reasons I'm calling it out and asking about did you come close and something fell through or it could be an indicator that you're getting close on something?

No. We're not – nothing fell through. There have just been a few things, and we're just proceeding with them in a matter, of course, a normal matter of business. I don't know what else to say to you about it. I'm not trying to be mysterious, but just we're doing what we have to do to try to pursue companies and do the due diligence [indiscernible] (16:48) to make sure that we're on the right path with the companies.

That's fine. Let's move on. Several questions on Hy-Tech here. Last quarter, you said that should Hy-Tech's prospects deteriorate, there could be additional impairment charges. Approximately how much goodwill and intangible asset value remains on the balance sheet associated with Hy-Tech?

That is not an answer I can give you off the top of my head. I'll try to look at it while we're on the call. I will say – what I can say off the top of my head is a very large piece of it was written down in Q2, but we'll get you – we can get you that figure before the call is over.

And then your release said, in September, we began shipping new products that utilize our extensive air tool motor manufacturing knowledge to new OEM markets and customers. And is this Hy-Tech or Florida Pneumatic's AIRCAT or something else when you refer to your extensive air tool motor manufacturing knowledge to these new markets?

This is Hy-Tech. This is Hy-Tech, Andrew. What we discussed in our last couple of quarters how we were just shifting the focus of our business because of the oil and gas declines and shifting of market. So we're taking – we're in the midst of taking Hy-Tech, keeping that business, of course, to whatever it is and, hopefully, it will recover when times improve. But we are also shifting the focus as we discussed with that motor technology, et cetera. And we started shipping in September, albeit not dramatic amount, but we started and it's going to be continuing from this point on for the foreseeable future.

Okay. And what are these new target markets and uses?

I can go into some level of detail. We are working on projects in food processing, transportation, industrial maintenance, shipping, those sorts of things and others. And we have active projects going on for the development of products for very specific customers, and we're working directly with those customers in developing those products.

It's a full-time focus at this point.

And you said that there are multiple customer-sponsored projects underway in areas you haven't traditionally marketed to. Can you clarify what you mean by customer-sponsored and also maybe the areas that "not have been traditionally marketed to?"

Okay. So, it would be the areas I just gave you, food processing, transportation, industrial maintenance, and shipping. We're working with a very specific customer on a very specific project to deliver them on an OEM basis some product that's air tool related, air tool manufacturing, motor based related to satisfy need of theirs. And our name won't go on it. It will be part of their product or their production or something inside of their operation. So, we call that OEM business and none of those businesses are related in any way to what I call our legacy air tool business.

And is it a..

Let me just finish. Other than the fact, it takes our expertise that we – our air tool manufacturing expertise.

And is this OEM prospectively a big opportunity?

It's not a single company. It is multiple companies.

Okay. And the market itself is pretty big?

The opportunity, if you add them all up, we feel certainly would go a long way towards getting the revenue back to where it was, once we're fully engaged.

All right. And two of the three customers that you'd called out with reduced business with Hy-Tech were discussed in your release and on last quarter's conference call as well. Today's release also said you received "notification" by a Hy-Tech vendor that it would not restock certain inventory items. Can you please clarify if this is the third Hy-Tech customer that we had already previously discussed last quarter or a different instance and to explain whether this is a permanent or the vendor just realigning its inventory.

Okay. So, let's be clear. We're talking about a vendor here, not a customer. So, this is somebody who supplies us products.

Oh, got it. All right.

So, does that answer your question?

Okay. So, if someone is supplying you and it's not going to restock certain inventory items, so what does that mean for you then? Can you...

What that means is, and maybe the language isn't that clear, we hold a fair amount of inventory that as a result of market turning on us is now slow-moving. There's nothing wrong with it per se, but based on how we go about at least preliminarily looking at inventory and its ultimate value we have, our approach begins formulaically. It's not where we end up, but that's how it starts and then we apply some logic to it.

We believe that we had an understanding with this vendor periodically to return excess inventory during the third quarter. We asked to return excess inventory. Unfortunately, their world isn't a whole lot better than our world and they said they don't want to take it. They don't want to take it back and we should just sell it as we can. So, we just chose to take a reserve against that inventory because now it is slower-moving.

And this inventory is primarily related to oil and gas and/or mining and extraction?

Yes. Yes.

Okay. So, that window and the products or the componentry is – got a low risk of obsolescence, so that when the markets rebound, you'll just be able to start moving it through?

That's a very fair assessment. These products are not ones where the technology moves very rapidly. So, yes, to your question, if the markets turn around, those products will also start to move.

Andrew, I did get any answer on the remaining intangibles related to Hy-Tech. So there is a net book value of $1 million – a little over $1.1 million in intangibles and a little under $900,000 in goodwill.

So it's maximum of $2 million risk. Okay.

Yes.

And last question until I back out here, continuing on the inventory reserves. So when discussing the inventory reserves last quarter, you mentioned also the possibility of the reserves could unwind and come back into income, which sounds like even with this other slower-moving stuff, if things were moving quicker, similarly reserves could unwind and come back into income. How does the board of directors take into account the incurrence and reversing of inventory reserves when setting performance compensation targets and also in awarding or not awarding bonuses?

Well, I mean, they're built into our budgets. They're extremely familiar with the details behind how we build these reserves. And look, I'm not privy to every conversation, but they know what's in there, what the potential is for reversal, if that's the word you want to use.

Okay, great. I'll back out. I have other questions, so please come back to me.

Sure.

And we'll now take our next question from [ph] Henry Dubro (25:18), private investor.

Good morning. I'd like to follow-up regarding the asset held for sale. So, in today's press release, I see you're talking about a book value of approximately [ph] $1.07 million (25:32) and you sold it for I guess $3.5 million net of expenses, so we can correlate, the gain will be the difference in the fourth quarter, correct?

Correct.

Okay.

Book gain. That's the book again.

Correct, correct. When was that asset listed for sale?

I'm sorry. Say that again.

When was that asset listed for sale with a broker or how long the prospect took?

I would say, March, yeah. I want to say March.

March?

Yeah, approximately.

And when did you sign the contract?

What's that?

When did you sign a contract of sale to sell it?

Probably 30 days before we sold it.

30 days. I see. So, all I want to understand is the requirement or the ability to show it is assets held for sale at the end of the second quarter versus the third quarter.

Yeah. At the end of the second quarter, it was – the board did not approve the sale of the building. We had listed it with a broker and asked them to begin the process of marketing it. When I say listed, that doesn't mean it's sitting on some list where anybody could just find it for sale. It's a whole process. They had to do a whole bunch of research and they probably did begin contacting people, so late in the second quarter.

Okay. Just...

And by the way, the board...

If management felt that at the time that you placed it for sale that you could close it within a year, it could be considered an asset held for sale. Yes, I understand...

That's actually not the rule. The rule hinges on the board of directors approving the sale of the asset, just simply trying to market the company is not – does not satisfy GAAP for listing that as a asset held for sale. And, in fact, if the price – if the bids we've gotten weren't good enough, we would not have sold the building. So, it wasn't as if we were selling it regardless.

Right. Okay. Okay. Let me move on back to this inventory reserve. The inventory reserve that you recorded, how old is this subject inventory?

It doesn't really work that way. I mean, basically, the way it works is product – I'm going to make these numbers up. If I've got 100 units of product in the last 12 months, I'm selling 100 units at a clip, without getting into a lot of detail, I probably wouldn't put a reserve on that product. But if I've got 100 units and I'm only selling 25 a year – and that's just for argument's sake, there's nothing wrong with that equipment and it's product that has – there's a low chance of technological obsolescence in the market and there's nothing inherently wrong with the market in the long run just maybe in a downturn, we would put a reserve on that because it's slow-moving. We wouldn't write it off because it's still moving to some extent.

So, it's not about how old it is. I mean, I could have built it in the last 12 months. I could have built it a month ago. The way it's driven is by what the activity level is in the most recent period and how that relates to how much we've got. And then, there are a number of other factors that come into play which can have an effect on the ultimate figure. We could have a commitment from somebody. We could have the opportunity to convert that into something else that moves. There are multiple factors just beyond a formula.

$427,000 reserve represents what percentage write-down of the costs that you were carrying it at?

I'm going to say less than 5%.

Less than 5%.

And again, let's be clear, that's 5% of total inventory. The way we do this...

No. I'm talking about the products, the [indiscernible] (30:20) product.

Yeah. Okay. Let me answer your question. Let me answer your question. We have 20,000 SKUs. We literally look at the turns for every single one every quarter. So, I can't tell you in this phone call SKU number 1, 2, 3 has a certain characteristic. There are 20,000 SKUs we look at every quarter, and I would venture to say there are various reserves of various sizes on thousands of them. So, it's not a single end. It's not a single...

If you wrote down a $400,000 reserve, was that on inventory that had an original cost of $500,000, $2 million? I'm just trying to understand the magnitude of the reserve on that slow-moving inventory.

Unfortunately, that's not something I can answer, simply it's too complex to answer that question. I'd have to literally hand you a list with thousands of part numbers and you'd have to go through each one and calculate the percentage reserve to the original value which is not practical to share that information publicly. I know what you're trying to do and it does get down to that level of detail, but there's no practical way to disseminate that information to the public.

Okay. My last question, before I leave it to others, is the current quarter merger or acquisition fees, whatever, due diligence fees, these were professional fees for the most part whether they're legal, accounting, other experts for either proposed or abandoned transactions?

Yes. And also experts, professional – other professional experts, there could be travel in there, anything related to our M&A activity or our exploration of potential activity.

And you said there were some minor amounts that may relate to the closing of the building and...

Yeah, very minor. I would probably should move off of that. It's immaterial. It's in there, but it's not material. The bulk of those expenses would reside in Q4.

Okay. So if it was material, you could have deferred that?

Yeah. That's a fair point. I mean, again, I'm just going to make this up. Maybe there's a little bit of travel in there, maybe there was an expert we needed for something. It was immaterial enough that we left it in the prior quarter because, as you know, there was no guarantee that building would be sold. So, I can't just leave those expenses hanging out waiting for a sale to happen. We've got to expense them.

Other than that, you know, the sale occurred. But as you said, it's immaterial. Okay. I'm going to leave for now. Thank you.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

And we'll now take our next from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Yeah. One remaining Hy-Tech question and then I wanted to move on here. You called out the price of crude oil and the resulting reduced rig count as a cause – as the macro cause on Hy-Tech's revenue decline. With oil prices and rig count up over 20% from the end of June to the end of September, are you seeing stabilization or possibly even sequential that this quarter versus last quarter improved impact on Hy-Tech in this area?

We are not.

We've had sporadic upticks, but generally speaking, I would say the answer is no. I don't think it's from what the experts say and we read and all that, we haven't hit that inflection point yet. I think it's more, I mean...

Was there a time lag you encountered from the decline in the rig count and the oil price when it started to get tight, Hy-Tech which would then give maybe an indication of the time lag on the rebound in pricing and rig count as to when customers would start to need your Hy-Tech tools again?

I would say this, there was a little bit of time lag for a good part of the business. I'm going to say it was a quarter, maybe it was two. And then, there was an even further time lag for one of our largest customers who is in the oil and gas business. It probably was a quarter after that or two.

Okay. Well, then, we'll ask you next quarter, should the rig count and oil prices stick here at the September level or improve even further by the end of December? And besides, that will be a February or a March conversation, anyway.

Yeah. I mean, we follow it. I'm sure you follow it as well. But we follow it very carefully. And maybe two weeks ago or three weeks ago, oil was north of $50. And now, it's shot back down to mid-$40s.

Yeah, right.

Looked like it improved...

Actually I'm following the rig count a bit more because it seems like the rig count would be what would drive the use of your tools.

Yes. Yes.

The rig count is up 20% from end of June to end of September, but we'll see what happens.

I think they go hand in hand a little bit, Andrew.

Yeah.

But, hopefully, we'll see.

Moving on with Hy-Tech, in terms of some general things discussed last quarter and to follow-up on them, while you're looking to acquire companies and assets at low accretive valuations, these purchases still have some form of unknown risk. And if investors are going to give away especially in the face of you selling real estate for $3.5 million and paying up all the debt, okay, if they're going to give away P&F shares and its assets, and assets that you and the board best know the risks of, i.e., our company, at valuations far less than any other assets. In fact, today, our stock trades below net-net working capital per share. Why isn't P&F buying back shares yet?

Andrew, I can only tell you [indiscernible] (37:14).

Sure. Let me – I mean, that's a complex decision. It involves needs for cash, what the price of the stock is, all the various SEC regulations and trading restrictions. So, I don't – I think intellectually, I don't think there's a disagreement that that's something that should be looked at. I don't think we have an issue with that, but it's not just that simple.

All right. Well...

Andrew, we're restricted by quiet periods. I mean, you know this stuff as well as we do.

I do. So let me walk you through something here. Just to make sure you and the board have explored this, okay, because last quarter, you said the board discussed the buyback right after the annual meeting when P&F shares were around $8.50 a share. And you concurred that the stock then was underpriced. Now at $6.80 a share, another 20% lower, okay. In the last quarter, you also referred to "clearance from legal counsel as an impediment." Now, you guys pay your lawyers a lot of money for them not to be familiar with and then to advise the board on a 10b-5 repurchase plan, which when adopted is not blocked by quiet period windows. Are you familiar with these 10b-5 plans yet, and if not, will you have your lawyers brief you and your board about them?

Of course, Andrew. Of course, we're familiar with 10b-5. I mean, [indiscernible] (38:56).

Well, if you're familiar with the plan, then why...

Of course, we are familiar with it.

...why say quiet periods are the impediment?

Well, it's not just quiet periods. Okay, here's the deal. Just as an example, if you rewind to November or the fall of 2014, you wouldn't be aware of this, but the board had concluded that we should explore the sale of Nationwide. That is the fall of 2014. We were in discussions, heavy discussions, through all of 2015, till the end of 2015, to the beginning of 2016. We couldn't do a thing about setting up a 10b5-1 plan during that period of time.

Totally agreed and totally understand. Okay.

Okay. Let me finish. Right after that, the board decided we should think about selling the building that didn't go along with the sale. Our advice from our attorneys was the same. Guys, we can't set up a 10b5-1 plan. If you're thinking about selling the building, it's too significant.

So, now, that takes me to November 1, 2016. I'm not saying that's the only reason we didn't set up a 10b5-1 plan, but we absolutely could not set up a 10b5-1 plan from the fall of 2014 to the fall of 2016. And I'm not going to talk about whether we're in a quiet period now or not, but I'm just giving you example of how difficult it can be to do what you say.

So, you've illustrated to me you understand how it works and when and how to adopt it. So, can we then move the discussion forward that when a quiet period window finally opens up, given where you thought the price was undervalued at $8.50, given that our tangible book value is almost $10, given that we're trading below net-net working capital now, will the adoption of a 10b5 plan, when a window opens up, be a very or more serious consideration for this management and board?

Andrew, we absolutely have the exact same opinion that you do and we understand fully what you're saying, of course. And the board is – if situations present themselves at our next board meeting and we don't have any lawyer intervention regarding anything going on at that particular moment, clearly, we would consider that discussion, clearly.

Good.

Having said that, I can't promise you that that's the case, but of course, that would be absolutely – and the discussion at the board level, even if there is something going on, we still discuss it.

Okay.

And as a matter, of course, every single board meeting with great intensity.

Okay. And just so you know, as well more than a 10% shareholder, I'm subject to Form 4 Section 16 short swing profit issues, I'm buying the shares that [indiscernible] (42:08) giving up that you guys can't buy and it's not like I'm turning around and looking for somewhere to sell them, don't get that impression. I'm buying the shares. I'm just thinking that, here we are looking at acquisitions which carry risk relative to where our securities are being offered, you can get the assets you know all the well about at far bigger discounts and higher rates of return, it's just a great accretive use of capital when you're allowed to do it.

I'll let Joe answer the question one more time. But, Andrew, with me, there have been times that I've wanted to buy more stock. And I have been told that I cannot do that for exactly the same reasons that the company cannot.

Well, there's a separate reason [indiscernible] (42:58) corporate opportunity because the company ought to buy back shares instead of you, to be honest.

Well, we could, there's nothing wrong in saying that. I'm not a lawyer, but there's nothing wrong saying we couldn't do both. I mean – but right now, we can't do anything. So, at that time – or during this period, we could not do anything. And as I said, at our next board meeting in December, we will discuss it again and consider it. And if there is nothing else pending in any way, we will definitely entertain it as we do for all the obvious reasons that you've stated and we are fully aware of.

No. I'm hopeful that you don't limit yourself just to the scheduled quarterly in-person board meetings, but should the window open up prior to the in-person board meeting, the e-mails and the phone calls get done and you have a telephonic that does the approval without waiting for the quarterly window, the quarterly meeting.

Andrew, I think you've made your point. I think that we know your point. It's nothing new. It's nothing – no revelation made. Just continuing to talk about we're talking past each other. We understand it and we will do as we deem appropriate and we are on the same page. That's all I can say.

Right. Now, P&F, like any company's valuation multiple, directly impacts your cost of capital and the value that you can add from your acquisitions or other uses of capital. So, in order to widen your potential acquisition market, you had a higher value shares, your cost of capital is lower, the accretion of what you – what else you acquire would be better.

Now, I know in the past, you didn't feel investor relations efforts were worthwhile. But in light of the fact that on what should have been treated as good liquidity enhancing balance sheet strengthening news of the recent Florida real estate sale, investors, in a very high volume, mind you, over 1.25% of the company's total shares outstanding sold off P&F shares to absurd valuation levels.

So, have you given some thought to increasing the company's investor communication efforts, because you mentioned on the last call, "if we had something to talk about," but perhaps telling the company's investment proposition basically that you have a grossly undervalued stock relative to the businesses you already own and the cash flow these businesses on a normalized basis generate and their prospects, isn't that sufficient enough to talk about?

Andrew, again, this is a third quarter conference call, and you're using it in another platform and that's not the scope of this call. But I will answer your question, and then I'm going to ask you to please focus on the third quarter. But, yes, we talk about Investor Relations also on a very regular basis, not just at our meetings, but at other times, and we talk to people about it. And it has been our sense and the board's sense that there is nothing much that is not obvious and there is no productive sense for us to be going in that route.

Having said that, every quarter or whenever we meet and talk and we – actually, we had a conversation about this, I'm going to say, Monday of this week when we had a telephonic with the board, and that was actually one of the brief comments that we talked about, and we said we will discuss it again at the meeting coming up in December.

So, I don't know what else to say to you. There's nothing that you're saying to us that we are not fully familiar with and fully aware of. And, I mean, I'm going to say you have to trust us that we're doing what's right for – doing everything we think is right for the stockholders, and that's not only in this issue, but in any issue.

And I really appreciate everything you always tell us about when you write us about the 10b5 and all those stuff, but I assure you we understand all of that stuff. And though we appreciate your interest and your concern and there's nothing wrong with your continuing to give us the information, I can assure you, the management of this company and our board are ultimately and extremely familiar with all the things that you are discussing.

Not to say you shouldn't continue doing it, and don't misunderstand me, we're happy to have your comments and your suggestions. But I need you to know that we are ultimately very intimately familiar with all these things and discuss them on a very regular basis, so you're not talking to a wall. We understand exactly what you're saying and we talk about it with or without your prodding, but we're happy to have you prodding as well.

Right. Okay. The only area it seems we may have a slight disagreement on is that you had made the comment, if we had something to talk about, I believe you already have something to talk about. Yes, there's other things that could be better. But given the current stock price of the company and what you have, you actually already have something to talk about and investor appreciate that too.

I don't mean to be disrespectful. I hear you. I understand exactly what you're saying.

Good.

Let's move on. And I assure you again, at our meeting next month, we will discuss it. And the board members who, of course, are on the call today hear what you're saying, and we will absolutely discuss it yet again, and we would anyway.

Good. Let me back out. I have questions on Florida Pneumatic to come back to me on, but in case someone else is waiting.

There's nobody else on the call.

All right. Last quarter, you didn't have enough time with the new CNC machine to opine on whether the expenditure was paying off as anticipated. With another quarter of experience, is this investment generating the payback and benefits you were hoping for?

Are you talking about Hy-Tech?

I think that was a Hy-Tech CNC machine, it was a pretty big CapEx.

Yeah. I mean, the activity levels are below where we'd like them, so it is not fully utilized.

Okay.

Not even close actually, but it will – obviously our plan is that it will be.

Yeah. Can you discuss CapEx plans for the current quarter and in the upcoming year on major projects embarked on or to be embarked on?

There's nothing to discuss for 2017 because we're really just working on budgets for that. There will not be anything unusual in the fourth quarter.

Okay. Florida Pneumatic?

Yeah. Normally, if Hy-Tech is rock and rolling, we get requests for CapEx and we never turn them down. We discuss them with them, but we never turn them down. But, of course, with the much shorter revenue and with the change in revenue to different types of products and demands, I don't really envision much of anything in the CapEx area next year. Having said that, when we go to the budgets, we may see a difference. But right now, there's nothing that we're discussing in any way, shape or form.

Okay. On AIRCAT, on prior calls, you spoke of additional AIRCAT products to come online later this year. Can you provide an update in more detail at this time yet?

It's an ongoing thing. We've introduced new products. As a matter of fact, there was a show last week in Las Vegas. Do you want to go?

I believe we launched a dozen new products...

Right.

...approximately a dozen new products last week at the show.

Yeah. I saw that in their Twitter feed.

Okay. So, if you go to aircat.com, I think you'll see those new products.

Yeah. And it's a little too early to tell there's something [indiscernible] (50:39).

The AIRCAT acquisition that we made and the marketing and the development of that line in Florida Pneumatic has been nothing short of sensational in our little world. It's been doing really, really great and continues to do.

Now, you said in your release that Florida Pneumatic or maybe specifically AIRCAT, your strategic plan was to move into other sectors of the automotive market. Can you expand on what you mean by other sectors that you're focusing on? Is this a way from the less cyclical repair and maintenance use or is it some other expansion?

It is a way – not a way, but it's an additional silo, without going into a lot of details, different than repairs and maintenance.

Okay. And you can't go into more detail because it's competitive?

Yeah. I prefer not to. When we get closer, we can talk about that.

Okay. You said you had additional geography primarily in Central Europe you were developing for AIRCAT and other tools and developing distribution opportunities throughout Europe as well. Can you provide an update in more detail yet?

There's not a whole lot to update you on. It's ongoing. It's very slow going. We don't have a lot of resources in Europe, but we're still working on it. We're confident we're going to have something sometime in 2017.

Okay. And regarding your sequential decline in Florida Pneumatic retail revenues, this is the September quarter versus the June quarter, to what extent can you clarify was this related to seasonality or special promotion or other factors at Sears?

In my presentation at the beginning of the call, I said that we expect to pick up the difference in the fourth quarter of this year.

It's just timing, Andrew.

Yeah. So, in the middle of November, has some or all of that products then shipped?

Yes. Yeah, we're making that up as expected.

And your recent experience and visibility with respect to Craftsman tools both for Sears and its many affiliated spin-offs, is there anything new to report in light of the discussions that Sears is having about monetizing Craftsman and it's in...

We would know no more than you know about that. We don't sit in their office. We don't know – we only know what they tell us and what is released in the – and actually they only know what is in the papers in a lot of cases. But the October 31st was the deadline that they had put to get all this in and all that stuff. And I can only tell you that at the show last week in Las Vegas, Sears was there and they were very, very upbeat about 2017 for whatever that's worth, and they may not – the people may or may not know what they're talking about. But they know more than we do. That's for sure.

And on the last call, Joe discussed developing some new products that you were about to launch for the Craftsman line. What's the status of that launch and your experience on these new products so far?

Those are not out yet. In fact, I suspect, and I don't have my notes in front of me, that's probably 2017.

All right. I will ask you in March then. Also, you stated that Sears had indicated they were working on new additional avenues to sell Craftsman tools. Did those new channels materialize yet or what is your experience coming into these new channels?

Yeah. They have not shared anything – they have not announced anything new to us since that last comment.

Okay. On Home Depot, what's your current experience and visibility with respect to Home Depot U.S.?

I mean, I don't have anything unusual to report. It's business as usual, fairly steady year-over-year.

You mentioned on last quarter's call that the initial launch experience with Home Depot Canada was quite favorable, even if it was a fraction of the business you do in the U.S.

Yes.

But you also were rolling out additional tools there and what's your current experience and visibility with all of that?

They're rolling out, but it's not – I don't know that it's particularly material.

Okay. And lastly, on the last call within industrial, you called out aerospace as a sub-segment that was to see several new products before year-end. Now that we're mid-November, with only a month and a half left, have these new products rolled out yet and what's been your experience with the ones that were rolled out so far?

We're still working on them. They're very complex, and they're still under development.

We're hoping to have them out in the fourth quarter. And when we get them, the market in the aerospace, I don't know how much you know about it, it requires testing on their part and all sorts of long trials before they start using it, Boeing or Airbus, around those people. So I would expect we'll have more to say about it at our March call, but I don't think we have much – I don't think there'd be much of any kind of consequence before that, to be honest.

And it'll be a slow start but...

But once it's approved, it'll be a good thing for our company.

Okay. And the approval process, time lag, three months, less than three months, six months once you introduce the tool?

It varies by company, and it can be anywhere from three months to a year frankly. It depends on that. It's their – it's not us, it's their own schedules, their own needs, et cetera.

And even beyond approval, there's acceptance. It takes many months. Even once it's approved, quarters even, for it to get accepted throughout the Boeing infrastructure.

Yeah. This is not a sale like the automotive.

And is it approval on their existing models or is it only for new models?

It's not really an approval by model. It's an approval by tool.

Okay.

So, a particular tool could be used on manufacturing of a 737 or 777 or a Dreamliner.

And you think you guys will be price competitive with your competition?

Yes., extremely.

Exactly, probably 100%.

Yeah. And the issue for you is to design it of equal quality?

Exactly.

Yeah. Exactly, which we have, it's better quality, frankly.

Good to hear.

We have a very good story to tell, but it takes time.

Yeah. Thanks, guys. I'm done.

Okay.

Thank you, Andrew, for your patience and your time.

And there are no further questions in the queue at this time.

Okay. So, thank you, all, everybody, for your time today and we look forward to speaking to you with our year-end results in March. Thank you, all, and have a wonderful holiday.

And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the P&F Industries, Inc. Q3 2016 earnings conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.