raw transcript


P & F Industries, Inc.
 
PFIN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the P&F Industries fourth quarter


2004 financial results conference call. At this time al participants are in a listen-only mode.


Following management’s prepared remarks we will hold a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions].


As a reminder this conference is being recorded today March 24, 2005. Now I would like to turn the


conference over to Ms. Jody Burfening. Please go ahead ma’am.


Jody Burfening, Lippert/Heilshorn & Associates


Thank you operator yes this Jody Burfening, of Lippert/Heilshorn & Associates. Welcome to


everyone to P&F Industries fourth quarter earnings conference call. With us today for management


are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer and Joseph Molino, Chief


Financial Officer.


Before we get started I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during


this call including those related to the company’s performance for the 2005 fiscal year are based


upon the company’s historical performance and on current plans, estimates and expectation. They


are subject to various risks and uncertainties including but not limited to the impact of competition,


product demand and pricing. These risks could cause the company’s actual results for the 2005


fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements


made by or on behalf of company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which


they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publically or revise any


forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, further developments or


otherwise. With that I would now like to turn the call over to Richard, good morning Richard.


Richard A. Horowitz, Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer


Good morning Jody and thank you so much and thank you all for joining us today. I am pleased to


report in the fourth quarter of 2004, overall revenues increased 62.4% to $31.6 million from $19.5


million in the fourth quarter of 2003. Including $9.2 million in the acquisition of Woodmark


International which was acquired in June 2004. You should note that consolidated financial


statements of both periods, for both periods presented here have been reclassified to reflect


discounted operations of Green Manufacturing’s hydraulic cylinder division which resulted from the


disposition of certain assets in December 2004 to a non-affiliated third party in the industry. We will


be more than happy to explain that in further detail to anybody who needs it, or if the questions are


asked. Income from continuing operations which exclude the results from Green’s hydraulic


cylinder division increased 42.2% in the fourth quarter to $1.332 million or $0.35 per diluted share


compared to $929,000 or $0.26 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2003.


Before I take you to a more detailed look at the operations for each of our four business units, I’d


like to review what each of our company does. Florida Pneumatic Manufacturing Corporation has


been primarily engaged in importing and manufacturing approximately 50 types of pneumatic hand


tools. Our Countrywide subsidiary imports and manufactures hardware products for items such as


doors, windows, and fences as well as other general hardware products. Countrywide is comprised


of Woodmark International, Nationwide Industries, and Franklin Manufacturing. And with the


acquisition of Woodmark International in June 2004, Countrywide now also imports and


manufactures staircase components and Kitchen and Bath hardware and accessories. Green


Manufacturing was formerly engaged in the manufacture, development, and sale of custom


designed welded hydraulic cylinders used in heavy industrial and mobile equipment. With the


disposition of the assets associated with this cylinder business in December of 2004 and the
raw transcript


P & F Industries, Inc.
 
PFIN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Access product line in February of 2005, the remainder of Green’s products include a line of post


hole digging equipment for the agricultural industry. However, the results of operations of


operations of all of these product lines were included in discontinuing operation through December


31, 2004. Embassy Industries manufactures and sells baseboard heating products, as well as


radiant heating products and gas-fired boilers primarily in the Northern tier of United States.


Now I’ll review with you the quarterly performance at each of our business units. Florida Pneumatic


accounted for 43.5% of consolidated revenues for the fourth quarter. Revenues for the fourth


quarter of 2004 increased 20.4% to $13.7 million from $11.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2003,


due primarily to increases in retail promotions, new product introductions and increased penetration


into the automotive aftermarket. This increase was even more impressive, given the loss of a


major customer in the fourth quarter of 2003, which negatively impacted revenues that past year.


However gross margin at Florida Pneumatic decreased from 31.5% in the same period last year to


29.4%. As a result of the weakness of the US dollar in relation to the Japanese Yen and a new


Taiwanese dollar, it’s a loss of the major customers in the last quarter of 2003 have bit of an


average gross margins that I discussed earlier and by a [indiscernible] less favorable product mix


offset by other cost reductions and productivity improvements. We remain optimistic about


prospects of Florida Pneumatic as we anticipate a continuing favorable impact from the revenue


generated from these new products introduced during 2004 and other products under development


that is stated to release in 2005. Additionally we continued to focus resources on our automotive


segment which had strong growth in 2004. And lastly two of our major customers in the hand tool


business are in the process of redesigning their respective tool displays and store layouts with the


intention of improving sales in many product lines including ours.


As a footnote, I am also pleased to mention that Florida Pneumatic was informed earlier this month


that it is a recipient of the Sears 2004 'Partners in Progress' Award a very prestigious award which


recognizes a select group of its very best performing suppliers for their commitment to excellence.


We are proud of this accomplishment and look forward to continuing our strong relationship with


Sears into the future.


Countrywide accounted for 42.5% consolidated revenues for the quarter. Revenues for the fourth


quarter of 2004 increased 237% [ph] or $13.4 million from $4.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2003


due primarily to the inclusion of Woodmark’s revenues. Gross margin for the quarter decreased


from 32.8% from 32.9%, and this decrease was primarily driven by the inclusion of Woodmark


which has slightly lower gross margin, gross profit margins and the rest of Countrywide. Gross


margins on nationwide also decreased slightly due to higher freight and overhead costs as


inventory levels began to build for the up coming season and the company completes the


integration of a new supplier.


Nationwide sales increased by 15% for the quarterly period resulting from increases in the fencing,


OEM and product lines, and in 5 year [ph] product lines. So the fencing products are benefiting


from increased market penetration, while the OEM line has secured some new accounts and


hardware sales improved as a result of the payers required from the hurricane damage in 2004.


Finally we expect incremental sales in Countrywide’s planned expansion to the West Coast


beginning in the second half of 2005. In fact we intend to sign a facility lease in the next 30 days


and begin hiring employees shortly thereafter. Our Green manufacturing subsidiary which for the


fourth quarter reported, reporting purposes did not include the discontinued cylinder division


accounted for approximately 4.4% of consolidated revenues for the quarter. Revenues in Green


manufacturing continuing operations which only include the access in agriculture products divisions


increased nearly 36% for the fourth quarter of 2004 to $1.4 million compared to $1 million for the


fourth quarter of 2003. Due to the general improvement in economic conditions effecting both this


access in agricultural product lines. Gross margins for the quarter decreased from 28.1% in the


same period in 2003 to 26.7% due primarily to the increased cost of raw materials. Net proceeds


from the sale of the cylinder access divisions we used to pay down debt as well as the proceeds