Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino, Jr. — Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby. Good day and welcome to the P&F Industries, Inc. Q3 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. Today, after management's remarks, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, the company's General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning. Welcome to P&F Industries' third quarter 2018 conference call. With us today from management: Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations which are subject to various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to exposure to fluctuations in energy prices; debt and debt service requirements; borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility; disruptions in the global capital and credit markets; the strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad; risk associated with overseas sourcing, including tariffs, customer concentration; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill; unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns; market acceptance of products; competition; price reductions; interest rates, litigation and insurance; retention of key personnel; acquisition of businesses; regulatory environment; the threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty; information technology system failures, attacks; and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including among others, as described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

And with that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Thank you, Rich, and good morning, everybody. Thank you all for joining us this morning on our third quarter call. I will begin today's call with a brief summary of our three and nine month results and how this data compares to the same periods from the prior year.

However, I direct you to our release earlier today for more information. That release this morning present the P&F's balance sheet, statement of operations, per share data, along with most of our management's discussion and analysis. Before I get started, I wish to emphasize as I always do that the purpose of this call is solely to discuss and review the company's results for the three-month and nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 only. As such, I must insist that you please confine your questions to the topic at hand. Thank you in advance for your cooperation.

After my overview, I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information and provide an update on any key events affecting the company, after which we will move to our Q&A session.

The company's consolidated revenue for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 were $17,662,000 compared to $15,782,000 during the same period in 2017.

As discussed in the company's earnings announcement released earlier today, as a result of our adoption of the new revenue recognition standards, which became effective January 1 of this year, certain expenses that were previously accounted for in our SG&A costs prior to the adoption are now accounted for as a reductions to our revenue, gross margin and SG&A. While the adoption of this new accounting standard did not affect our net income, it did cause Florida Pneumatic's revenue, gross profit, and SG&A to decrease each by $321,000 for the three-month period ended September 30 of this year.

Florida Pneumatic's third quarter revenue was $14,035,000 compared to $12,295,000 during the third quarter of last year. We increased our retail revenue by more than $1.1 million to $6,343,000 from $5,212,000 last year. This improvement was due to Florida Pneumatics shipping the rollout of the new and improved Pneumatics to line to the Home Depot. Further, I'm pleased to report that when comparing this quarter to the same three-month period a year ago, Aerospace revenue increased by 17.6%.

Lastly, when comparing the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 our Industrial and Catalog sectors improved 29.6%. Hy-Tech's third quarter 2018 revenue improved to $3,627,000 from the third quarter 2017 revenue of $3,487,000. The primary component of this increase was increased shipments of new products in connection with our Engineered Solutions initiative, which continues to strengthen. I wish to point out that open orders for this product category as of September 30 of this year was approximately $1.8 million, nearly doubling the level at June 30, 2018, and more than $1 million greater than the level at September 30, 2017.

The company's third quarter of 2018 consolidated gross margin was 37.4% compared to 35.4% for the same period in 2017. The most significant factor contributing to the improvement occurred at Hy-Tech were margins improved 5.6 percentage points. This increase was due primarily to greater absorption of its manufacturing overhead costs, driven by greater throughput throughout the facility, product mix and price increases on certain product lines.

With improving product mix in its inventory, Hy-Tech has also been able to reduce its obsolete and slow moving inventory charges this quarter, compared to the same period a year ago. Additionally, as noted earlier, Florida Pneumatic's gross margin was impacted by the adoption of the new revenue recognition standards which caused a 2.3 percentage point reduction in their gross margin.

Our third quarter 2018 selling, general and administrative expenses was $5,737,000, compared to $5,352,000 for the same period a year ago. As a percentage of revenue it declined to 32.5% from 33.9% for the same period in the prior year. During the third quarter, we recorded a charge of $28,000 relating to an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration payable to the seller of Jiffy.

Lastly, the company's interest expense during the third quarter of this year was $66,000 compared to $50,000 compared during the third quarter of 2017. This increase was primarily due to higher interest rates and increased revolver borrowings, and an increase in the amortization of debt issue costs. Taking all the above into consideration, I'm pleased to announce that, for the three-month period ended September 30, 2018, we are reporting pre-tax income of $767,000 compared to $171,000 for the same period one year ago. On an after tax basis, we are reporting third quarter 2018 net income of $541,000 compared to $5,000 in Q3 of last year.

Third quarter 2018 basic earnings per share were $0.15 compared to no earnings per share for the third quarter of 2017. Diluted earnings per share this quarter was $0.14 compared to, again, no diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2017. As a reminder, I refer you to this morning's press release for additional information.

At this point, I'll ask Joe to please give us some further information. Joe?

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 were $1,757,000 compared to $444,000 during the same period in 2017. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during the first nine months of 2018 were depreciation and amortization of $1,020,000, amortization of other intangible assets of $531,000. Stock-based compensation of $201,000, change in deferred taxes of $292,000, allowance for doubtful accounts and charge back of $242,000, increase in estimated fair value of contingent consideration payable to the seller of business assets of Jiffy of $86,000, amortization of debt issue costs of $71,000, and amortization of the cost for contribution to customer of $42,000.

Additionally, significant components in impact to cash provided by operating activities during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018 were an increase of $2,914,000 in accounts receivable, an increase of $618,000 in inventories and accounts, and accrued liabilities in the aggregate increased $551,000.

With that I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. In closing, I would like to acknowledge all of our employees and management for their continued outstanding performance. People make a business and we have a very good group of dedicated employees. That's the end of our report today and we'd be happy to answer any questions anybody might have now. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question today from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi, guys. Thank you. Several questions; I'll ask a few and then back out into the line for others to ask. If you could, could you expand on a little bit more on the higher Aerospace revenue growth that you've been able to enjoy? Is this one-time with respect to certain programs or something you feel as a sustainably higher level of activity that Jiffy and/or P&F as a whole in Aerospace can enjoy, and also if you could discuss the prospects for further growth?

We would expect that this is not a blip. It was a key decision that we made when we bought Jiffy that introduced us further into the Aerospace industry; and the Aerospace industry is doing well and we're well-positioned with Jiffy and the overflow with Florida Pneumatic in that area. So, we expect that – I can't foresee the future, nobody can, but we are placed properly there and we expect to do well. Joe?

Yeah, I just would add two things. I think, over time, we have greatly added to our ability to get product out the door in a particular month. I would say that...

At Jiffy.

At Jiffy – excuse me. When we first bought the company, they had some restrictions around how much they could actually build in a month. We've got a new, a new GM out there; and he's done a great job of increasing capacity, so we had a tremendous backlog; that was never the issue, but we had quite a bit of a lead time so. He has worked down some of that inventory, or excuse me, some of that lead time. Having said that, orders are still very good and I'd say there's also a second effect, which I believe I mentioned on an earlier call or we mentioned on an earlier call.

It seems like there's a bit of a halo effect around the Florida Pneumatic Aerospace product as a result of now being associated with the Jiffy brand. We're seeing a dramatic improvement in old line Florida Pneumatic Aerospace tools that we have been selling for years, but I think we got a little bit on the map now that we're part of the Jiffy brand and people are associating the Jiffy quality brand with Florida Pneumatic, which is not an – we did not expect that but it is absolutely happening out there. So I would throw those two things out there as also part of this.

And while we're on Jiffy just a follow up, the Jiffy acquisition was planned, in other words when did it or when will it anniversary?

We bought the company in April I believe of 2017.

So we've already anniversaried this, so we're at a higher year-over-year level post-acquisition?

Not dramatically.

That is correct.

Dramatically.

That's why it was...

I'll just say it one other thing that they had a reasonably nice backlog when we bought the company. That backlog has increased fairly substantially since we bought the company.

Right. So the feel that's why I asked about and you've now reinforced the issue that this is a sustainably higher level of activity. And can you comment at all in terms of the prospects for future growth because on prior calls I've asked about this and you said you know what you said, one, you know time is going to tell because these are generally long tail or long duration RFPs to get designed into programs. Have you seen any programs where your tools have been accepted into or designed into programs yet?

All I can tell you is our backlog is at almost a record high for the company. I can also tell you that we as Joe mentioned are producing more than they had before we bought the company and before we hire a new general manager, made some changes with capital equipment. So it's a function of if we get orders and we have a big backlog right now and we don't see any reason why orders won't continue at the rate that we've been experiencing in the last six months or so. Joe, do you want to add anything?

I would also add that we are – we do plan on adding a fairly not insignificant number of new offerings to live throughout 2019. So we would expect to have – we fully expect those to be accepted in the market by our current customer channel.

Got it. And is there – can you discuss – Pneumatics is a small product line acquisition that was purchased more recently. Can you discuss where that sits inside of Hy-Tech. Any crossover that's going on between the Pneumatics products and your Jiffy customers and the Jiffy products and the Pneumatics customers having tend to have been more I don't know if they were more hobbyist versus the big airframe manufacturers for Jiffy?

I'll let Joe put more color into what I'm going to say. But the Pneumatics acquisition which was a very small product that purchased for us has not borne any fruit that we were hoping it would yet. Having said that, we are – it's a much more engineered – highly engineered product and so it goes to weigh more scrutiny before people push the buttons and buy it. We're talking to the biggest aerospace companies on today and we're hoping in 2019 to have some traction there but there's nothing that we can tell you right now that is meaningful. They're doing the business that they did when we bought them which is insignificant and always was and all that stuff, but I expect – we expect and hope that in 2019 we'll have something but it's been a very slow go up to this point. Anything you want to add to that?

I would just add that beginning in January we have concrete initiatives that will be begun where we will be marrying up the resources of between Florida Pneumatics, Jiffy and Hy-Tech to go after the Aerospace market. So fully expect that it bears some fruit but it will be a few more quarters before we have must to say about it, but plans are placed and will be launched.

And when Richard you talked about how to-date so far the Pneumatics product lines not exhibited the certain kind of growth or synergy but it was exhibiting the cash flows that it was when you bought it. Based on the cash flows of the product line when you bought it and the price paid, can you give a little bit of a feel for the hurdle rate or the – that you're getting adequate returns on the purchase so far not counting obviously hope for growth opportunities?

We've already returned to the shareholders of multiple of the purchase price.

Awesome. All right. I'll back out. I have other questions please come back to me.

I don't believe there is anybody else on it.

Okay, then I'll ask another set and maybe someone else will get brave and hit the button.

Sure.

On The Home Depot side we have the new and improved line of Pneumatic tools you guys have shipped out, you've given the guidance that you know there was the – fill the product lines and until you get reorders and all that. There wouldn't be as high of a level as the surge of revenues from Q4, but do you have any visibility on the Home Depot consumer's acceptance of the newly refreshed product line yet?

No, we do not.

No, we just kind of like introduce and they have just introduced in the last 25 days or so.

Yeah. We generally get that but it's not yet.

Okay. And when you – when you get that information, is it just based on reorders or how does this work with Home Depot versus like Sears where you get to see the flow through to the channel and all that?

Andrew, I don't know to what detail, but I know at least at the gross level, we will know what their in-store sales are. I don't remember if we know it by tool-product, by SKU, but we certainly know how well it's doing, how well the program is doing at the store level?

There's no reason to expect that we won't do as well, at least as well if not better than we did with our other line. Having said that, when we went through the – I guess, what you want to call auction or rebidding of the line last year, they took certain – Home Depot, made a decision to also bring in other name brands without the Husky label on it of tool. So we are expecting a dilution of not dramatic, but maybe perhaps maybe 10% dilution of our Husky line to Home Depot because of that, but we don't know, I mean that's just our own projections, but we don't really know that yet. Joe, you want to say anything?

Yes.

So the other lines include, are they bringing in Craftsman?

No.

No, no, it's not Craftsman, it's Home Depot.

Yeah, I know, but I understand that.

No, Craftsman.

...but Craftsman is now separate, and I was wondering if Craftsman has posed a risk -

No, no, no.

No, to our knowledge there's no Craftsman product at Home Depot.

No, no, no. And I will remind you that we do sell Craftsman to Stanley Black & Decker.

Oh, you still do?

Since you're mentioning Craftsman, I'll just make mention – I didn't mentioned it in my comments earlier, but I don't think it's a – I don't think it should be ignored, I said in our press release that Sears, P&F, Florida Pneumatic came out of the Sears arrangement, which was lasting for the better part of 30 years I'm going to guess. Very, very hard we got rid of – we sold every piece of our inventory to them. We got paid every single dollar that we had, and we pulled out last year with the vision of what we thought was a ticking time bomb. So, we got out of there 100% whole, and on top of that, we're selling a little bit to Stanley Black & Decker as a pick up on top of that [indiscernible] (00:22:07).

Yeah. And subsequent to that, are you seeing growth in your revenues, or unit sales into Stanley Black & Decker on some credits in line?

No. No. No.

No. It's flat.

Yeah. And do you expect that eventually they would pair you out, or that you will have an ongoing relationship?

We don't really get that information from them, but our – we don't really know. It would be – I would be conjecturing. I would think that at some point they would do it themselves. But I could be wrong.

Okay. And touching on these product lines because this is generally the product line sub-segment that has issue with the tariffs. So, the first round of tariffs based on whether you negotiate, what you negotiate with Home Depot or your other distribution channels, you've been able to pass through those tariffs. Is that right? This is the first round.

It's the round from the summer. Yeah.

Yes. And the second round which has just been implemented according to your press release you don't have the visibility yet, or what's the timing, and the general feel you have regarding this more recent round which is a little bit more all-encompassing over many more products? Yes?

Yes, it's way more accomplishing, the first round was a very limited group of products of ours. The second round was essentially everything that we bring in from China and sell to Home Depot and others. And it's – I don't think we will have clarity to the beginning of the year, but it's definitely much more of an issue than it was with the first one without a question.

And we're in conversations with our vendors right now.

With our customers and our vendors.

Customers and our vendors. Yeah.

And obviously I would think your customers are faced with this with any generally offshore sourced vendor that they're using. So, there's something you think you would be able to work out something mutually amenable between you let's say and Home Depot?

So, again it's too early to tell, but we would expect that both parties want to try to work it out as best we can. But I would also note that anybody who buys these products, who sells these products are they coming from China essentially at a competitive price that we're at. The Taiwan versions are dramatically more expensive so I don't know if there's a better solution for anybody buying the product. Home Depot and we are committed to working through this and talking through it and we've had numerous conversations to be followed by numerous more conversations in the next 30 days, 45 days and when we have something to report, we will.

Yeah. At the next conference call, sure we'll have – we'll be able to give you full update.

Yeah. We'll give you certainly a full update by then that's months away.

And under the new provisions, when would the tariffs start to bite margin, Q1 margins?

What would they what?

When would the new broader line round of tariffs start to bite into your margin if you weren't able to pass things through, would that be Q1?

Go ahead. This quarter.

You'll see it in Q4.

Yeah.

It would be Q4 if it happens, okay.

Yeah.

But it has not happened yet for you?

No, no.

Okay. All right I got more questions. I'll back out.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we do have a follow-up question from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

All right. I'm going to ask another round, but I'll back out again if – before I take away too much oxygen. When you refer to the Industrial/catalog segment, is that where sales via Amazon are classified and fall into or what sectors are...

No...

...are your Amazon sales included in?

Amazon is part of Automotive.

Oh. Okay.

Industrial is a separate thing and Industrial is doing extremely well.

We sell – there's probably a few spill over Industrial tools that they make their way on to Amazon, but they're not that material. The Amazon relationship is primarily in the automotive tools.

Okay. And then to what do you attribute this nice growth in Industrial/catalog and do you feel that is at a new sustainably higher level or subjective blip?

The economy is certainly not hurting it. Businesses are doing better. That does certainly have a bit to do with it. And we're concentrating very much so on the Industrial sector for the last couple of years, and I do think, though we can't substantiate, I think that the fall-over from the Jiffy thing is having some small impact. Joe you want to add anything?

I would add that with oil at $70 or $80 a barrel. There's a fairly robust level of oil and gas exploration going on. So we're certainly taking advantage of that.

Now, that's Industrial/catalog; this is outside of Hy-Tech though, right?

That's correct.

This is Florida.

But Florida Pneumatic absolutely sells into oil and gas in the Industrial area.

All right, great. And then on the Automotive, that's dipped and to what do you attribute the decline to, and what if anything can you do to address the weakness or it's beyond actions management can take.

It's de minimis in the overall scheme of things. It's just a question of timing I'm going to guess. We're in the automotive field. And if they're busy, we'll be busy.

I think there has been some management ownership turnover change in two very large automotive distributors in the last 12 to 18 months. And I think that's had a little bit to do with some of the disruption.

And then overseas with Universal, is that mostly currency headwind or are there other unit – local currency unit sales volumes and issues impacting your European toehold.

Yeah, I would say the biggest impact there has really been the Brexit effect and the great deal of uncertainty that surrounds a lot of the economics in Great Britain and a little bit of currency, but the currency bounces around quite a bit. So, it's steady business. If I had to pick something that was giving us a little headwind, it's probably more currency than – excuse me – more Brexit than anything else. And we did – I know the numbers are big, but we do have quite a large share of the automotive market over there. So, it is difficult to grow that with the suite of tools we have right now just in the United Kingdom. So, we've got some initiatives around that that will begin in January and we're hopeful that we can move that forward a bit.

Now, with that large market share in England, you've talked to this as being kind of a foothold and with Brexit maybe even more important to put forth and gain beachheads, so to speak, if nothing more in distribution into Europe. Can you update us on any progress there or disappointments, successes?

There is really no progress there. But I can tell you that we're allocating some resources to that beginning in the first and second quarter of next year, so we'll have maybe more to say about that probably mid-year or something. We do have an executive we're bringing on board in the beginning of 2019 that will have quite a lot on his plate, Aerospace oversight over UAT operation, and we're pretty excited about him and his background.

This is an individual stationed in Europe.

Yeah. He'll be in Europe. So, we'll have more to say about that as time goes by, but we're pretty optimistic about his ability to help us out there across a number of products end market.

Okay. And on the previous call, you spoke of a suite of tools inside the AIRCAT technology or AIRCAT brand targeted towards body work and that the feedback was positive. But you'd have more take-away on it down the road. I don't know if it was a quarter or two I asked about it and I don't know if enough time has passed that there's an update on that progress or further feedback or if it's de minimis and not worthy of, you know...?

Yeah, it ends up being – it end up being a pretty niche product. We were hoping that perhaps it would expand dramatically. Unfortunately, a great deal of that goes. That market is dominated by a distributor, who I mentioned earlier, is having some issues with change-over in management and change-over in ownership. I don't think that that product is going to be really much to talk about. It will be a nice little product line maybe a few hundred thousand bucks a year, but it's just – we were hoping maybe it could be larger than that, but it does not look like it's going to have a big, big impact on the automotive operations. Still happy to have it, it generates a nice margin, but I think there are other things that are going to be more interesting to talk about going forward.

Okay. Moving on to Hy-Tech, I'll back out in the queue, but come back to me.

Don't back out, Andrew.

No one else's is on the air. Go ahead.

No one else? All right, here's Hy-Tech questions then, if you don't mind.

Sure.

So, on Hy-Tech, with a nice growth of OEM-Engineered Solutions and the expectations of even further growth, are there any more notable sub segments or industry subsectors within this OEM Solutions, which was much more of like a diversified industrial product line of different things for you or do you have a call out yet.

Well. I will mention a couple of the markets we're in. And then I'll comment on them. So, a couple of the markets that we've been able to penetrate with our motor technology, and just air power technology or pipe cleaning and cutting, food processing, logistics equipment, but these product lines or these channels have nothing to do with each other. And you know half a dozen, or a dozen more opportunities have nothing to do with these. So, I don't even know if it's worth mentioning, or it's not worth mentioning what they might even be because they're all over the map.

So, these air motors are inside of all sorts of things, and there isn't any one market where I could say, well just attack that because that where all the opportunities are, it's just not like that; they're everywhere. So, there's not much more to say. I suppose if we stumble across a market where the opportunities are in the millions, maybe it'll be worth calling out, but I think it's just going to end up being, and I don't mean this in a bad way just a hodgepodge of different applications for our technology and our know-how.

Okay. So, then when does the OEM-Engineered Solutions segment of these hodgepodges altogether get its own line. I mean, I appreciate your breakout in the press release, but I was wondering when does it go and grow to kind of a segment where it gets its own line item or breakout inside of your Hy-Tech tables, or is there a line item there for it already?

Yeah. We're considering that for next year, Andrew. We're just going to see how it goes for year-end, we're going to take a step back in along with seeing how things go with aerospace in Hy-Tech perhaps we'll have some more detail around what we call ATP now, but just sort of stay tuned on that. So it's certainly something we're looking at.

Okay. And with respect to I guess we'll call it the other areas of Hy-Tech, one of the issues was capacity constraint was with respect to manpower in particular finding the right supervisor so that you might consider adding another shift. Has the status of that changed and are you actually – out there actively seeking an additional supervisor, et cetera?

We are. We have not been able to find a second shift supervisor. Having said that, with the advent of some other people in middle level management in manufacturing, some improved processes and a new ERP system that should be up and running here before year end, we should be able to improve capacity without a second shift. Not that we wouldn't consider a second shift; we're continuing to consider, but we are – I don't know how constrained we really are right now at the moment.

Okay. And now, is there backlog you run or have backlog at Hy-Tech or is it all more shorter duration?

We have a backlog.

We've a backlog, it's a very sizable backlog. It's probably as sizable as I ever remember it being in the -- and my memory only last about three days, but honestly -- I'm just joking around but no we have a very, very substantial backlog in Hy-Tech.

And is that backlog, so it sounds like the backlog is up from last quarter or prior year or...

Dramatically, dramatically. Yeah, dramatically.

And when you...

And it's not off to be shipped tomorrow, it's not off to be shipped tomorrow, but obviously, and some of it's three months, six months.

Yeah, yeah.

But it's very promising...

Andrew, some of where that's come from is nailing down a couple of these accounts in the markets that I described earlier such that these customers are giving a 6 and 12 months blanket. So we know the product is not – it's business we're going to have going out for quarters, which is why – I mean we're happy to have it or we're happy to have it as a backlog but it's not a situation where we're concerned that the backlog is so high and product is late.

Yeah. And then I'll just say that with the Engineered Solutions like if you got an order then you first have to make the dies, I mean you have to first – it's a new product, it's a highly engineered product so it requires work behind the scenes on our end before we can actually do the shipping. So that's a couple of months lead time in that regard. But having said all of that we don't see for the foreseeable future our sales are diminishing at all in Hy-Tech.

That's good. And it has oil and gas returned to its former level or that's also a potential...

It has but it's – it has. But it's really honestly a very small – I'd say a much smaller by design in the last three years. By design it's a smaller part of our...

We have shifted out of this to the areas where we can grow as evidenced by the growth rate you see in OEM-Engineered Solutions.

Oh, yeah. No, no, no that's...

Our opportunity for growth there is just so much higher than it is for the oil and gas business, so much higher than it is for the oil and gas business, so that's where we're throwing all our talent right now.

Oil and gas was going to do what it does but has it returned to its former levels?

Yeah. I would say the answer, the business – the industry is but I don't think our business has, no.

Yeah. I would say that...

No.

Yeah. I'm not sure that it ever will.

I'm not sure that it ever will to be honest with you.

Because that – it kind of goes about saying that that market as it moves and evolves, you need to develop products to move and evolve with it; and we have systematically decided not to throw engineering at that, so all our products is capable. There are other products out there that perhaps are superior that we could match but again we would just be treading water. We've decided it's better to harvest that business and throw the engineers and the money at other things that can grow a lot faster.

Okay. Now during this quarter, the number of shares bought back under your 10b5-1 daily program was lower than prior quarters. And I'm just trying to get clarity because I believe the bulk of that is, is that the old authorization expired and the new authorization – there was a gap in time before the new authorization kicked in. So during the quarter ended September, right, can your General Counsel here just apprise us of when the old programs stopped that period of time you really weren't able to be in the market and then when the smaller amount of shares started to be acquired again during the September quarter?

Yeah. I believe these days are pretty close, August 23 or 24 the previous plan expired, and we were back in the market buying under the current plan September 17, I believe.

Okay. So about a one month of the quarter, of the three months you weren't able to be in there?

Correct.

Okay. But you're in there now, you're operative, you've got a bunch and presumably the month of October and index selling and everything else that went with it provided you your opportunity to get your daily limit which based on the volume. We're seeing the regular daily volume on the company's stock is around 800 shares a day is probably all you can do, but you can do that much, is that sound right?

Yeah.

Yeah, you're in the zip code of what we're able to do.

Yeah. Well, you know 800 shares a day, if you're able to do that every day pursuant to the other buyback limitations 4,000 a week, 16,000 a month, it's not chump change for this company small shares outstanding. So...

Correct. It'd be great. Correct.

... obviously I would think based on your comments of the cash flow generation of the company now, and its perspective cash flow generation, it would seem that this is a program you are as enthusiastic about as we are?

Yeah.

Yeah. Just want to confirm that. Talking about other areas of potential corporate allocation of capital to enhance the company's returns, can you update us a little bit on the where your see where you're folk – you mentioned on the prior call that your folks had a bunch of different synergistic tools area for acquisitions. But there was one particular area for acquisitions that you had been focusing on or working on, but didn't want to discuss it yet. Are you at a position yet to give a little more clarity on your areas of focus now, and if they continue to be where you were focusing or that particular jam has that opportunity has gone elsewhere?

Everything is – I mean, if there's anything to report, of course, we would be reporting it. So, then I really do – I can't add any color to that, and I don't want to be mysterious, but nothing to add on that. Having said that, we are moving – we always spend a lot of time on it, M&A work, and it's continuing. Nothing is dead, that we've been working on. But nothing is ready to have any kind of formal announcement or anything of that nature yet. I don't know if that answers your question. But that's the best I think we can do on that without [indiscernible] (00:44:32), I apologize.

But we – I just want to reiterate. We are active, we are out there. We are talking to people.

Yeah.

...that activity level continues.

Yeah.

Okay.

But we haven't – whatever we've seen is – we haven't seen companies in our little world big size, it's been like more smaller, more point to specific product lines, it's something – we haven't got anything really like a Jiffy level that we're working at.

Yeah. Well. I mean if you get at Jiffy level, you're buying a bunch of fixed assets to go along with it, and it's a big capital allocation that you're doing, it's not like you're sitting on a ton of cash; you're going to make your appropriately levered purchase of that. How do you just – that's nice and that would be accretive and you have your hurdle rates et cetera for that and we'd love for you to find another with Jiffy. But where or how do you see driving this company's earnings per share or let's get it to we'll call it pre-tax income or even EBITDA here. Okay. From its current return on asset that you have to a higher return on assets, historically – and as you know I've been a shareholder of this company for and at lower cost, thankfully, for more than two decades. And I've seen this company generate earnings per share and have earnings per share power far higher than where we are right now. What do you see outside of another accretive acquisition of the Jiffy and other areas of the business, is it an acquisition of a product line? Is it you have underutilization of capacity and driving more capacity utilization, revenue growth? What do you feel are the main drivers or opportunities for you and the board to grow this company's earnings per share higher than just $0.15 a share quarterly rate.

Yeah. I'll say a few things about that and then Joe can add anything he wants. Firstly, when we made a decision, the reason our earnings per share are down from what they were historically, and you know this because you've been here a long time. We made a very conscious and right decision to sell nationwide to sell – to be a more focused company. So we took out a lot of revenue and we took out a lot of earnings, but on the other side of it, we received a lot of cash and paid down all our debt, and we became a very strong balance sheet company due do that and it was strategically a better thing for us to do.

The way for us to move the company and grow the company is through acquisitions and through internal product extensions and product additions in our companies that generate more revenue, and that's exactly what we have been doing of late – of last couple of years and lately as well. Joe alluded to a few of them earlier and those are the ways through acquisitions and through internal product extension, and that's going to be the way we go. We're in the market that we're – there on with the markets that we're not in. We can maybe do acquisitions or through product extensions, we can get deeper into those markets, but we're in every market now. And with Jiffy, we got more into the Aerospace. It helped us. And AIRCAT helped us dramatically with Automotive, so we can't forget that either. So, Joe, you want to add anything to that or?

Everything you said is true. I would add also I think that there is a big opportunity for us in the long run in Europe. We really are just scratching the surface there. And if this person we're bringing on board is as good as I think, I think we'll have more than a toehold in Europe in a few years. And what comes along with that is, obviously, all the markets in Europe that we serve here in the U.S. and a very large Aerospace company headquartered in Europe that we're just trying to knock the door, knock the door down on.

So I think that – and then there's probably a market niche of a technology that we're – I know we'll get into what it is, but the technology we've got some expertise in that I think we possibly, possibly could roll up a number of entities into. But I might have more to say about that in a few quarters. So, I would just add, I'm really looking to Europe would be our big opportunity both in Aerospace and just in general in the next five years or so.

But my takeaway of what I'm hearing you is that higher earnings before were driven from a more highly levered balance sheet, and that we've de-levered with the disposition of what was generating those returns. But we haven't reallocated all of that capital, so to speak?

That's true. That's true.

So wouldn't that then argue for then prospectively a more aggressive buyback with what you have because we're saying that, well, because we've so greatly de-levered, our earnings per share is where it is and wouldn't necessarily return up to the $1.50 a share level without gearing?

But, Andrew, you just said a few minutes ago, we're buying what we can buy. So let's just take this to its logical conclusion. If we do this for another year, and then we re-up the program again, and even we re-up it two or three times, you can do the math yourself on how much we could possibly buy back. We're buying almost everything we can buy right now. So how could we...

Well, I mean, perhaps a tender, I mean, in other words just you're buying what you can under a 10b5 and I appreciate that, I'm not being critical.

Yeah.

But perhaps it is then a bigger chunk and taking the legal and appropriate steps one has to take to do a bigger chunk and or – Tim Stabosz, he seems to want to buy and sell this stock in blocks all the time. One day he likes you and the next day he wants to go move and buy something else. So there may be block opportunities out there. I had asked, frankly on the last conference call, you'd say you get back to me about it, is like who at UBS we can talk to about those kind of block opportunities to direct someone to or to go into that?

Andrew, I'll let Rich Goodman, our lawyer, say something, but before he does, we talk about this every single board meeting we have and we never ever don't talk about it, but it's a balance. You can appreciate. We talk about the dividend, which continues, and we've entertained different scenarios with the dividend, nothing about getting rid of it, but only should we go up with that or should we buy more stock. And we talk about every option available to us. And I think we're still of the mindset that we want to save gunpowder for if and when something really material comes along.

So, it's a balancing act that at some point we're going to – what we would say – we're not at that point yet, but at some point we may say we're not going be able to buy another company for now, so maybe we'll have a look at other things, but all I'm trying to say to you is every time we meet, we discuss it at great length. We don't just talk about it for three seconds and I'll let Rich finish.

I was just going to say one point. I think on the last call, we had suggested that if anyone has any opportunities around selling blocks of the company to reach out to the company and then we would then coordinate with UBS or whomever it might be, see if we can buy it back. That was the advice we gave last time.

Yeah. Although some people might be open to selling their blocks, but don't want to deal with you. And don't take this wrong, the last visible big block purchase was a buying out Stabosz with strings attached, right? He had to have the non-disparagement which by the way that's totally understandable but it also had a standstill arrangement embedded in it that prohibited him from coming back in and buying shares for three full years in the open market, which I personally, I am critical of that because you shouldn't want to get in the way of repurchases. You may want to either get in the way of disparagement, but I think people may not want to necessarily sell the block and involve the company in the sale of the block as much as they would either in a Dutch tender or a blind tender or being able to talk directly with UBS in just arranging for the block trade in an anonymous manner.

Yeah. As I said, we talk about it in each quarter, I mean we've a board meeting next month. We certainly would be talking about and we certainly will. But – and we asked as we said we asked last quarter anybody who knows of anybody that sells stock; maybe even, Andrew, you may want to sell some stock.

Well I don't really want to comment about that on the public call, but I would like you to give me a call. I have some thoughts for you about it.

Okay.

And I'll explain my thinking, but I would like to see the company's acquisition of shares to be at a pace and a size that you guys want it to be at because you professed that...

Okay.

... there are rules that have gotten in the way. And I think I have ideas that might be able to at least accelerate the pace to the level that you and the board are comfortable with that maybe at a level less than I'd like to see – I'm not saying it is, but it sounds like...

All right. I will...

You're not giving us the level you want...

We will have...

...and I have ideas for you.

Yeah. Okay. I don't mean to cut you short with it, but well let's go back to the – do you have any other questions about the quarter, but I will absolutely instruct Rich Goodman to call you before our board meeting and he can discuss what are the ideas you may have and we'll be happy to talk about it at that time, more than happy to do it.

Yeah. Well we'll probably call you offline even today. And then the ASC 606, when you provided the current revenues pursuant to ASC 606, remind me again if the prior year revenues that we're comparing to are adjusted or reflect that or what we should be doing so we're comparing apples-to-apples because I know you did provide some breakout in your press release.

Right. So prior year does not include – we did not restate the prior year. So if you want to – and I think this is – is it a new release or is it in the queue?

If you want to make the release.

Okay. If you want to make the adjustment for Q3, it's a 320 – yeah, so reduce the prior year. No hold one. Hold on a second. Right. Okay. So if you want to compare Q3 of 2018 to Q3 of 2017, you would have to reduce revenue in Q3 of 2017 $224 million and gross margin by $224 million to make it apples to apples. And then for the year, you would reduce of 2017 revenue at large by $645,000 to make it apples to apples.

Okay. All right. So that makes some sense. And the other thing is, I guess, the other final thing I have is you guys have improved your sentiment about the company's prospects here on the call. And in light of the fact that you kind of have something to talk about and what you've been doing, you've been delivering et cetera is that – has the topic come up again and is it a regular topic within the boardroom regarding the potential, selective investor relations activity whether it's a virtual Microcap web conference that talks about the company or if you go to some local small Microcap investment conferences where you're in front of Microcap focused investors to tell the company story to?

Again, I don't want to be dismissive not even a little bit, because so we weigh your words and your suggestions at all times. But when we talk every quarter about de-stock and all the other stuff, we talk about that as well, and the broad sentiment has not been to do that, but we talk about it every quarter. So if there's anything more to it that we think that this can be, of course, you'll know like everybody else, but I don't think the sentiment has been there to do that.

Having said that, Ranger, I had one or two conversations with some people running some conferences in the last few months after having conversation, I determined it just wasn't that will work for us, those particular conferences...

Because they're more self-serving.

... yeah, I mean, I'm happy to take calls from people that have ideas about conferences, but it's not as if we completely dismiss it. If someone told me something that was compelling about a conference, I'd bring it to the board and we'd have a conversation, but we haven't, we haven't thrown the idea out completely, but we don't seem to see a fit between what's out there and what might work for us.

Having said that, we absolutely discuss it at every meeting there [ph] without fail (01:00:29).

Yeah. Well offline, Joe, when you and I talk about the UBS thing, maybe let's talk about what the factors were that didn't make with whatever opportunities you were looking at attractive, and see if might have some ideas of what might be better meet your needs that might do this, because I think the practice of a management board putting together a non-deal road show, whether it's presented through – again whether it's presented through the Internet or a conference call like this, or if it's presented via in person, it's not a bad exercise to go through periodically anyway.

Yeah. Okay. Got any more questions in?

No other questions.

Okay. Thank you for your time. I really do appreciate it and we all do appreciate it and we all value your opinion, so thank you for your time.

Great. Thank you. Bye-bye.

All right.

That will conclude today's question-and-answer session. I will now turn the conference over to the company for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you everybody for listening today and for your comments and suggestions, and we will be in touch with the conference call in the fourth quarter early 2019. I hope everybody has a good holiday. Thank you.

That does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.