Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino, Jr. — Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the P&F Industries Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, the company's General Counsel. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries' third quarter 2015 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the strength of the retail, industrial, automotive, housing and other markets in which we operate. The impact of competition, product demand, supply chain pricing, our debt and debt service requirements, and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission including among others as described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and our subsequent filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by on or behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Thank you, Rich, and good morning, everybody. Thank you all for joining us this morning. As this earnings call precedes the release of our quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015, I will begin today's call as always with a brief summary of the company's results of operations and earnings per share for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30 of this year and how they compare to the same periods last year. I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key careful information and provide an update on key events affecting the company, after which time we will move to the Q&A session.

Once again, however, before I begin, I wish to remind all of you on the call that the purpose of this call is to discuss and review the company's third quarter results for 2015. As such, I ask kindly request that any questions are asked focus on our results only. Appreciate your help.

The company's consolidated revenue for the three-month period ended September 30, 2015 was $21,678,000 compared to $22,932,000 for the third quarter of 2015 – of 2014, excuse me. I wish to note here that as has been mentioned on previous earnings calls and stated in our filings with the SEC, we elected not to ship certain promotional type products to Sears this year and it was a third – it's usually a third quarter event. This decision was the primary cause for the revenue shortfall. Additionally, promotional type orders shipped during this quarter generally the Home Depot, which were shipped last year did not ship this year. Both of these customers are included in Florida Pneumatic's retail category which is within our Tools group.

For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015, the company's revenue increased to $64,064,000 from $57,132,000 during the same period last year. Current revenue is broken down by segments as follows. Our Tools group revenue for the three-month period ended September 30, 2015 was $15,924,000 compared to $17,865,000, the cause of which I just explained. The decline in retail revenue was partially offset by increased revenue from Florida Pneumatic's automotive product line and increased revenues at Hy-Tech.

The Tools group year-to-date revenue was $46,541,000, increasing from 2014's nine-month total of $41,749,000. The improvement was driven primarily by the addition of the AIRCAT product line during the third quarter of 2014 and to a lesser degree UAT and ATSCO. Our Hardware group, which today consists of only Nationwide, had third quarter 2015 revenue of $5,754,000, up from $5,067,000 reported for the third quarter of 2014. This 13.6% increase was driven primarily by Nationwide's Fence and gate hardware products. We continue and we will – we intend to continue our current strategy which is the – to develop new innovative products and accessories for this product area.

The company's consolidated gross margin for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 was 36.3% and 37.2%, respectively, compared to 35% and 36.2% for the same periods in 2014. Specifically for the Tools group, third quarter and year-to-date gross margins were 35.4% and 36.4%, compared to 33.4% and 34.9%, respectively, for the same periods last year.

The improvement in the Tools gross margin was primarily driven by the added automotive tools revenue. Our Hardware group's gross margin for a three-month period ended September 30, 2015 was 38.8% compared to 40.6% during the same period last year. Its gross margin for both nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 were 39% and 39.7%, respectively. A contributing factor to the three- and nine-month decline compared to the same periods in the previous year was Nationwide's decision to service a lower gross margin OEM customer.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 was $5,962,000 and $18,510,000 compared to $6,438,000 and $17,221,000 for the same periods last year. [indiscernible] (00:06:33) as a percentage of our total revenue, our third quarter 2015 SG&A declined to 27.5% from 28.1% and for the nine months as a percentage of revenue was 28.9%, down from 30.1% for the same nine-month period a year ago.

Significant factors contributing to the quarter-over-quarter change include a reduction of $410,000 in our professional fees and transaction expenses, due primarily to the three acquisitions that we acquired – three companies we acquired in 2014, with a minimal activity this quarter; and two, our variable expenses declined $173,000 – $172,000; and three, an increase of $75,000 in depreciation and amortization.

The company's interest expense for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2015 was $173,000 and $566,000 compared to $158,000 and $335,000 for the same periods last year. These increases are due to the use of funds during the third quarter of 2014 to complete the three acquisitions. Included in our three- and nine-month 2015 interest expense is amortization of debt financing cost of $28,000 and $83,000 compared to $23,000 and $67,000 in the same periods in 2014.

Lastly, in connection with the Universal Air Tool Company Limited, or UAT acquisition as we call it, there was a possibility that we could pay as conditional consideration or an earn-out, a maximum of £250,000 to the Sellers. The earn-out is computed on UAT's net earnings, adjusted for among other things, interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, for the period from date of acquisition, which was July 29 of last year to the first anniversary date which was July 29 this year. At the time of the acquisition, we believe that based on a range of possible outcomes, it was more likely than not that the UAT would achieve the amount of adjusted net income that would empower Sellers of UAT the maximum out, which at that time when converted into U.S. dollars was $425,000.

At June 30 of this year, we adjusted the estimated contingent consideration payable to the Sellers to $224,000. Subsequently, at the end of the anniversary, we and the Sellers have agreed that the contingent shall be £193,435 or approximately $299,000, which we paid in October of this year. As a result of finalizing the earn-out, we made a final adjustment to the accrued earn-out liability, which caused us to record $750,000 as other expense in a three-month period ended September 30, 2015.

The net income of – the net impact of this earn-out was a non-taxable gain of $126,000 during nine-month period ended September 30, 2015. Taking all the above data into consideration, our income before taxes increased 15.6% to $1,655,000 from $1,432,000 for the same three-month period in 2014, and our income before taxes to our nine-month period ended September 30, 2015 increased 56% to $4,853,000 from $3,110,000 for the same period a year ago.

Lastly, our net income for the three-month period ended September 30 of this year improved 28.7% to $1,50,000 from $816,000 reported during the third quarter of 2014, with our nine-month net income improving 69.9% to $3,143,000 from $1,850,000 for the same period last year.

And lastly, our basic and diluted earnings per share for the three-month period ended September 30 of this year were $0.29 and $0.28 compared to $0.22 and $0.20 per share compared to the same period in 2014. Our basic and diluted earnings per share for the three-month period ended September 30 of this year were $0.87 and $0.84 compared to $0.50 and $0.47 per share for the same period in the prior year.

At this time, I'll ask Joe Molino to provide us some insight into the cash flow. Joe?

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during the first nine months of 2015 were $1,144,000 compared to $713,000 during the first nine months of 2014. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2015 were: depreciation and amortization of $1,279,000, amortization of other intangible assets of $971,000, a reduction of the contingent consideration of $126,000, stock-based compensation of $72,000, and amortization of debt issue costs of $83,000. Significant components impacting our cash provided by operating activities were increases in accounts receivable and accounts payable of $1,548,000 and $1,064,000, respectively.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. And lastly, I would also like to acknowledge all of our employees and the management of our company's for doing – or continuing to do such an outstanding job. All of us continue to work hard and believe in our company's products and customers. And with our hard work and perseverance, P&F will continue to do its utmost to improve performance and shareholder value.

That's the end of our report today. We'd be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Andrew Shapiro at Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi, Guys. I got several questions. I'll ask a few and then jump out into the queue if someone is behind us.

Thank you.

Regarding the ATSCO Hy-Tech integration, which seems to be the only of the three acquisitions where you still got work to be done, what's left to be done? Because the timing seems to be a little bit behind your expected schedule and I'm wondering why it does seem delayed and when you expect to get to your milestones.

I'll let Joe answer that, Andrew. But it's not behind schedule now. We have said on the last two calls, I believe, that we were looking at the end of the year as the – really as the target for us to be complete. And I would say that we're essentially for all intents and purposes complete now, not to say that there were not things along the way that can still pop-up on an ongoing basis, but we have our arms around it and the integration is essentially done at this point.

But Joe, you may want to add a little color to that?

Yeah. Just, what you're saying – before Joe goes on, what you're saying is what I expected, but your press release implied that it was going to be longer. You didn't mention that, okay, it's now done here in the middle of the fourth quarter. So, that's, that's good to hear. But go ahead, Joe.

Yeah. I don't see that, but we'll look at that, Andrew...

Let me just kind of give you a little more detail. We inherited quite a few product lines in that acquisition. And while we're shipping the bulk of what was being shipped maybe just prior to the transaction, there are a number of SKUs and tools that we're working through reintroducing ourselves to that customer base, which had been, for lack of better words, somewhat abandoned. And as we work through those and make those tools for the first time, I guess, I would call that continuing or you could call that continuing integration. But I'm not sure if it's that black and white. Having said that, I think the bigger story for the quarter is not so much where we are in the ATSCO transition, but really the headwinds we're seeing in oil and gas, frankly.

Yeah.

Yeah. I would just add to that, Andrew, that the machining problems, the machine problems, the labor problems, the training of our labor and all those things at this point are pretty much, again, not to minimize that we always have work to do, but we've – and the biggest part of that is done. But, of course, what Joe was alluding to in the ATSCO and in the Hy-Tech regular businesses, the oil and gas business, which is down in the 40% or something like that and we're seeing that in much, much slower orders.

Okay. Yeah. Just why I drew that conclusion, I'm glad to hear what you have to say and it is consistent with what I expected, but your press release says and it's as of today's date, we continue the process of incorporating it and it's difficult to predict exactly when the entire suite will be produced, which implied to me that you're not producing the entire suite.

Well, I think that is true, but again some of those products weren't even being sold when we bought the company. So, maybe we're – I – we're splitting hairs on the words, but...

Okay.

...I think for what we bought, we were comfortable with what we're selling in. We have lots of opportunities for products that were dusting off and cost savings that could be generated for some of the bread and butter products they were making. So, I'm not sure there's a perfect answer to when we're done. Maybe we're never done.

Yeah, yeah. I would say, maybe our wording is slightly misleading. But when we first bought the company, we're concentrating on our biggest customers and that – and so now we're getting – as we've got that under control, now we're getting onto our smaller customers which were also very important to us. And so, we're making certain products for the first time. It doesn't mean that we're not equipped to do it at this point, but it perhaps is a bad use of words.

Okay. And then, I have another integration question here and I'll back out. But with the integration done in Universal and Exhaust acquisitions, and pretty much you're here in ATSCO, what you kind of explained your next steps there. But with Universal and Exhaust, what additional steps, if any, are you now doing to pursue to build on and accelerate growth? You would talked about simulation of engineering, strengths of certain acquired products was going to take a back burner to the marketing and sales resource allocation, but where do things stand now and your thoughts on the timing of such simulation and potentially new product development, et cetera?

Well, new product development is underway using the Exhaust technology platform, we've got ongoing projects right now to not only incorporate the technology in different brands, but what we've also discovered, to our pleasant surprise, that in situations where the AIRCAT products satisfied the technical specifications for something in the Industrial Tool segment, we're just selling that product straight away. As an AIRCAT tool, even though that wasn't the original market, but we are very happy with the reception we're getting. So, we're getting what I'll call some spillover of that brand outside of automotive, which we're excited about. So, that's all continuing and we'll continue. I'm not sure does that answer your question?

Yeah, yeah. No, it does. And lastly, and that same thing is, you guys talked about introducing the AIRCAT and NITROCAT, et cetera, into the U.K. market, into the UAT; and as a distributor, it would be generally a substitution or replacement of legacy third-party product, so it wouldn't necessarily be a revenue growth item. But basically from being outsourced in a sense or third-party to internally produced, you thought you would have a margin benefit from it. Have you seen that replacement maintain the revenue streams and have you seen than the expected margin benefit from that, I guess, move over?

Yeah, yes to both. Again, we are seeing both. We're actually flat out replacing some of the tools that were there with an offering from AIRCAT. In some cases, it's an AIRCAT tool that doesn't have a direct legacy product associated with it. So, that is incremental. It's a little hard to know, which of those is the bigger driver, because if you've replaced the tool with an old tool and the sales are slightly more, is that the market changing, is that the tool is driving it, I don't really know. But we do know that the margins are better with this increasing portion of the sales, they are being driven by AIRCAT tools inside of the UT product suite.

Got it. I'll back out. I have other questions on the division.

Yeah. Andrew, you don't need to back out. There's no one else on the queue, so you can keep going as of now – as of now.

I wish I had a company. But I'll ask some more and I'll give you another shot at telling me about that.

Okay. Thank you.

On the individual divisions, well, Hy-Tech's year-over-year revenue growth was almost 8%. Do you have a feel for what is accountable to the acquisition and what is organic growth or organic decline?

Sure. I mean, Joe, you can answer this specifically.

Well, we don't report that information. It's, again, a little confusing when you look at the total because of the tremendous drop off we're seeing in anything related to oil and gas, which pretty much affects almost to every other part of the business and also affects the ATSCO product line. So, ATSCO is not making up for ultimately the fall off we're seeing. I mean, this – year-to-date, it has, but the headwinds seem to be continuing, and we certainly have some concern that the ATSCO product line growth is going to get lost in the fall off with everything else.

Okay. Well, in light of that, you have competitors, and P&F has a pretty strong financial balance sheet and financial position. Are you – in light of the weak markets that your competitors are facing just like we are and our strong position, are you seeing any weakened competitors or synergistic acquisitions to further enhance Hy-Tech's margins and eventual growth?

I mean, we are among the smallest of the players in the markets we serve, unfortunately. So, while there may be a niche here or there, and we're just maybe at the point where we're starting to open our eyes, nothing is on the horizon.

But our competitors who, as Joe says, essentially are much bigger than us. They are experiencing worse, worse results than we are with the oil and gas situation.

Right. Any of them interested in maybe divesting and letting you pick up some....

Well, we had – we've had conversations with couple of them, but there's nothing that is very -- that we're focused on at this point.

And there's nothing....

...that was ongoing.

There's nothing of a size that we could just bite off and consume. These guys are just...

...so much bigger than us.

...multiples of our size. I mean, anything they would spin off would be too big for us to purchase.

Yeah, we're a niche player, so if anything would be just the opposite.

No. You know the right price, I guess, you ought to consider it, even though we just bought it.

Yeah, I guess so.

Again, we are really just getting to the point to think about that again and it's not been a focus to this date, but as we move in – go ahead.

As I stated – I don't mean to interrupt you, Joe, but as I stated on a couple of other calls, we really want to take this year to take the three acquisitions and make sure they will all really comfortably integrated into our business. And now we're getting to the point that we will start looking at that stuff, though, we do always look though we've been looking like with half an eye, but now we're going to start looking more intently I guess.

Okay. And regarding your comments about the major Hy-Tech customer that may be exploring overseas sourcing for certain products, do you feel this is a temporary or a permanent move with that sourcing?

I think it's kind of like – we don't really know what's going through their head, but – and we hear all different things from different parts of their company. So it's what you believe and what you trust and all that stuff. But if they do it, I would think, it would be a strategic move for them, but it's conjecture on my part. I don't know if you feel any differently, Joe.

We don't have enough data from them. [indiscernible] (00:24:46).

So, you've said certain products. How much of the selection do you expect they might move away if they did?

It's at least half.

Okay. And when and if this major customer drops below the percentage of required separate disclosure, to which category within the Hy-Tech segment disclosure will this revenue and margin than be allocated to, ATP, Hy-Tech machine or other?

ATP.

Okay. Regarding – in the Tool side still, regarding Sears, in you electing not to sell certain promotional type products this past quarter that you did in prior years, has that type of election by P&F been made before from time-to-time without disruption of the relationship or is this a new dynamic?

Well, first of all, it's not a – it's not – it was not for the quarter. It's a yearly product, but it's usually for once a year in this quarter, in this past quarter. So, that's what it is. And we made the decision a year ago with them and it didn't affect anything. Actually, our relationship was quite good there. They have a new supplier of that particular product and they're fine and happy and they're happy with us.

We have had from time-to-time discussions about promotional items that we've chosen not to pursue with them over the 30 years of the relationship. So, I don't think they hold it against us, so to speak.

And it goes the other way also, they come in and out of promotional items as well.

Oh, yeah. It's like Home Depot, for example. But I...

Exactly, it's just like Home Depot and yeah, so I mean...

Just you guys highlighted this time that you elected in and I didn't recall in my many years as an investor the direction from the election and I didn't know if it was a new dynamic, that's all.

I think it is, but I think it was really a lot of the fact that it was a large chunk of credit in a very short period of time and we just chose – with the margins that were associated with it, we just thought better to be a prudent conservative or, however, whatever the word is you want to use.

The only other thing I would add is, in that particular case, the concern that might exist about handing over that opportunity to a competitor, is it really the case, because there was a partner involved in that transaction who's really the one managing the factories dealing with that particular product. And Sears just went direct with them and that partner is not a threat to our operation there.

Okay. And no program – promotional program this Q3 was what you described in your script regarding Home Depot. We're now in the middle of Q4, is that the same kind of status, is that – if you're going to ship for presumably the holidays or book in order that it would be Q3 or sometimes does that promotional program occur in Q4 and has what occurred this quarter?

There is no other promotion that I'm aware of. It would have shipped now.

Yeah.

Those decisions are made many quarters ahead at all, I mean, and there isn't anything of consequence.

And I might mention to you, Andrew, that this product are not selling, you should know it's not an air tool. It was an accessory type of an item, it's not our main business or focus of our business.

Okay. Here is – but again, is anyone in the queue?

I wanted you back out, because right now we don't.

All right. The operator let us know.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go back to Andrew Shapiro.

Great. In describing your other revenues, Berkley Air Filters and other OEM parts, this is still a question to your Tool segment, you said the declines were as a result of a decision to place greater emphasis on expanding other portions of Florida Pneumatic. Does that mean less resources are being deployed to promote sales or why our organic revenues down?

The answer is yes. I mean, we've gotten a person or two that spreads their time across filters, Berkeley in industrial and we felt that the opportunity was greater in industrial, especially with this infusion of the AIRCAT brand as a possibility in there. The opportunities are just so much larger, and we're starting to really build a bit of a brand, so that really – one gentleman has really shifted a great deal of his focus. And plus, there's just not as great an opportunity to grow those things. They're really more of a harvest mode at this point. We're happy to have the revenue and the associated margin, but his time is better spent with much larger opportunities.

Okay. And...

And I should mention to you Andrew that this whole sector that you're discussing is, on an annualized basis, or the nine-month basis, or for the quarter, it's $300,000 on $11 million – almost $12 million.

Yeah.

So it's not a big dramatic thing.

No.

Just you keep it in perspective. Yeah.

I'm just trying to follow...

Right. [indiscernible]

(00:30:32)

Nothing, everything is not important. Not that everything is not important, but I'm just trying to give your perspective, that's all.

Okay. Now, you discussed in the past quarters new Aerospace tool that you rolled out and was received well on the rollout. Has the tool performed well post rollout as well as you've hoped since then? And more importantly, can you discuss any other notable new product rollouts in the Tool segment that have recently taken place or in the works?

Yeah, that product is performing as expected. These things take a while to gain acceptance, both at the national level for some of these manufacturers as well as at the local manufacturing plants. In some cases, the central purchasing arm will dictate what can be bought, in many other cases, the local manufacturer, local facility makes their own decisions. But it takes a while it took a while. It's taken a while with every tool we've introduced, but we're excited about this one because there's a very – a competitive and sizable part of the market that is relatively unchallenged. But we're comfortable with the technology that we've got there and we're confident over time we're going to take some of that share. There are plenty of other things in the works, but nothing that of a size that I'd like to talk about lots of nice sized projects. But yeah, there really is nothing to talk about. But as soon as there is, we're happy to discuss it. We'll discuss it as soon as it moves into the channel, but probably before you really see the impact of the sales. But there you know there are many projects we're working on.

Few hardware questions, you discussed marketing efforts for Nationwide products outside of the U.S. What regions or countries are you focusing on and has currency movements with those countries been an important issue for you to deal with?

I mean, the country of sale outside of the United States is Australia. Currency has not been a big factor in that situation for a decade for however long we've been there. The price – you don't see the – there's a pretty tight band around the U.S. dollar, Australian dollar exchange rate. So it's not really a factor.

Okay. Find some investments down there, I don't know this last quarter, year-over-year you got pretty sizable currency shift.

Well, I believe we're getting paid in U.S. dollars. So, ultimately, I suppose if it moves too much against one party or the other, there'd be a renegotiation, but it has not moved that extent.

Maybe just potentially impact the volume you sell down there, though?

Yes it could. But we have not seen it.

Good. Your release is worded in a way that implied either or both of Nationwide's growth strategy, as you put it, focus on developing new innovative Fence and gate hardware and/or the marketing efforts outside the U.S. and I quote in your release "impact the performance of Nationwide's other product lines." Can you explain how or why you say that, is that again a personnel or resource allocation issue?

Yeah, same – almost the same answer that I gave you for Florida Pneumatic. We've got some smaller product lines there, patio and OEM. We're happy to have the revenue, but we just do not assign a lot of personnel to that, we don't assign a lot of engineering time to that, they're pretty much again in harvest mode.

And these are things that we say pretty much every quarter in our releases or Qs or something.

And if you were to go back in time, Andrew, to the breakdown, I forget how many years we've been breaking out the segment at Nationwide, you'll see that Nationwide Fence portion of sales is a fair amount more than it was five years ago. And the other two are less.

Yeah.

And that will continue.

All right. I have some more questions in the corporate side. But in case someone else is in the queue, would you want me to do?

You're still on, Andrew.

All right. So, you mentioned in in recent calls, including the last call, in terms of the timing, that incremental Investor Relations and Communications to address the company's below average evaluation multiple was to be a topic of the board meetings surrounding the annual meeting. Did that discussion take place and what if any were the action items to address this investor relations need?

No, it was not. It was discussed, yes, it was not. There was no action taken on it and it wasn't at the annual meeting, it was on our board meetings. And generally, the feeling is that the stock is performing nicely. When we have good earnings, the earnings come up and that there is very little value – there's very little float of our stock as of now. So the value that we feel that we would be getting out of spending certain amount of money to market where people don't really want to get into the stock because they are – they may – they feel I mean moreover too often, they feel they can't get out of the stocks with this. It's easy to get into it, but not so easy to get out of it. So it meets with resistance at the levels whenever we talk to people. So as of now – of course, we continue to look at it, but as of now we're not doing anything in that in financial marketing and if that's what you're asking.

Okay. Well, you don't have the benefit that I do seeing things but you should know that on 8 times your normal volume today, unfortunately the stock's off 15% and it's offered below $9 a share. So obviously from a valuation point of view and such, it's cheaper now. And in terms of maybe addressing that, you talk about in terms of a float. And I guess there's two things to put in front of and for consideration for the board regarding that is that, if the company as it de-leverage or de-leveraged or de-leveraging, were to institute a small but sustainable dividend stream, you would be creating a new incentive, a compensations so to speak for investors to buy and to hold that shares. And that would in and in of itself enhance liquidity as well as be an item that might be of strategic value.

Secondly, there are many funds that are limited and only allowed to invest in companies that are dividend paying companies. And so, a small sustainable dividend within the company would widen the buying population and thus the ability of others to get out the buying population that could participate and would be interested in the stock. So, it has in the last few meetings, the concept of the idea of establishing a small sustainable dividend, one taken place. And two, the items I've just described been part of the rationale as a pro for adopting a small dividend?

We have had these conversations, Andrew, at every single board meeting, probably going back for the better part of two years or more. I don't recall, but for a very long time. We all – everything you're telling us is that we've learned in economics and business 101. We all understand it. It's what it is. We understand it. We feel right now that the board has continually felt that it is not something they wanted to do, but we said, we were going to visit it again year-end, when we saw what our earnings and cash flow were going to be for this year with the new acquisitions layered into it.

And so, of course, on our meeting next month, we will absolutely discuss as we do with every meeting and in quite depth – quite some depth and we will act accordingly. And we talked about it at every meeting without one exception.

Because if your issue is flow, et cetera, this would certainly enhance again the liquidity and the population. And also if as the company is de-leverage the reinstitution of a company buyback plan where you guys are basically in a 10b5 or other status able to be and are in the market, again, that helps address the issue and the concern one that you've raised about, you can get in, but can't get out type of situation. So both from a dividend and a buyback perspective, they would and could address those issues. And frankly, as you do this efficiently and we attract in an appropriate valuation which should be somewhere in the teens, you start getting to the point that a small stock split of some sort actually might be appropriate and would also further address those issues?

Okay. So, Andrew, thank you for your comments and we talk about it regularly. We're taking a lot of time on this and I do understand what you're saying. I would tell you that if you look back as an investor, if you look back at the price of stock in the last year or last 18 months I think you should be very happy as I am as a big stockholder of this company.

No, I am looking at valuation multiple, Richard, I'm happy about the growth of the company.

Okay.

I'm happy about...

Andrew, I let you speak, so let me – Andrew, I let you speak, so why don't you let me speak now, please. Thank you. And so, we were pleased with that. We understand everything you're saying to us. We've been – we have been in buyback mode. Last year we bought a fairly sizable amount of stock and I exercised options over the market. At the times when I did it and we understand all of ramifications of what you're talking about. And as I said before and I'll say it again, I, as a larger stockholder, would be the biggest beneficiary of the dividend, me.

So, it's an easy thing for me to say yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. But if I don't think it's right for the shareholders and the company to – and the company itself, then I won't do it but I let – at every board meeting, I let the board had way on that conversation. I do not put my two-cents into it unless I am asked. I let them do it because I want to be – let it be an objective hands off kind of thing.

So, thank you for your comments. I understand it fully. Everybody on the call right now who's on the board and they're all on the call heard it as well. And we will absolutely – I can promise you faithfully that we will talk about it once again at the meeting next month. And we do not take your words lightly but we are well aware of your words and we understand it and I'm not saying we did it in a disagreement about it. But – so, we appreciate it. And anything else you'd like to talk about, we're happy to talk about.

Yeah. Well, the only other thing I would want to talk about because you're coming off a little overly defensive and unnecessarily...

I'm not being defensive, I just want – when I want to speak I want to speak. That's – I let you do it also as well.

But, yes, the stock price has appreciated, although the stock price has really not appreciated at the pace that at the operating performance has appreciated or frankly it should appreciate at a better rate because our valuation multiple of our company is still low and arguably lower not fully reflecting the operating growth of the company and our valuation multiple in effect is the cost of capital to the board and to the company here. And if our cost of capital is high, the amount of accretive opportunities in your acquisition strategy unfortunately is a narrow population, if we could have a better valuation moldable, you have a wider population of accretive opportunities to select from in your acquisition strategy. So, we're all [indiscernible] (00:43:29) and I'm providing analysis that any and all board members ought to be thinking about or commenting on similarly. So that's all coming from here. It's not a [indiscernible] (00:43:38).

Okay. Got you. Got you and appreciate it. Thank you.

Okay. I have no other questions. Thank you.

Okay.

Okay.

Operator, any other calls?

And we have no other questions at this time.

Okay. So, thank you all for staying calm on the call today and we look forward to speaking to you after our year-end numbers are released. Have a good day and a good holiday everybody.

And that does conclude today's conference. Again, thank you for your participation.