Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino, Jr. — Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the P&F Industries, Inc. 2020 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, the company's General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning. Welcome to P&F Industries' full-year 2020 conference call. With us today from management are: Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management including those related to the company's future performance and outlook are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: Risks relating to the global outbreak of COVID-19 and other public health crises; exposure to fluctuations in energy prices; debt and debt service requirements; borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility; disruption in the global capital and credit markets; the strength of the retail economy in united States and abroad; risks associated with sourcing from overseas; importation delays; customer concentration; impairment along with assets and goodwill; unforeseen inventory adjustments or change in purchasing patterns; market acceptance of products; acquisition of businesses; regulatory environment; and information technology system failures and attacks; and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including among others, as described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

And with that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning, Richard. Thank you all, everybody here on the call today, for joining us this morning on our full-year 2020 results. I hope and pray that all of you are doing well under these continuingly difficult circumstances with COVID-19. Although the vaccine rollout, which will certainly help control the spread of disease, is under way, we are still looking to get past the harsh effects of this global pandemic. Lastly, our thoughts and prayers are with all of those affected by COVID-19, in your family, and friends or anybody else around.

I would like to direct here – on business matter, I'd like to direct your attention to the company's press release that was released earlier today, which includes the company's December 31, 2020 balance sheets, and statements of operations, and statements of cash flows and discussions related to the company's 2020 results of operations. This release should materially answer most of your questions.

In order to make better use of everyone's time here this morning and be mindful of the purpose of this conference call, I would like to note the following two items, as I've said in the past. Firstly, as we have done for the prior two conference calls, and looking to become our standard practice from this point forward, we will move directly to a question-and-answer session and not restate what is already in this morning's release.

And secondly, please be aware that we will only be answering questions directly relating to the company's results of operations and financial conditions. We must insist that you adhere to this procedure. Management will not be entertaining any questions that go beyond the scope of this call.

And with that, all in there in what I've said, we'd be happy to answer any pertinent questions anybody may have at this time. Orlando, please open up the line. Thank you.

Absolutely. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to our first question from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management. One moment, please.

Hi. Thank you. Can you hear me?

Yes. We hear you fine.

Great. Several questions. I'll ask a few, and go back out into the queue, in case there's others. First and foremost, I wanted to find out or ask if you guys – is there a particular reason, or why is it in your fourth quarter release, you only provide fiscal year end, and we can't easily determine and calculate here the fourth quarter results without having to go to the year-to-date nine months and try to back things out, and reverse engineer it? And most companies break out the fourth quarter. Is there a particular problem or reason that P&F chooses not to do that?

Yeah, Andrew. We've read your letter this morning. And we've gone through this with you, and we've gone through this our lawyers and our accountants. And we believe the information contained in our press release is totally appropriate for a company of our size. And our lawyers and our accountants have told us, without question, that they were. So, that being said, happy to answer any questions, but that's – we've been advised that, that's the way that it's done for a company with our size or much bigger companies, actually even. So, that's why we do it.

Well, maybe you should widen our scope of research. The other companies do the fourth quarter and they break it out. I just don't understand that there was a particular problem to do so.

Yeah. So, wanted to answer [indiscernible] (00:06:16) Andrew. We've given you the answer. Let's go on with your question, because that's what we've been advised to do, and that's how we proceed.

Okay. I'm just wondering why they advised that. Anyway...

Go ahead, if there are any questions you have.

Can you – things have evolved on this. I'd like to get a feel for where operations currently stand. These are questions with respect to the impacts of COVID-19. It sounds like in the background, you're still working from home. The dog's there.

I wanted to understand where do operations currently stand for the company, both at its headquarters, which sounds like you guys might be working remotely, and in each manufacturing facility. And what is the return-to-normal plans and expectations of timing you guys have, or what is the new normal for the company headquarters, as well as your few manufacturing facilities?

Go ahead, Joe. You can answer that, I guess.

Sure. With respect to the subsidiaries, we're fully staffed at the operational level. We are fortunate that we can socially distance and compartmentalize people fairly easily at each of our locations. So, there really, at this point, is next to no impact on our production capabilities.

People in offices where things are a little tighter alternate shifts. And there's a certain schedule that we follow to try to maintain social distancing, have a few people in tight quarters as possible. The same goes for New York. We do not – we're probably – we're in the office 60% of the time. But again, we try to minimize the – we never have the full staff in here at once.

And that will probably be the – I mean, I don't want to project too far forward, because I can't tell you what the path of the virus is going to be and where we're going to be on vaccinations, but I would imagine that, that will ease back into full – everyone being in the office at some point. But for now, it's a little too early to say exactly when that'd be – when that'll be, but that is certainly the plan. So, it's not affecting our ability to do our jobs.

Okay. And do you have an estimate of the percentage of the P&F workforce presently vaccinated with one shot or are fully vaccinated? And has the company initiated or considered initiating financial incentives or bonuses for employees who do get vaccinated?

Go ahead, Joe.

We have not considered that. As I said, right now, the impact on our ability to generate production and ship products is next to nothing. So, I'm not sure what that incentive would do other than make people feel better. And obviously the more people vaccinated, the better. But the impact on our operations is really nonexistent...

It's fairly minimum. In the corporate office, three people have been vaccinated at this time. And the restrictions are the age of the people and the rules in the state. So, we can't – we have to adhere to the rules like everybody else, like you, and Joe and everybody else. But as I said in the – that we will consider it best we can, with what's going on but – and towards – as far as the company itself, really very minimal impact, thankfully. And all our companies are really operating fairly uneventfully at this time.

Okay. And my final question on the COVID-19 issues, and I'll back out into the queue if – but I had questions for your divisions and product lines. I think you commented in your press release regarding the product demand perspective and your sales impacts regarding COVID-19. Are you experiencing – and what types of steps are you doing to mitigate any negative experiences from impacting your supply chain, which we are increasingly reading about, impacting manufacturing companies?

Yeah. We – Joe can add on to this also. But we're having – which I'm sure you read about every day in the newspapers. We're having the same problems that everyone else is having in terms of delays in shipments coming from China. Now, the latest [indiscernible] (00:11:29) is the Suez Canal is shut down, and everything is all backed up there.

But way before that, we're adding six, eight weeks to deliveries, kind of like in a regular standard. And even when they come into the country, be it Miami, or be it on the West Coast, they can – the shipments can sit there for quite a period of time, days, week, even two weeks before customers [indiscernible] (00:11:56) go. And that's something that's been going on with us for several months now.

And people I know in other businesses are finding the exact same thing, people who I know in the shipping business, and I know several of them big businesses. They're all very, very frustrated with what's going on, how it's happening. And it seems to be a very convenient excuse whenever things don't work out, they blame it on COVID. So, I mean, it may be right in many cases, but I can't imagine why, now, China is open as it is, it's not getting any better yet.

And sort of, Joe, do you want to add to that?

I mean, I would just add that the impact on the importation is primarily with Florida Pneumatic. Hy-Tech doesn't have a significant portion of inputs coming from Asia. As a result of having a several-tier distribution system, however, ultimately, there isn't really a significant impact on ultimate sales in that. For example, Home Depot, there's distribution centers we ship to, and then there's inventory at the stores. So, customers are not showing up at the stores, not being able to get product because, again, there's several levels of inventory in the industry.

Are there other steps you're taking to mitigate the effects of this continuing slowdown in some supply?

Well, we're – go ahead, Rich.

Yeah. Go ahead, Joe. [indiscernible] (00:13:37) Go ahead, Joe.

I mean, we're projecting ahead as best we can. We're making sure that we're providing additional safety stock. And we're keeping a very tight control over the inventory levels and working with suppliers where we can. There are also alternatives with respect to where ships can land. In the past, we've been able to redirect things, should that become necessary. Right now, it hasn't become necessary. We have several levers we could pull to move where ships actually land, and possibly, from there, go over land to get to us. So right now, it hasn't really impacted the business in a significant way, but we're obviously keeping an eye on it

Okay. I have several questions...

Yeah. We've increased our safety [indiscernible] (00:14:44) a little bit, but it's a balance. We don't want to be overly – we don't want to buy too much stuff. It's money, and we have to balance it, but we've been doing a fairly good job of staying ahead of it for the most part. Go ahead. I'm sorry.

Okay. I have several other questions, but I'll back out in the queue.

I don't believe there's anybody on the queue right now, Andrew, so you can go.

All right. So moving on and talking a little bit about your Gear Products acquisitions, which were made right before the pandemic kicked in. And you were even literally integrating equipment and consolidating facilities as COVID hit. And it's now kind of becoming, I guess, you call, it your Power Transmission Group, PTG. Does COVID cloud your ability to elaborate on the strategic benefits of the acquisition yet?

We've talked about the acquisition opened up a broader range of industries for you. And you mentioned specifically actively pursuing opportunities in health care, transportation, food production and power generation industries. And your current press release issued this morning said, you witnessed an increase in orders and sales activity. Can you elaborate a little bit more about this and the impact and benefits of this acquisition towards that? And what has been your success in these particular new industries you are targeting?

I think, Andrew, we said it pretty well in the press release, but Joe, if you want to add more color to it, you can.

Well, the Power Transmission Group, and just talking about Gear specifically, really anything that's got any kind of drivetrain in it is an opportunity for Gear. So, there's an almost limitless number of opportunities for Power Transmission. I don't know that we're – and all of them have very good margins. It's not about the – once you get out of the very small gears, I don't want to say it doesn't matter, but we're focused – what we're doing is focusing on regions at a time and establishing a couple of hundred square mile radius around places where we've got sales people located and a representative that are working with us closely.

So, I don't know that we have any particular industry that we have to have. What our sales people are doing is reaching out in a particular region. And there may be particular kinds of businesses in that region that predominate. For example, in the Pennsylvania area, there's a lot of mining business. And then, in the West Virginia area, there's something else. So, it's kind of almost regionally specific. So, once we've got a sales person in the region, they go and see what's out there. So, I wouldn't say that we're focused on a particular application, because there's so many really good ones, but there's a lot of opportunities.

I will say this, that it's better, but there's still a fair amount of limitation on where we can visit. People still don't want – many potential customers don't want visitors, so we have to conduct Zoom calls and phone calls and whatnot. But given the – what you're trying to do here, a visit makes a big difference. Getting an engineer to sit down with another engineer with a gearbox in front of them and talk through the details of how they want it made or remade or reverse-engineered, there really isn't any replacement for sitting in front of somebody. But having said that, we're actually pretty happy with the results we're getting and the positive feedback we're getting where we do visit.

Yeah. It seems that in certain demographic areas – there's only few but certain geographic areas, they're more willing to see us and to see customers. But for the most part, they're very, very reluctant to do that yet, opening it up, aerospace in specific. That's got nothing to do, but I'll get to those question now. Aerospace is absolutely not [indiscernible] (00:19:52) visitors, for the most part. [indiscernible] (00:19:55)

All right. Sticking to the PTG, before I move on to aerospace. So, when you describe an increase in order and sales activity, what is the typical time horizon from getting an order, to the product hitting the revenue stream and the cash flow generation stream? And in terms of your sales activity, when you talk about a sales activity, are you talking about booked? These are booked revenues already for the first two months compared to 2020?

I don't know. I'm not sure I understand.

I'm not sure I understand the question, Andrew. Maybe you could rephrase it.

Okay. So, I only can go off with what you have in the press release. There is no 10-K yet. But witnessing an increase in order and sales activity, when Boeing gets an order that is like multiple months, if not a year or more before it actually hits the revenue stream because of the production cycle of what they're making. Now guys are making gears, or designing, or doing something. So when you get an order and you have order activity and sales activity, I'm just trying to understand the typical time horizon when that quote activity resulting and becomes reportable revenues in product shipment?

I would say, could be as short as four weeks, could be as long as three months. It depends on the complexity of what's being ordered. If it's a reorder from a current customer, that just goes right into the production queue. There's not a lot of engineering involved.

But if we've got to do some engineering, and depending on the complexity, we could go back and forth with the customer a few times, where that could lead to three months between an order and delivery. But if it's a current account, I would say, it's just as fast as we can get it into the production queue, which could be as quick as four weeks.

Okay. And for the activity to have warranted inclusion in your press release to talk about – we got increased order and sales activity. Are these mostly reorders, or are these a mix, which includes engineering and design type of activities?

Yeah. It's all of the above. It's not...

It's a little of everything. It's a little of everything.

Okay. Okay. And you also described it's not really an industry issue, it's more of what's in the region of where your sales force or independent reps, et cetera, are.

Yeah.

If you consider the United States as a full white map, how much of the country is there really white space where you're not regionally represented? And about what portion – or are there particular geographies where you're well-represented to get a feel for the regions you're in and the regions you could expand to?

Go ahead, Joe?

We're very strong east of the Mississippi. We're very strong in the Northeast. We're strong in the Midwest. We're strong in the Southeast. We are building representation in the Southwest. And I would say, the Northwest and the Far West is where we don't really have a whole lot going on yet.

And then, it's not like you're shipping cement. There are really no major barriers for you to eventually grow into the West Coast?

That's correct. That's correct.

All right, just trying to understand the nature of this new acquisition in business efforts evolving to become kind of a reportable subsegment there. All right.

Now, moving on to aerospace, which impacts both Hy-Tech as well as Florida Pneumatic. But [indiscernible] (00:24:33) Florida Pneumatic on that kind of focused maybe on the aerospace there. Boeing got the 737 MAX reapproved, they are talking about a very slow re-ramp. We are beginning to see some orders – literally, new orders for 737 MAXs. And of course, it's been well-publicized how there are crowds at the airport already and airlines are experiencing increased bookings, and of course, have gotten some serious financial bailout.

Can you give us an update a little bit more – or a little more clarity, obviously, than the one or two sentences in the press release as to, I guess, visibility and timing of your order activity in the aerospace side, which obviously is going to be a lag? Are we talking about a few months lag? Is it a multiple quarters' lag, years' lag, or are you already seeing green shoots?

Yeah. Andrew, we read this stuff pretty much all the time. But we read everything that you read. It's not like Boeing calls us and gives us updates. It's not like we get that. I'm just going to point out to you that the 737 MAX orders started to increase to them. But mind you, they have over 200 – or if I've heard there's 230 built planes in inventory. So, they've got to sell a very large portion of that 230 planes that are built and sitting in the desert somewhere. I think I've seen pictures of it. I don't know exactly where it is. Joe can maybe tell you. I think he'd remember.

In Arizona.

Arizona, okay. So, they're there. And until that gets way depleted, they're not going to see any orders today to speak of or anything to do with 737 MAX, or for that matter the 787 Dreamliner. And we do get orders from Boeing for their other factories or the planes. But it's a drop in the bucket compared to what we would get if they were doing their normal business on 737 MAX or – we're optimistic that it's a great plane. And then, now that it's gotten all its [indiscernible] (00:27:22) later, we are optimistic that being such a good product that, over time, it'll get better.

We're thinking more like second half of the year at best, and maybe more towards the fourth quarter of the year at best. But mind you, we could be very wrong. I mean, they can get a whole lot of orders from some airlines, American, or Delta, or something like that and things could change. But the information we have right now, not so much within my pay.

Joe, do you have anything different to say to that?

No. I mean, right now, what we're hearing, and if you follow the analysts, I don't see Boeing ramping up production until towards the back half of the year and into next year. So, I wouldn't imagine, on the commercial side, we're going to see much until Q3 or Q4.

Right. I think that's right. [Operator Instructions]

Okay. And are you seeing any – gaining access to approval on – expecting to any additional or new military programs?

The answer is yes. Joe, you can give out some information on that, I guess. [indiscernible] (00:28:46)

Yeah. We're working with several military manufacturers on products that we've been developing with them. I mean, I wouldn't say they're necessarily by program. These products are something you could use across multiple platforms, so it doesn't have to be the F-35 or whatever. But it's more specific to applications that run across platforms.

But is this, we'll call it, like a new line of work or a new product offerings for P&F that had not previously existed?

Yeah. We had introduced a – I'll call it, an application tool that was very popular for military applications kind of just as the pandemic was kicking into full gear. So, we haven't really gotten the full benefit of our work there. But I would say, military is probably going to open up faster than commercial production because the demand is already there. You don't have to wait for the demand to come from – people to get in at the airport. So, we will see that and we are seeing that. But again, it's still – it's also contingent upon these military manufacturers getting into full production which they're not yet.

Right. Now, obviously, Europe is having another wave. Travel to Europe and European sales initiatives, you've been referring to in your press release, are certainly further delayed from reopening, unlike what we experienced in the United States.

You [indiscernible] (00:30:48) into Airbus before, and it has been an effort. Have you been able to make any progress into the Airbus acceptance or approval process, et cetera, during this period of maintained distance and non-physical presence, or does it all have to wait until the reopening?

Yeah. We really have not. Joe?

Yeah. It has to wait. We had visit schedules, we had tools to show them, but they're not letting anybody in their facility. [indiscernible]

(00:31:29) And this is a product that really needs – sorry, firsthand, like Joe said earlier. Zoom calls are not really good with this stuff. They've got to handle things, and talk, and see things and so, we have to wait. But they have been – we were told by our people in Europe where I think that they're getting to a point that it should be getting better soon.

Germany was going on a lockdown Easter weekend, and they retracted that. I don't know if you know that – yesterday or the day before. They retracted it now because there was such a pushback from the population. So, hopefully, that will help spearhead. And then AstraZeneca has reopened. So, the more success they have with the vaccine, like in America, the better – quicker it will have a value. So, it's still a couple of months away at best.

Right. And does this hindrance or impediment of the need for physical presence for aerospace like tools, does it extend to progress you are developing for aircraft tools and distribution opportunities in Europe, or is that something that you have made progress on or could make progress on, while things still remain Zoom-like?

Yeah. We've made some progress with the AIRCAT, but still, it's slow. It's a challenging time for everybody because of the businesses, of course, and the COVID so...

Okay. I'll back out again. I have questions on Hy-Tech as well as about Florida Pneumatic.

Okay.

So, come back to me when no one else is in the queue. [Operator Instructions]

Orlando, any other questions?

Currently, there are no other questions. [Operator Instructions]

Yeah, I believe Andrew Shapiro said he had other questions. So, let him come back in, so he does it.

Okay. [Operator Instructions]

He may have lost his connection, but he announced that he had other questions, so, we'll give it a couple more minutes. Then if we can't get him on, then we'll just have to conclude the call. He may be disconnected – he may have had cell problems. [Operator Instructions]

Joe, we're not going to stay on this call, without anybody on the call. I f he can't get back in, he can't get back in, I guess.

Yeah.

We'll give it another two minutes. But if we can't, I don't want to inconvenience everybody else on this call.

Yeah.

Does he have a number that you could call him on?

I have a cell phone I believe. I think I have a cell number.

So, now let's move on to...

Actually he just joined in and queued up. Let me open his line up. One moment please. And Mr. Shapiro, please go ahead. [indiscernible]

(00:37:08)

There's no other callers here. And we waited on this line because you told us that you had other questions, but we don't know [indiscernible] (00:37:16).

Thank you.

So, ask your question. Go finish your question, and if you get disconnected again. We'll answer all your questions.

Thank you. The PPP loan, I'm trying to get clarified. You applied for forgiveness, and they have a certain time limit to do that. Can you provide the timing of when you submitted the application, and when you believe you will have your loan forgiven?

We applied about a month ago officially, maybe five weeks ago, something along those lines. And we have been told that no public companies over $2 million threshold have heard any response at all. And all we can do is – we got receipt from them that they've received it. And it's in their hands, nothing else to say.

But they haven't given any notice that they're going to look at things more closely other than what you've submitted in your application?

No, we've heard nothing since their receipt of it.

Okay. And when you are forgiven on some or all of this amount, that forgiveness of the loan needs to hit your GAAP financials in some place. Joe, what do you anticipate to be – where you'll be booking this? Would this be considered other income? Is it going to be a reduction of SG&A? How do you guys...

It's other income, Andrew.

Okay. That'd be other income. And does the company have a tax NOL? I would think, it has accumulated as a result of this last year's losses, that would then pretty much drop that entire other income number to the bottom line?

Joe?

There will be a tax – there'll be a – yes, we have an NOL. We filed for a refund. We expect – well, we will be filing for a refund. And we would expect to get some sort of refund later in the year.

Right. But with respect to other income to be booked on the loan forgiveness, is the NOL – what was the year-end NOL size and is it...

Well, I can't speak to the NOL exactly, but I can tell you that we expect a high six-figure refund.

Okay. And does that mean then the other income number that will come in on the forgiveness of the PPP loan will, for GAAP purposes, be re-taxed, and the net effect will be your after-tax rate on that other income; or will there be still continued NOL offset which drops the entire other income line from the forgiveness straight to the bottom line?

Well, the refund will end up as a tax pick-up. It doesn't show up as other income. The forgiveness is other income. We're still not having a great year, so I can't tell you exactly where we're going to end up tax-wise, but that – you're right, there's a tax effect. It's not a tax – the

refund – the forgiveness is a taxable event. Having said that, we were able to – let me back up.

The forgiveness is not a taxable event. There was talk that the expenses that we're going to be associated with calculating the refund were going to be not tax-deductible, that obviously – well, not obviously, but that changed. So, those were tax-deductible. So at the end of the day, it's a non-taxable gain. Now, don't quote me in exactly how we're going to handle that with respect to deferred taxes and all that. But we will get whatever we had – it's a $2.9 million loan, and hopefully, forgiveness and that's how much we're going to end up with.

Yeah. So, it's almost $1 a share that drops to the bottom line more or less?

Yeah.

We don't know, as we could be wrong. It could be that – I wouldn't be counting that. It's that, we don't have a crystal ball. This is out of our control. We may get $2 million or none. We just don't know. [indiscernible]

(00:42:31)

If you had payroll expenses, there's certainly a calculation on increased payroll, reduced payroll, yada, yada, yada on the bank. Now, when you applied for forgiveness though, you submitted a request for, and support for, and forgiveness of the entire loan?

We did everything that was required – that evidence required and [indiscernible] (00:42:59) it's out of our control. [indiscernible]

(00:43:01-00: 00:43:06)

When you apply for your forgiveness, you apply for a certain amount based on what you ended up doing in terms of payroll and everything else. In your application for forgiveness, did you apply for forgiveness of the entire amount?

I don't think that's something we really can discuss. But whatever we applied for, we're hoping to get. I don't want to be elusive about it, but we can't get into specifics. They've been told us not to get into any more specifics about it. When it comes up, we'll let you – we'll give you – we'll let you – you'll know like everybody else exactly what it is. And we're very hopeful that it's going to be a very sizeable part of the number, but we can't guarantee that.

All right. Whatever. [indiscernible] (00:43:50) so difficult. [indiscernible]

(00:43:53) We can't give any more answer than what we can control.

Okay. Now, in our attempt – because it's not easy, you don't break out the fourth quarter. In our attempt in determining the fourth quarter for your divisions by taking a full fiscal year and taking out the nine-month 10-Q numbers, which we do have because we don't even have the 10-K, it looks like Hy-Tech had a negative gross margin for the fourth quarter.

And I wanted to get a feel for if you can as to how much of that number or how much of Q4's gross – I mean, cost of goods sold is a noncash item, and to determine and understand whether Hy-Tech on a gross profit/gross loss basis, whether it was losing money during the fourth quarter from – just as the production and sales of its products.

It's a little complicated. I understand the answer, but Joe, why don't you explain it for him, if you can?

To my knowledge, the margin generated in Q4 is substantially related to operations. I don't have it in front of me, but there's certainly – there are always adjustments we make, inventory, and the valuations and the reserve, so I'm sure there's plenty of that in there. But it's really an issue of the lack of sales and the lack of overhead absorption. That's the primary thing that's going on in Q4.

Right, so overhead absorption really is a noncash item when it comes to gross profit. Clearly, it's a cost item that we're trying to amortize over, but the products aren't going at the...

That's true.

The products aren't going out the door at some kind of loss to cost of production other than the overhead absorption, is that right?

That – yeah. We're not. There's no fire sales on product to get – to generate revenue. That's not what's happening here.

Okay. And there was no notable inventory warranty or other kinds of noncash reserves that also impacted the cost of goods sold versus prior quarters?

No, it's not significant. No significant warranty issues, no.

Yeah. Or inventory reserve issues relative to the prior quarters? I know, you do it every quarter, you have stuff, but...

I don't recall specifically what the inventory reserve adjustments from the quarter. I mean sometimes, things are adjusted – those are cleaned off at the end of every quarter. So again, the headline is lack of sales and lack of absorption.

Okay. And in terms of lack of sales, again backing out – doing our best here, backing out and trying to create fourth quarter so we can compare it to third quarter, it looks like sequentially, from September quarter to the December quarter, there was a meaningful reduction in the revenue streams generated from the Power Transmission Group subsector. Can you clarify and discuss a little bit what that's attributable to?

Well, in general, Andrew, Q4, in several of our sectors, is always worse. It just is. Hy-Tech that's is aerospace...

So, it's a seasonal issue?

Well, on the Florida Pneumatic side, aerospace, those guys shut down for a couple weeks, so that's to be expected. From the Hy-Tech side, it is quite common that Q4 is our worst quarter, even in a good year. So, I don't know how many – I don't know that I would draw a lot of conclusions from Q3 to Q4 revenue change.

Yeah. And in Power Transmission Group, which is a new group, there is no prior-year comparables for us to see the seasonality swing. All we could see was that last September quarter, the third quarter, you we did about a million in revenue attributable to PTG. And this quarter, again, reverse-engineering year-end, full year minus nine months, it looks like you did about $550,000. And so, that was a sizable drop, but I don't have a prior year to go by, but – so you're saying that in the Power Transmission Group, we should expect to see going forward, a headwind in every Q4 versus Q3.

Yeah. I would say in general, unless we're able to secure a fair amount of growth to get out in front of that, and we're doing our best to grow it, but yes, that is true.

Right. Okay. Now, you did say that aerospace similarly has that. Now, again, I don't have your breakout where you provided fourth quarter. I'm doing your annual numbers minus – well, not numbers. In the September quarter, you did about $1.3 million in aerospace sector sales inside of Florida Pneumatic, but it looks like you did about $2.2 million, where it increase of about $1 million in December in terms of reported revenue in aerospace. So, was there anything in particular that you attribute that to, especially since you feel that fourth quarter is a headwind seasonal quarter for aerospace normally?

I would say it's not attributable to anything assuming your math is correct, which I haven't checked. But there was no discernible improvement in our expectations between Q3 and Q4 in aerospace.

Yeah. I mean, Florida was down year-over-year, no doubt, but it was just – sequentially, it was up fairly substantially.

I don't think – in all due respect, I don't think your numbers are correct, Andrew. We'll check it out. We'll somehow get the answer to you, but I don't think that's correct at all.

Okay.

But we'll get back.

Now, industrial/catalog similarly dropped in the fourth quarter versus the September quarter. And historically, that has not seen a sequential seasonality decline from my notable use of that subsector when you break things out. But was there anything in particular that impacted the industrial/catalog for Florida Pneumatic for the fourth quarter?

It's the ups and downs of the market with COVID and everything else that goes with it. That's all it is.

Things are very, very spotty throughout the year. I wouldn't attribute – there is no systematic reason I can think of that Q4 was worse than Q3, other than I think, as the fits and starts of being in the middle of this pandemic are going to generate some nonsensical sequential changes in revenue [indiscernible] (00:51:57) tell you.

Right That's correct.

Okay.

What I said earlier that there's no – [indiscernible] (00:52:09) out of the woods, not even close. And so you can have days and weeks that's changed dramatically just like that. I mean, perfect example is the price of oil, from $65 a barrel to $59 in a snap of a finger, three days. So, I mean, it's just the stuff. It just happens. When Washington decides they want to do something, it affects everything going down the line. [indiscernible]

(00:52:39)

So, a big spike in oil or moving oil doesn't generally move the needle for you guys one way or another that quickly.

Well, [indiscernible] (00:52:49). We're seeing some of that, But it can go the other way also. But my point is, we cannot, we cannot, and we cannot count on anything consistently like in the past. Some things are – there's just no way to predict what's going on in the world right now. So, we look at it every day and we talk about it every day. And as we see it, we can relate to it.

Right. And here we are, mid-March, we've had a decent amount of time when there has been a run-up in NOL. And you mentioned that you've seen increased order activity coming from the oil and gas sector, whether it's as a result of the higher prices or things have just bottomed out, and they've lost the need to replace their tools. Are you seeing an increase in stabilization there?

We've seen – not stabilization. We've seen an increase but not enough to really notice – not dramatically to the overall company. But it's not a big part of business, but we've seen an increase. But it's not life changing by any means yet, we feel.

Yeah. Okay. And with respect to Home Depot, which is a large retail customer, and you're selling their product direct, consumer-facing, and all that. That's generally been a lower-margin product or subsector versus, let's say, aerospace inside of Florida Pneumatic. Seasonally, do you have feedback about how your new products that were introduced to – I guess now, a year ago,, how they fared in terms of sell-through and results to Home Depot here in their big fourth quarter which I think is your bigger third quarter to know about their need for restocking and reorders, et cetera, for the coming year?

Yeah. Again they're up and down as well, and they're unpredictable. And we're basically doing – they've been better than our customers for the most part. So, our year has been, I would say, essentially, flat to slightly up. [indiscernible] (00:55:21) Isn't that right, Joe?

Yeah. I mean, the only thing that's doing reasonably well there are the spray guns. The other lines are – the other SKUs are actually doing a little bit worse.

Okay. And has the spray gun increase offset the headwinds of the other SKUs?

It has. It has.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(00:55:48) speaks to my point. I keep saying to you so you'd understand that [indiscernible] (00:55:57).

Okay. All right, I think that may be the end of my questions other than again to ask your advisors who tell you – I understand you don't have to break out the fourth quarter. But your advisors are telling you all these other companies don't break out their fourth quarter, is to perhaps revisit that and re-research that. And maybe this coming 2021's fourth quarter, you would indeed help your shareholders analyze and be able to discern things.

Okay. We will. We will.

You're only a small company, and you're not going to – this isn't a way to help attract analyst coverage or attention and investor interest, so...

Okay.

...it's better to make things easier for your shareholders and prospective investors.

Okay. Thank you, Andrew. Have a good day, and good holiday.

Thanks.

Are there any other questions?

There are no questions in the queue.

Okay. Thank you all for your time today. And we look forward to speaking to you at our Q1 numbers, I believe it's in May – or June. But we'll be in touch soon to let you know the exact date. Thank you all, and have a good day.

And this concludes today's call. We thank you for your participation. And you may now disconnect.