Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — COO, CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Vice President, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. Good day, and welcome to the P&F Industries, Inc. 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries' second quarter 2015 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the strength of the retail, industrial, housing and other markets in which we operate, the impact of competition, product demand, supply chain pricing, our debt and debt service requirements, and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with Securities and Exchange Commission including among others as described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our subsequent filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Rich Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Thank you, Rich, and good morning everybody. Thank you all for joining us this morning. As this earnings call proceeds the release of our quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the three months and six months periods ended June 30, 2015, I will begin today's call with a brief summary of the company's results of operations and earnings per share for that period, and how they compare to the same periods in 2014. I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information and provide an update on key events affecting the company, after which, we will move to a Q&A session as always.

However, before I begin, I wish to remind all of you that the purpose of this call is to discuss and review the company's second quarter and six month 2015 results. As such, I kindly request the questions focus on our results only. I'd appreciate your cooperation.

The company's consolidated revenue for the three and six month period ended June 30, 2015 were $22,560,000 and $42,386,000 respectively compared to $18,268,000 and $34,200,000 for the same periods in 2014. Current year revenue is broken down by segment as follows.

Primarily driven by our third quarter 2014 acquisitions, our tools group revenue grew to $16,058,000 and $30,617,000 respectively for the three and six month periods of this year from $12,693,000 and $23,884,000 for the same periods in 2014. Stated as a percentage, we grew the tool group's revenue more than 26% on a quarter-over-quarter basis and more than 28% on a year-to-date basis.

Specifically, second quarter 2015 revenue of Florida Pneumatic increased to $12,003,000 and $8,887,000 in the second quarter of 2014, with its automotive, air tools product line accounting for more than 87% of this quarterly growth. Hy-Tech's three and six month revenue for 2015 of $4,055,000 and $8,360,000 was up from $3,806,000 and $7,522,000 over the same periods last year. This increase was due in large part to the acquisition of essentially all the operating assets of Air Tool Service Company with other aspects of that business down.

Revenue for our hardware group which consists only of nationwide industries was for three and six month periods ended June 30, 2015 $6,502,000 and $11,769,000 compared to $5,575,000 and $10,316,000 for the same periods last year. The largest contributor of Nationwide's improvement over the prior year comes from its Fence and gate hardware product line. We intend to continue our current strategy in this regard, which is to develop new innovative products and accessories for this product line.

The company's consolidated gross margin for three and six month periods ended June 30, 2015 were 37.3% and 37.6% respectively, compared to 36.1% and 37.0% for the same period last year. Specifically for the tools group, second quarter and year-to-date gross margins were 36.3% and 37%, compared to 35% and 36% for the same period a year ago.

The improvements in the tool margins was primarily driven by the added automotive tools revenue. Our hardware group's gross margin for the three month period ended June 30, 2015 was 39.8% compared to 38.7% during the second quarter in 2014. Its gross margins for both six month periods ended June 30, 2015 and 2014 were 39.2%. The second quarter improvement was due primarily to product mix.

Our selling and general, administrative expenses for three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2015 were $6,452,000 and $12,548,000 compared to $5,556,000 and $10,783,000 for the same periods in 2014. Stated as a percentage of total revenue, our second quarter 2015 SG&A declined to 28.6% from 30.4%, and the six-month total was 29.6%, down from 31.5% for the same six-month period a year ago.

Although our SG&A has, as a percentage of revenue declined, there has been an increase in the actual dollars spent, primarily the result of the three acquisitions made in Q3 of last year. Some of the significant items contributing to this quarterly increase were $284,000 of additional depreciation and amortization, increased compensation related expenses of $264,000, primarily due to the [indiscernible] (00:07:04) requirements I just mentioned, and an increase in variable expenses of $310,000.

The company's interest expense for three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2015 was $201,000 and $393,000 compared to $88,000 and $177,000 for the same periods last year. Obviously, these increases are due to the use of funds during the third quarter of last year that we used to complete our three acquisitions.

Included in our three- and six-month 2015 interest expense is amortization of debt financing cost of $28,000 and $55,000 compared to $22,000 and $43,000 in the same periods last year. Lastly, in connection with the UAT acquisition, there was the possibility that we would pay an additional consideration to the former shareholders up to a maximum of £250,000, should UAT's net earnings adjusted for among other things, interest, taxes depreciation and amortization for the period from the date of acquisition July 29, 2014 to the first anniversary of that, which is July 29 of this this year.

At the time of the acquisition, we believe based on a range of possible outcomes that it was more likely than not that UAT would achieve the adjusted net income that would entitle the former shareholders the maximum amount and we recorded a $425,000 obligation as a contingent consideration. However, we now estimate that the adjusted net earnings applicable to UAT for the year ending July 29, 2015 will result in a probable payment to the former shareholders of approximately $224,000. As such, we've adjusted our estimate of this payment. This lowering of the estimated payment has caused us to record $201,000 as other income in our quarterly numbers. The final determination of the exact amount of this payment to the former shareholders of the UAT should be completed during the third quarter of this year. As such, it is possible that further adjustments up or down may be necessary. It should be noted that this income is not subject to federal or state income tax.

Taking all the above data into consideration or income before income taxes for the three- and six-months periods ended June 30, 2015 was $1.967 million and $3.198 million respectively compared to $959,000 and $1.678 million for the same periods in the prior year. And our net income was $1.312 million and $2.93 million for three- and six-month periods this year compared to $572,000 and $1,34,000 for the same period last year.

Our basic and diluted earnings per share for a three-month period ended this June 30 were $0.36 and $0.35 respectively, compared to $0.15 for both basic and diluted earnings per share for the same periods last year. And lastly, our EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $2,925,000 compared to $1,471,000 the same period last year. As our six-month 2015 EBITDA was $5,88,000 compared to $2,711,000 during the first six months of 2014.

I will now ask Joe to provide a brief insight into our cash flow. Joe?

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during the first six months of 2015 were $372,000 compared to $446,000 during the first six months of 2014. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during the six-month period ended June 30, 2015 or depreciation and amortization of $850,000, amortization of other intangible assets of $647,000, a reduction of the contingent consideration which was discussed earlier of $201,000, stock-based compensation of $59,000 and amortization of debt issue cost of $55,000.

Significant components impacting our cash used in operating activities were increases in accounts receivable and inventories for the period up $2,959,000 and $625,000 respectively.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. As I often say and I certainly cannot overemphasize at this time, I would like to acknowledge all of our employees and the management of each of our divisions for doing such an outstanding job during this continuing sluggish economic times. All of us always believe in our company's products and our customers and our management and with hard work and perseverance continues to improve.

That's the end of our report for today, and we'll be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Thanks. I've got a bunch of questions. I'll ask a few and then back out. You guys had another good quarter, so take my questioning here with the appropriate focus here on what can we do better, what is remaining that's going to come from these things, et cetera.

With respect to the acquisitions that were closed over the last year, what integration is left to be done? Your press release implies as of the June quarter end, it wasn't completely done yet. And so I was just trying to understand whether or not the revenue profit cost figures in this most recent Q2 release fully reflect what the business will look like going forward.

Well, Andrew, I'll let Joe discuss that, but I'll give you the – my 40,000 foot view. The only integration at this time that's really not really fully integrated or mostly fully integrated is the ATSCO Hy-Tech integration, which as we said on our last call was is an ongoing effort with steady improvement and we don't expect the full impact of that acquisition and the blending of the companies to really be fully and hold too close to the end of the year. Showing great improvements now, but we expect greater improvements as the year goes further down the road. As for the other two companies, we've done – our management in Florida Pneumatic has done an extremely good job of integrating both. But I'll caution you and I know you know this, ATSCO was a different kind of a challenge being as a manufacturing facility, engineering facility, machinery equipment all that stuff. We moved it into a new place. And so it's a different kind of a set of parameters. Joe, you could comment further if you'd like.

I just want to add, maybe I'll just come at this a little differently in terms of maybe further opportunities going forward. While the physical integration of ETI or AIRCAT into Florida Pneumatic has done and there was no physical integration for the UK acquisition, we continue to develop the market for the AIRCAT products here in the U.S. So we do think there's still opportunity there, but we certainly have anniversaried all of the numbers because that was a July 1 acquisition. But that doesn't mean that we don't think we can continue to grow the business.

On the UAT side, which is the UK acquisition, while physically there was no integration, we really just started shipping the AIRCAT product over there and reselling it later in Q1 to any kind of volume. So we're quite a way off of anniversarying that integration so to speak and there are other initiatives we're also working on, in addition to looking at additional countries in Europe. So there are things -opportunities going forward that we continue to attack and I expect that will be successful on a number of fronts.

And then Richard is absolutely right on the ATSCO deal, physically they were integrated in February, but we have a ways to go in terms of learning how to most efficiently build all that product in Cranbury, training a fairly large number of new hires to not only get comfortable with our typical manufacturing procedures, but the ATSCO product. And then lastly, fully integrating some of the new machines or the machinery that came on board, getting all that properly programmed and also adding additional machinery going forward that will also help us take down some of the backlog.

So, and then once that's even done, then it'll be time to go back to some of the customers that we've inherited and ask them what else we can do for them, and we fully believe that there are opportunities there as well, but we have not been able to take full advantage of that yet, because we don't feel we're in a position to deliver with our typical style so to speak. So there's probably a lot more opportunity there. And lastly, of course that hasn't anniversaried until – that acquisition won't even anniversary until the third quarter.

Right. Following up on the ATSCO Hy-Tech thing, one of the things you mentioned last quarter was the issue of a programming, and it's been three months. And is this an issue of programming the acquired equipment that's still ahead, or you have new equipment coming in that's got to get programmed and optimized?

Yes to both.

I would say yes to both. Yeah. We have new machinery actually that was delivered this week or two and it's in the middle of being hooked up with programming et cetera, et cetera, and should be should be up and running in I'm guessing next week, that's our goal I think. And we have another piece of machinery coming shortly, and we've had a few glitches with some of their old equipment which was really quite debilitated.

So the manufacturers have been working with us, believe or not for quite some time to get these things. They're very complicated CNC type machines, and to get them back to running. And we've just got to the point that they're running, but they're not running at full speed because it's been recommended to us that we kept the machine like slowing working, make sure everything, all the working parts are going for a period of time and then slowly increase the capacity of the speed of those machines. So yes, on both of those answers, Andrew.

So, here we are talking about Q2, and we're in the middle of Q3. So when we talk about this three months from now after Q3 has closed and we will be in the middle of Q4, is that -- that's around the time you think you'll be able to say you have just gotten everything smoothly working? Does that sound about right?

Yeah, that's a goal. That's our goal. Absolutely.

Right. And then going back to the other comment, and I'll back out into the queue here. You said AIRCAT and NITROCAT are the CAT brands we're going to be introduced in the UK. You said that in the last call, you've now said it's been introduced. So in the last three months since the last call and you've introduced them, what's been your experience with these AIR and NITROCAT product lines in the UK and their adoption?

And since these products replaced – I think you said they were going to really replace legacy third party products, our observance of any revenue growth wouldn't be an adequate indicator of this market penetration of these brands. Can you comment about the amount of quarterly revenue these internal products have replaced these legacy products and if you got the expected margin benefit on those revenues?

Well, certainly we've got the expected margin benefit, because – well maybe this goes without saying, but the AIRCAT product is marked up really, really twice. We've got our U.S. sub selling it to our foreign-sub, and then the foreign-sub sells it well the markup beyond that. Typically the – before we bought the UAT business, they were sourcing product directly from Asia and paying a markup and then reselling the product. We're actually getting a little bigger piece of the total available markup in that product. So, yes, we're happy with the margins we're seeing all into the corporation. It's still real. I would say preliminarily, we're happy with the sales of our product with respect to the similar products that it's been replaced – it has replaced. But that data is only a couple of months old. So we have quite a ways to go and to really fully evaluate it. But I'm optimistic.

Okay. And actually the last question here on the simulation of acquisitions and then I will go back out here. On the prior quarters call, you said the simulation of engineering strength of the certain acquired products was still taking a back burner to the marketing and sales resource allocation, and also the Hy-Tech's integration of ATSCO. Obviously Hy-Tech integration of ATSCO, you've already discussed, it is still ongoing. But where do things stand now in your thoughts on the timing of assimilating the engineering strings into your Florida pneumatic and other product lines? Or are we still on the focus of marketing and sales opportunities?

Well, I think, Andrew, are you talking about the muffling technology?

Yes. Or I think it was muffling technology, in particular, from ETI. But it might have been with anything else you acquired. But I think that was the main technology or engineering enhancements, you thought you were acquiring when you bought it that could be permeated across some of our P&F's product lines, but it was on a checklist of things to do. But first you were building out and making – and devoting resources towards marketing and sales opportunities with what you bought and then you were going to revisit and focus more resources on engineering enhancements across all your product lines from what you acquired.

Yeah, at a Hy-Tech, we're still concentrating on the basic integration, so we have not...

Sure.

...done a whole lot with the muffling technology there because we've kind of got our hands full in engineering as it is building – programming and building some products for the first time from drawings that we inherited. With respect to Florida Pneumatic, what we've chosen to do in many cases is take the products that existed and sell them under the – sell them under our Florida Pneumatic label, while at the same time also looking at redeveloping or adding onto the development process. So we are already selling products with the muffling technology in it, where we were not selling it before. That's not necessarily labeled AIRCAT.

Okay. And have you noticed a favorable impact from that?

It's a little too early to tell, and it's really just a pilot program right now. But yes, people like the concept of acquired tools, so it's one more thing we can add to the attributes that will help us sell.

I think Andrew that.

I've got other questions.

Okay. But I think I'll just – before we do that, I'll just tell you that, between the technology and also to look of the tool, which is a younger more, modern look, it's got more attention and resulting in more sales. So...

Because you said that could I follow on on that?

Sure.

Does any of this have potential application for deployment into your large customer OEM manufacturing opportunities with Sears and Home Depot?

We're looking at that.

Yeah. We're looking at that. It's up to the customer. We would most likely offer to them, but the question is will they want that or [indiscernible] (00:26:20) that will be their decision, but we're certainly going to present it to them.

Yeah. Okay. I'll back out. I'll come back. I've got more questions. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll now take a question from [indiscernible] (00:26:36) from private investor.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Again, compliment you on your results. I think it's proven that these were very nice acquisitions a year ago.

Thank you.

I had two questions. In the current quarter, you mentioned that your bad debt expense went up over the corresponding second quarter in 2014, primarily due to an adjustment in the second quarter of 2014 to lower bad debt expense. Could you just give some clarity into what happened in 2014?

Yeah. What happened [ph] Henry (00:27:20) is over time, we had accumulated a fairly significant reserve in AR, I'm sure at one point it was probably warranted. It frankly probably goes all the way back to the financial crisis, to be honest, and it's specific to the subsidiary that had the most exposure in building products where we tended to see the most weakness in our customer base. So we frankly just did not believe that -

You were over-reserved?

Yeah. Exactly. We're over-reserved, we cleaned it up, got it to a more appropriate level. And that's basically it, and nothing more complicated than that.

At the accountant's direction.

Okay. Let me just ask you a question in the same field of bad debts and credit, do you have customers that overlap each of the product lines? My question is if various your customers that granted credit or have credit lines, is there some global review of an overall credit line per customer?

I understand the question and I can't say that there's never been a time where we had one customer for two subsidiaries. However, I think that was situation was probably more where it was maybe the end customer and I'm just going to give you an example that certainly we sell to Home Depot through Florida Pneumatic. It's possible that some of our sensing product may end up at Home Depot through some other customer or it did at one point in time, but they would have never been our direct customer for that sub, and frankly I'm not even sure that that has happened. But it's possible and it could have.

So if that had ever occurred, we would have certainly been aware of it. We look at the accounts receivable situation kind of across the board from New York. So we're aware of the big exposures everywhere. And if we had

That was the question.

Yeah. Okay.

Okay. My last question relates to the contingent consideration. If I go back to your 10-K, where you described the overall purchase price and the 425 relates to UAT...

Yeah.

...and considering that particular amount, it caused you to have goodwill of $234,000. Why wouldn't this adjustment are just goodwill and not income?

That's just the GAAP. I mean I understand your logic.

Right.

Just the FASB, or we used to call them FASB, the guidance at this point in time does not allow you to make an adjustment to goodwill, it just flows through the P&L. That guidance is probably not terribly old, but it's probably within the last five or six years. In the old days, that is what would have been done.

Yeah. And I'm looking at that you recorded goodwill of $234,000 and just it's a coincidence that's the amount of your adjustment. So if you didn't have this, if you would have set the contingent amount at the $200,000 or $225,000, there would be no goodwill. Now, a year or later, there's a P&L effect.

I have to check on that goodwill number that doesn't sound exactly right to me, but I don't have it in front of me. And it would be purely a coincidence by the way, I mean....

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

...the best information would be...

Yeah. I'm reading it from your foot note number two in your guide. Okay.

Okay.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

Ladies and gentlemen, we will now take a follow up question from Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Okay. In terms of some segment questions if I could ask, on the tool side in Q1 Hy-Tech had a large order of non-standard products specific to a customer, and you thought you might get a second order, did that occur in Q2 and if not might this order still occur or is the opportunity and the time passed away?

We did not get an order to my knowledge from them in Q2. The opportunity has not passed the way. It is certainly still a viable customer and we – I don't want to say we expect another order, but we're hopeful for another order, but we don't have it yet.

And as far as Florida Pneumatic, you experienced year-over-year up-tick in Q1 from Sears. What was your experience with them in Q2 and to see if it reinforce the thought that maybe with respect to the products P&F provides them, there's been a stabilization of activity?

The product – that's not quite accurate. I don't believe Andrew. The first quarter of this year Sears business was down, but it was over our budget. And the reason it was down was because we pulled out a certain low-margin products that were not really – they were ancillary products to our main business with them, and so we pulled out those at the beginning of the year, we don't ship to them any longer. So we had a reduced budget to begin with. And we exceeded that budget in the first quarter, and we continued to exceed that in the second quarter, and they've been very happy with the results. And I think they feel, and I can't attest to this, but they feel that there's been a modest rebirth in this product line for them in their marketing. But if you compare it to last year's numbers, it had other products in there, so we will be down from there. We're slightly down.

Okay. And then what's your current experience and visibility with respect to our large relationship also with Home Depot?

We're doing very well with them, and they're very happy with us. We're hitting our budgets and our numbers, and I don't know whether Joe Molino wants to...

Well, I would say, we continue to look for ways to expand the relationship. We're looking – we're talking to them about other products in other areas like perhaps Canada as an example. We're talking to them about these things. They're willing to talk to us about almost anything in our area.

Okay. And absent the specialty kits, you mentioned in your press release the catalog site was down, clearly certain sectors like oil and gas are a headwind. But in prior quarters, you also mentioned that there had been some decreases in the catalog pages, and that obviously the catalogs don't come out all that often maybe once a year, twice a year. But it's been a while since we asked about that. I was just wondering if while the volumes may be down whether our catalog pages and our presence has stabilized or if it's still on the downtrend?

It's been basically flat, but we also have AIRCAT in the catalogs and a lot of customers now as well.

Yeah, Andrew, let me sort of correct the misnomer. In 2015 catalog drops as they say don't really matter as much as they used to a decade ago. The catalog can be updated 24/7, 365 days a year with the advent of the Internet. So the actual paper catalog is becoming a bit of a dinosaur, to be honest. So we put AIRCAT in there without a catalog drop. So it's just to further Richard's question, yes it's still weaker but we've gotten a little bit of a, we think we're going to get a little bit of a bump with AIRCAT now going in there.

When did the AIRCAT get inserted, since you mentioned that it can be inserted almost instantaneous?

Beginning of the year or you know...

Recently.

Like may be end of the first quarter maybe. And it's not complete yet of course, but it's starting.

All right. Within the tool side, can you discuss any new notable new product rollouts in particular in the last call, you were excited about a new aerospace tool that was to be introduced. Did that introduction yet take place and what has been your experience so far?

Yeah, that introduction took place and it's been really positively received. But you know that's just the introduction. So we have a ways to go, but we're excited about it.

Okay. On hardware, you've said nationwide margins last quarter were partially squeezed from competitive pressures. Did those pressures subside in Q2 margins which we saw improve, was that improvement a result of that benefit or just revenue growth and overhead absorption?

I would say, it was revenue growth and a very, very good marketing by our team in Tampa. They're very, very good at what they do. And I think it's a function of that in getting a lot of smaller customers that have higher margins attached to them.

Yeah. Our growth rate in what we call our other customer category, which is actually the smaller sort of everyday bread and butter customers which aren't particularly large. I mean they might average $10,000 a year, but we have many, many, many of them. That category grows a fair amount faster than the market and the rest of our business.

At a higher margin.

At a higher margin because we've got more leverage in that channel of course.

Okay. So as I look at it right now, we've had a nice move in the stock price, long deserved, it's still not a sufficient move. I'm looking at a $35 million – less than a $35 million market cap on our company here. And in the third quarter of three synergistic acquisitions, you're generating a bunch of cash probably as we speak a whole lot more, because it looks like at the end of June might have been the seasonal peak of your cash working capital needs. Yes?

Yes.

Yes.

Okay. So you're generating a bunch more cash, you're paying down that acquisition debt at a probably a faster pace than your bankers even expected. When are – or are you already turning your focus again on additional acquisitions or what other strategic alternatives have you been discussing or thinking of doing with respect to fueling additional growth, getting larger to gain a valuation multiple expansion or allocating capital accretively to deal with a very low valuation of our own shares. In other words, if you're looking for a business out there that's cheap, you don't really have to look further than the mere to find a business in a line of industry and product manufacturing that you're familiar with that is available at a great rate of return.

You asked a lot of stuff. I'm not really quite sure what you want me to answer, but I'll answer you as best I can and if I don't give it to you the way you want, then please ask another part of it. We still have a pretty fair amount of debt to the bank coming down, yes, and coming down quite dramatically, yes. But still with three acquisitions, we've got a pretty good sizable amount of debt level at this time.

I believe we basically had mortgages and maybe a slight bit of other debt or maybe none, but it was very, very small. So, we still have the debt. And I think I said on one of the other calls that I really want to assimilate everything going on here. I don't think though we're always looking and we are always looking, it's not just a cliché, we are always looking and examining acquisitions et cetera, et cetera. But I think it would be – it's very prudent of us and for our stockholders to problematically, if that's the right word, grow.

So I think I would like to – I think it's our sense that we would like to have these full year plus, a full calendar year of all of our things certainly at Hy-Tech with the ATSCO before we start endeavoring on something that's going to challenge. If there's as a small little acquisition that we could slide into something, of course that's what we look for and we would do that. But I don't expect that we're going to – unless there's something really that's a perfect fit for us, I don't expect that in the next several months, we're going to be buying something, but we will be actively in that market come the first of the year, and it just don't turn it on. So we are always looking and we will continue to look. But I don't – it will have to be very compelling for us to do something between now and the end of the year is my take, and from what I think from the board as well. Joe, you want to add anything?

The only other thing I'd add well a different comment that you made, yes, the stock is cheap and it is certainly at evaluation where if I were a buyer of a company just like this, I'd be looking at it. Our experience in terms of doing a buy back out in the market is it just takes a really long time and it's hard to accumulate a lot of stock, but it certainly is something the board will continue to monitor, but your view point is well taken.

Yeah, and we certainly would, we would buy stock. We will entertain something by the end of the year, perhaps a stock buyback, perhaps a dividend, I mean or perhaps an acquisition, we're not really quite sure where we'll go, but we may be in a place to do that at some point as the year, if the year develops continues to develop the way it has.

Right.

Does that answer your question?

It answered it partially. It opens up a little bit more discussion on a few items. So, as I look at it right now, it looks like your debt is up about $6.7 million from prior year, so basically in about two quarters as you have kind of talked about. In about two quarters, you're going to have that debt level down as a percent of things, down to where it was low and you're in a good place, so right? So I understand the timing on that.

Joe made a comment on the considerations of the buyback, a few items. One, I don't know, but I don't think you guys have a buyback itself authorized or active, and in that sense, you ought to have one ready to go in and in place, and whether or not you're able to acquire a lot of shares, shouldn't be the rationale for which to have a plan in place and being in the market acquiring shares on days the people, for whatever reason worry about China or worry about Greece? Those are opportunities for the company to go retire a few thousand shares here and there. And so, I think to have a plan established in place with particular rules and parameters you establish and adjust as the company's financial circumstances and leverage improves is something that is probably a good and active and ongoing program to have there and not worry about the lack of shares out there. You're not going to have another [indiscernible] (00:45:13) okay. So, you're going to need to chew it up in the market slowly but surely. And so, I think it's just a question of having things and having it authorized and prepared.

So, do you have a program that's already authorized or am I correct that whatever program there was has expired, and certainly, if there was a quantity amount that got chewed up when you [indiscernible] (00:45:43) ?

Yeah. So the answer is, yes, it's something that was certainly on our radar, and then thank you for bringing it up again, but at our next board meeting and to the summer, it will be definitely a topic of discussion.

Okay. And then of course you know – maybe it is time for a small sustainable dividend which would widen the population of managers or investors who are allowed to participate and own P&F shares, because it had some form of a modest yield that exists?

Yeah. We continue to review that. As I've told you, I know many times, we continue to review that at every single board meeting without fail, and we will continue to do that of course. I think the sentiment has been that the dividend would not be meaningful enough to really mean anything in the most cases, but we absolutely will be looking at it, and obviously as time goes on and our earnings continue to increase, and if we continue to pay down our debt, obviously it becomes more of a focus. So, I mean it's a developing thing, I would say.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about some kind of high-yield dividend where the dividend would be something that supports the shares and share price and anything else and it's going to be this retirement vehicle, it's the idea that if you're dividend paying, again small and modest, sustainable doesn't even have to grow, you're dividend paying you qualify and you're on the radar screens and you're in the checkboxes of a variety of managers or potential investors that today are not allowed to invest.

And I think that comment is with respect to my next question which is, an overall incremental investor relations and communications program. You mentioned in the last call the consideration of maybe revisiting activity and attempts that you guys did many years ago in an environment when the Internet really was just nascent and microcap investing was a much more difficult communication channel. Has the board had more discussions about incremental investor relations activity of management getting out there and telling the story so that we might see an enhancement of our valuation multiple, which inherently is then a reduction of the company's cost of capital?

We have had those discussions in the recent past, I don't know if we have a plan for our next board meeting, but I'll put it on the agenda. But I would say that the consensus has been at the board level that it's we don't straighten up volume that people would want to get into it – get into the stock so readily because they can't get out so readily. So I think that's been one of the problems and the float is so small in between new Fidelity and me that the flow is so small that it doesn't gain a lot of interest. But we will, there are two sides to it. And since you're mentioning it...

There is certainly a few ways to address that. First off, an ongoing and regular buyback plan enhances the liquidity that one might see. Secondly, investor relations activity begets a higher valuation multiple. And in this instance, the higher valuation multiple and a higher stock price would also beget greater trading volume. Look, if you've got your stock price to a fair value, it might not end up holding over 10% of the company like I do today. But I might be down at 5%. Well, that's 5% that would be trading again and the same might go with Joel and Fidelity similarly.

And now you're talking about just for example, a stock that is in the teens. Well, you're now starting to get to where you could even consider shares as part of acquisition currency. All of a sudden, your float issue and all the other things you're talking about is that as a different story and perhaps if things go all right, earnings growth and et cetera, you got yourself a very small stock split situation. so...

Okay. So, yeah. So, Andrew, I appreciate what you're saying. I appreciate what you're saying, it's part of an overall plan that we will continue to look at. I understand what you're saying.

I mean, maybe it's time you know that you maybe you have a capital markets professional added and included as part of your board in lieu of maybe some of the longer, older legacy directors there as to get someone with capital markets experience.

Okay. I appreciate all your comments.

You're missing an opportunity now and I think that the time is right and that company is not making the efforts that it ought to and I think there is steps you can take, small steps when added together, our shares would trade in the low-teens.

I hear you. I hear you.

Okay.

Any other questions, Andrew with the quarter?

I think I'm done. I'll back out.

Okay. Thank you for your time today. Operator?

And ladies and gentlemen, with no more questions in the queue, I'd like to give the conference back over to Richard and the company for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you all for your time today on our call. And we look forward to speaking with you in our Q3 call later on this year. Thank you all for your time.

And ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference and we do thank you for your participation. Have a good rest of your day.