Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2017 Earnings Conference Call. Please note today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Richard Goodman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning. And welcome to P&F Industries' first quarter 2017 conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to exposure to fluctuations in energy prices, debt and debt service requirements, borrowing, and compliance with covenants under our credit facility, disruption in the global capital and credit markets, the strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad, supply chain disruptions, customer concentration, adverse changes in currency, exchange rates, impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill, unforeseen inventory adjustments or changes in purchasing patterns, market acceptance of products, competition, price reductions, interest rates, litigation and insurance, retention of key personnel, acquisition of businesses, regulatory environment, threat of terrorism and related political instability and economic uncertainty, and information technology systems failures and attacks, and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the SEC, including among others, as described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, our current reports on Form 8-K, and our other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

And with that, I'd like to now turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Thank you so much Rich and good morning, everybody and thank you all for joining us this morning on our call.

I will begin today's call with a brief summary of the company's results from continuing operations and per share data for the first quarter of 2017 and how this data compare to the first quarter of 2016. However, I direct you to our release earlier today for more information. The release this morning presented P&F's balance sheet, statement of operations, per share data, along with most of our management's discussion and analysis.

I'd also wish to remind you that the purpose of this call this morning is to discuss and review the company's first quarter 2017 results only. As such, we must insist that you can find your questions and comments to the company's first quarter 2017 results. I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information, and provide an update on key events affecting the company, after which, we'll move to the Q&A session.

The company's consolidated revenue for the three months period ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were $13,216,000 and $14,499,000 respectively. Florida Pneumatic's first quarter 2017 revenue was $10,509,000 compared to $10,830,000 during the first quarter of 2016. A decline in its retail revenue accounted for slightly more than 60% of their $321,000 decline. Hy-Tech's revenue was $2,707,000 compared to $3,669,000 in 2016. More than 70% of this decline is due to a major customer reducing their orders during the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of 2016. However, I am pleased to report that this customer has once again begun to place new orders. And as of this morning Hy-Tech has approximately $680,000 in orders from this customer.

Further, Hy-Tech's total open orders have increased more than 75% since December of 2016 and more than 90% over the open order level at April 30, 2016. The company's consolidated gross margin for the three month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were 37.6% and 36% respectively. The key items of note pertaining to our gross margin is the improvement in overall product mix at both Florida Pneumatic and Hy-Tech.

Our selling and general administrative expenses for the three month periods ended March 31 of this year and last year were $5,047,000 and $5,019,000 respectively. Significant items of note include an increase of $201,000 of professional fees and other related expenses incurred as a result of the Jiffy acquisition as well as our ongoing M&A efforts, partially offset by lower depreciation and amortization.

Our interest expense during the first quarter of 2017 and 2016 was $10,000 and $102,000 respectively. Of these amounts, $9,000 in 2017 and $98,000 in 2016 is amortization expense of debt issue costs.

Taking all of the above into consideration, for the first quarter of 2017, we're reporting a pre-tax loss from continuing operation of $84,000 compared to pre-tax income from continuing operations of $109,000 from the same period a year ago. On an after tax basis for the first quarter of 2017, we are reporting a net loss from continuing operations of $60,000 compared to first quarter 2016 income from continuing operations after taxes of $66,000.

Our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization was for the three-month period ended March 31, 2017 of $451,000 compared to $928,000 for the same period a year ago. And lastly, during the first quarter of 2017, our board of directors approved a $0.05 per share quarterly dividend, which was paid in this April and yesterday there was a press release stating that we have approved the second quarter $0.05 per share dividend as well.

At this time Joe Molino, will discuss our cash flow and discontinued operations. Joe?

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during the first quarter of 2017 was $231,000 compared to $242,000 during the same period in 2016. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during the first quarter of 2017 were depreciation and amortization of $319,000, amortization of other intangible assets of $206,000. Amortization of debt issue cost of $9,000 and total stock-based compensation of $12,000.

Additionally, there was a non-cash credit attributable to deferred income tax of $71,000 during the quarter. Other significant components, which impacted our cash used in operating activities of continued operations this quarter of $1,874,000 were increases of $716,000 in accounts receivable, $331,000 in inventories and $166,000 in prepaid expenses and other current assets. There were also decreases of $1,090,000 in total accounts payable and accrued expenses payable.

With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. That's the end of our report today. And now of course we'll be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Thank you. Sorry, I missed the last call, I was out of the country. I might have a question unless I read the transcripts. So I may have a question or two that didn't get asked by my team and I might be able to ask. But regarding the tool side, what's the status of your development efforts to open new industry channels for Hy-Tech? And what kind of acquisitions might similarly work for Hy-Tech?

Well, as we mentioned, we continue to develop and have had a lot of success in – coming up with alternative applications and orders are coming in for those kinds of products almost on a weekly basis now. So, we are very far along in that. And over the next few quarters, I think, the revenue numbers will be significant enough to talk about and get into a little bit. But we are definitely moving ahead and that is growing.

With respect to what types of acquisitions, again anything that is a product line that we're comfortable either manufacturing or selling, I don't know that there is anything that I can say specifically, we're now in the aerospace industry where we weren't really in there in a big way 12 months ago, so obviously anything related to that would be an additional avenue we might pursue. There are other applications for products that Hy-Tech could make, it's just a wide range of things. I don't know that I could give you specific industries, we just have to see what we uncover as we look into it.

But all related to tools, Andrew. I mean, we're not going – [indiscernible] (10:47) keeping to our strategy.

Oh no. My question was more specific to Hy-Tech, was the new areas you're going into and then as a follow-up on the Hy-Tech question side was with the rig count rising, you had some discussion in your press release and all, is your general observation that Hy-Tech is troughed?

I would say that's our opinion at this moment, yes.

Okay, all right. And then a question or two or three on Florida Pneumatic, and then I'll back out into the queue in case others are in line.

Sure.

So on Florida Pneumatic, can you discuss the decision and your implementation plans of the kind of the separation from Sears Craftsman and to what extent the purchase of the brand by Stanley Black & Decker plays into this, and even the potential impact it may have on Home Depot since Stanley Black & Decker is a supplier to Home Depot?

All right. Well, let me – those are bunch of questions, so let me start at the beginning. Regarding the decision, we had a contract as we had since the beginning of time that expired September 30 of 2017. My analysis – our internal analysis of their cash flow situation and conversations with fairly upper level management at Sears led us to conclude that at some point in the near future, my guess is sometime in 2018 and again this is my guess, they would have a problem. Well, they've got a problem now, but at some point they're going to have to do something dramatic.

So, we thought that 2019 or excuse me September 2017 was a reasonable point to end things because, unfortunately, given the nature of these contracts, they're very one sided as you can imagine for someone given our relative size to Sears and we would be obligated to continue to supply them, no matter really what happened until there was some sort of filing and we were not comfortable with that situation on a go-forward basis well into 2020, let's say, if we had a new contract or beyond. With respect to Stanley...

Let me just interject if I could with that? We had an enormous amount of phone calls with our people in Florida Pneumatic, with people in the financial world, with people in the retail world, with our own board an enormous amount of phone calls, ad nauseam going over this subject trying to decide if we should continue, what the opportunity cost are that we were going to lose, should we discontinue and we even gave thought at one point to breaking the contract and just not going any further earlier this year, and not ship whatsoever.

Long story short, we concluded with all of our lawyers and everybody else we had that we – it was in our best interest to honor the contract till its end and that's where we are, but it was a unanimous decision that it was in our best interest to not continue milking the cow, because we may get stuck holding the bag. And in fact, there's still obviously a risk that we could get stuck holding the bag this year, because nobody has that crystal ball where we hope not...

It's April and September, it's not that far away.

Yeah, you're right. You're right, but we also got to get paid. The April invoices have to be paid, that's the end of the year. So I mean, I agree with you. But we're fairly optimistic that we did a good job of getting in front of this as best as we could, but we collectively decided that it was just not prudent for us in our best interest, especially with the amount of profit that we make on the account to continue moving forward. So I just want to give you that a little bit of a color.

Let me go back to what I was saying about Stanley Black & Decker.

Well, Joe, before you go down, I do want to hear – I do want that answered. But could I just circle back here just on the Sears part. So around kind of what level of receivables – because they are a long-term payer, what kind of level of receivables in a sense, what kind of risk level does this company kind of run between now, and arguably, not September, but October, November because they're what like 90 days or even longer payers?

Yeah, no that's what they are.

Okay. [indiscernible] (15:54) between now and year-end?

Okay. Our terms [indiscernible] (16:01) with Sears, they pay a little later than that, it is a seven figure exposure on AR and a seven figure exposure on inventory, right now. Obviously, as we get closer to September 30, the inventory number comes down first, and the AR will not come down until we get paid sometime after the last shipment in September.

Okay. So, all right.

Low seven figures, but seven figures for each.

And if you were stuck on inventory, could that be repurposed and relabeled or something?

If there was a filing, we would have some option, and if they did not want the inventory. Yes. We would not be able to move it immediately, but we feel like we could move it over some period of time.

Right. And then what would mainly happen and we're not leveraged at P&F to maybe a balance sheet issue. The receivable as a trade receivable, it would be just hung out there for a long time.

If there was a filing?

Yeah.

Yeah, sure. We have to go through that whole process, we have a significant reserve against it, if not a write-off.

It looks like they're lining up not for a filing of course in 2017 anyway, but okay. [indiscernible]

(17:30)

In 2018, we should be good?

Yes. That's our thought.

That's our thought, yeah.

Okay, now the question regarding now the sale of the Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker, who is also a supplier to Home Depot, can you comment about that and of course have relationship there?

All right. So, a couple of aspects to this. One, we were hopeful up until the announcement of the Stanley Black & Decker transaction. We were hopeful that Sears Craftsman would be sold as an entity to some major player in the market, depending on who that was might consider us as continuing to supply that product. So that was our hope, which is one of the reasons we probably didn't make a decision sooner than we did. It was coincidental that we have the contract come up, but we were holding our hope that it would get sold to somebody who would continue the business with us.

When we found out that all – that really happened with Stanley Black & Decker was they bought the rights to the Craftsman name and they really didn't buy anything physically. They didn't take on the Sears infrastructure, the Craftsman infrastructure, none of that. They simply can put a Craftsman label on any tool they want, that's the right that they purchased. We realized that that opportunity to sell the Craftsman Lock, Stock and Barrel was gone. So, we knew that there wouldn't be a situation where we would continue in a major way.

Stanley Black & Decker's relationship with Sears, you're right, they are supplier. I don't know that, that really impacts us so much. We actually have a good relationship with Stanley Black & Decker and should they need transitional help, we would be in a position to do that, but the fact that they're a supplier to Sears, I don't know that that really changed our decision a whole lot, but it's really...

No, they're a supplier to Home Depot.

Correct. I'm sorry. They are a supplier to Home Depot. That didn't really change our calculus any so.

No, no. I'm getting that now. So Stanley Black & Decker is going to supply Craftsman to Sears. In other words, when you leave Sears, who is going to supply Sears their Craftsman air tools?

We don't really know the answer to that. It's possible that they would work directly with factories in Asia, which they do for some products.

Whatever it is, it is. We don't know...

Yeah, I mean...

They're not sharing with us.

They've not shared those plans with us.

Okay. And then, Stanley Black & Decker has the Craftsman label and Stanley Black & Decker is a supplier to Home Depot on variety of SKUs. Are there any risks at Stanley Black & Decker would become a supplier to Home Depot in the air tools and I don't know if that is a threat to our Husky supplied to Home Depot or we're kind of a different niche and we're the private label player.

Yeah. I mean I think it's more the latter. I mean Stanley Black & Decker could supply air tools to Home Depot today. Stanley Black & Decker prior to this transaction has an air tool line. So if they really wanted to develop a retail air tool line and sell into Home Depot, they've had every opportunity to do that for 20 years. And I don't think the idea of a Sears Craftsman air tool going to Home Depot is really going to fly.

I mean, Home Depot has its own brand.

They're very protective of the Husky brand. And for years, we've always had some concern that Depot wasn't thrilled that we supplied both Sears and Home Depot, but it never ended up becoming an issue, so I don't see that as a realistic threat.

All right. And then lastly on this topic, then I will back out. Rich, you're not all that old and thinking that you're not thinking of retiring et cetera, but strategically, is there a fit and a reason for Stanley Black & Decker to ever want to own and buy P&F tool business?

I mean, I would think anybody in our industry would have an interest in strategically into buying into our business, I would think if that's the answer to your question. And...

I don't know if the Craftsman purchase makes it even more desirable or not?

I don't really know if that has any impact myself. But I do think that we're a good player in that business period. As I said in our press release, we're more and more horizontal now with this aerospace. So yeah, we would be an attractive company for anybody in our industry.

I mean, we just saw Snap-on make this acquisition of a company, somewhat of P&F size and they paid 2 times revenue, a little less than two times revenues.

Right, right.

And it seems like that we'd be a natural for that same kind of thing when the time comes. All right.

Yeah.

All right. Let me back out in the queue, I have other questions, so please come back.

Thank you. Thank you, Andrew.

Thank you. And next we'll hear from [ph] Henry Dubroff (23:28).

Yes, good morning. I would like to follow up regarding Sears. When you have this agreement, however, long it is that you elected to terminate, are you saying that as every order comes in, you do not have the right to review the credit approval on that during the course of the agreement?

Well, there's a couple of things. First of all, we're not terminating the agreement. The agreement is just expiring in its natural way. We didn't make a unilateral termination. With respect to reviewing their credit worthiness, the frank answer is, no. As long as they are paying their bills on time, and there is no official announcement from Sears that there is some sort of filing, we are obligated to deliver product.

So you don't have the sold criteria as an order comes in just to approve it or not approve it for credit purposes, if they had past due on an invoice, you cannot accept the new order...

Hold on. If they are past due, we have rights. I said you that, they are paying on time more or less.

The answer to your question is, [ph] Henry (24:52), yes. We have the right to do that, but they are within their terms, so we don't have the right to do anything.

Okay. I want to go back to today's release regarding the category, customer concentration and you made a statement that we believe the loss of Sears revenue will have a negative impact on our financial conditions, but will not affect our ability to remain a going concern. Could you give a range of the dollar amount of this overall impact on the financial statements?

Well, Sears revenue is in the call it $6 million or $7 million range on annual basis. This year obviously it won't be that much. Margins are actually quite low on that business among the lowest of any of our product lines, extremely low, low double digits, and then we've got our AR and inventory exposure, which we have already discussed.

Right, right. Is there credit insurance available at a reasonable cost for...

No. There is not.

Has not been for the better part of five or six years.

Yeah.

Or more.

Okay. Any of the SKUs that you sold to Sears, were they exclusive?

There were all exclusive.

So, after September 30th, what are you allowed to do with them?

Assuming that they don't take them? [ph]

Henry (26:31) I don't understand your question. Are you saying what are we allowed to do after everything is done?

After September 30th, you could market those SKUs to anyone you want?

Well, let's be clear. Sears is committed to taking all of our inventory, assuming they're still in business on September 30. We will not have any Sears inventory on October 1st.

I think the question is not that...

No, no. If you want to market the same SKU to anyone else in October, you are free to do it?

Yes. We can, but obviously it couldn't be a Sears Craftsman label on it, because we could sell a product – the generic product, but if there is little things about it that were designed for their product then that's their design, we wouldn't be selling that.

I mean, we have lots of different half-inch impact wrenches, we sell them in automotive. We sell them in industrial areas, we sell something similar to Home Depot, but the exact product that we sell to Sears that's their design. Well, with the design we came up with together, we can't sell that to somebody else.

You can't sell that to someone else after the agreement terminates?

Yeah. But I'm not sure there is no practical effects that we could design another tool tomorrow morning, that's an another half inch impact wrench if we wanted to sell it.

It's not really germane. I suggest that you're focusing on something that isn't really germane because we have other products that essentially do the same thing, it's just they have a little bit particular design thing, but it's not like a deal will end all, it doesn't really matter.

Okay, okay. I have one or two other question. Were there any professional fees in the first quarter relating to your recent acquisition?

We just told you that on my report, I said $200,000.

$200,000 okay, then I did not hear.

Okay.

And I guess I was not aware, what was the timing of the change in senior management in Hy-Tech, the new President?

We didn't make a formal announcement about it, except out to the industry I guess essentially, but it was in the first quarter.

February.

February.

First week of February.

February, yeah, February.

And what was the cause of that, that was just something internal or voluntary?

It was a mutual understanding, where we were not happy with the direction of the business and he was not happy with – he was just tired. So, it's a mutual understanding.

Okay. And my last question relates to your overall bank indebtedness. Is there any requirement to have a minimum outstanding amount?

No

No.

So, with your cash balances you've elected to have $100,000 of both balance sheet – recent balance sheet dates the year ending March 31?

We did that just for our own purposes with legal and saving money if we ever go back into the banking agreement again. It's just a way to keep the lines open, it's just an arbitrary number.

So, in other words if you repay it to zero, you believe that closes the agreement?

No.

Maybe I can shed some light on this. That $100,000 relates to mortgage in the State of Florida. There are some complexities to mortgages in the State of Florida if we were to pay that down to zero and then re-borrow again, we'd have to pay a substantial fee to remortgage the property.

Okay.

....by bidding it at a small nominal amount, we avoid that.

Okay. I thought it related to revolving loan.

No.

Okay, okay. I'm going to say thank you. And if I have more, I will ask them after anyone...

Thank you so much. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, [ph] Henry (30:44). And next we'll take a follow up from Andrew Shapiro.

Hi. Following up what [ph] Henry (30:52) had asked. So we have about seven figures on – I mean we have $6 million or $7 million low double digit margins. When that goes away, do you have identified – do you have costs that are discreet to the Sears relationship that will mitigate the hit to the EBITDA and gross profit lines?

Yes.

Okay. And do you feel that you have identified and plans to potentially fully mitigate that or if not, we're going to have some that we're going to have to absorb?

No, that would be impossible.

Okay.

We're going to absorb the vast majority of that lost EBITDA.

Okay. And with respect to a Hy-Tech and the company's performance this last year, again, I missed the year-end call, would you say the company had achieved your expectations for the year or it didn't really achieve your expectations for the year?

For 2016?

Correct. 2016. For the year ended December, the call I missed two months ago or a month ago.

Not even close to our expectations.

Okay. So if it wasn't even close to your expectations, I have a question that it looks like from the proxy that the full performance bonus was awarded. So I'm trying to get a – I'm trying to focus here on the overhead cost of the company that they should come down and the full performance bonus shouldn't be awarded if the company is not achieving expectations because the performance thresholds should be some form of a reach performance. Do you follow what I mean when it comes to compensation policy?

Yes. I understand. But Andrew, and as a not surprise to you, on this call, we don't discuss compensation matters. Our proxy statements has an email – in mail and filed with the SEC and we believe that all the required information has been presented to all stockholders. And we don't give any more information on this call and that's all I can say about that. But there's more to it and I think it was explained very well in the proxy that it's not a one factor thing being Hy-Tech, there were many other factors. So I don't want to go further, it's not the nature of this call, but that's what I can say about it.

All right. Well, what I am trying to do is, understand how us as shareholders we can see and address the first quarter and other operating cost when we know that – the result...

I don't mean to interrupt you Andrew. But we're not discussing this on the call. It's not the purview of this. There are many opportunities to do that, Annual Meeting, et cetera, but this is not one of those and please just respect our wishes in that.

Regarding Jiffy, what type of consolidation and cost synergies do you expect to come out of the Jiffy acquisition and when do you expect those to be completed, so that the business looks like what it will going forward, when would we see that?

I mean, I think, the synergies initially are modest. We're not integrating the facility immediately – really we have no plans to integrate facility. Other opportunities perhaps to have some parts either built it Pittsburgh now or in the future or supplement with some of our Asian sources, yeah, that's all possible. I wouldn't call them large synergies. It's not like AIRCAT, where we closed up shop, folded it everything into the operation in Jupiter, and you had a massive synergy on day one. I mean there are subtler synergies, their sales staff will be managed from Jupiter, the engineering effort will be managed from Jupiter, but there is still a functioning entity out there in Carson City and right now, it's its own entity, but consolidated up into Florida Pneumatic.

And I might add that we are very, very excited about having made this acquisition. For us strategically it was a very, very good fit. I'm not going to compare the numbers perhaps of AIRCAT to Jiffy, it's a different animal. But what we did was, we took AIRCAT – we took our automotive business, which was relatively de minimis, and we added to AIRCAT to it, which made us a real player in that field, and now – well we did exact same thing in this, we're the de minimis factor in the aerospace, and now we are with what's essential the preeminence to manufacture in this aerospace business, so we're very excited that we have this put into our fold.

Yeah. Can you explain what type of customers they have in the aerospace industry and what opportunities this might present for P&F and your other aerospace product lines that you had already been trying to penetrate with?

You again, go ahead.

They sell to the vast majority of aerospace and military aerospace customers in North America. It is a well-known brand in that market. They are in many, many, many on many assembly lines across North America. In terms of the P&F aerospace line, there are some – obviously the products we were selling directly we're not going to be competing against ourselves. However, there are number of innovative tools that we source from Taiwan that we will be considering adding to the Jiffy line. So that is an opportunity to get into that customer base that we had a very difficult time getting into even though we had some very good offerings. Does that answer your question?

Yeah. I mean, you had some new aerospace tools, you were trying to get qualified for with the acquisition and having Jiffy accelerate that qualification?

Actually, the opposite. The tools we were working on we suspended because Jiffy had better ones.

Oh! Okay.

So, there are different tools we'll be working on as a result of the acquisition. So, it sent us in a slightly different direction.

And are there any more actions you feel the company needs to take to expand the aerospace business or is this sufficient, and it's now just about growing the business organically?

That's really, our sense of it at this point. Yeah.

Yeah. Organically and geographically, we think, perhaps – not perhaps, there are opportunities in both Asia and Europe. And now, that we've got a little more heft, we think, we can justify some additional expenditures or investments to exploit those markets, where Jiffy by itself wouldn't do that, and we certainly, didn't have the brand to do that.

And not to beat a dead horse. But it was a company – Jiffy was a company that did well despite itself, and didn't have any marketing program, marketing and it just didn't have a business focus as much as it should, and it did well despite itself. Now, with our – we're hoping that with our sales people and our concentrations on all stuff, we can take it to the next level that's our thoughts, and our plans and our hopes.

So, not to beat a dead horse on our end is the expectations of Jiffy built into the performance targets for this year's bonus pool?

I don't believe so.

No. well, obviously when those targets were built there was no Jiffy.

There was no Jiffy .

Will they be adjusted?

The Compensation Committee has latitude to make those sorts of stuff.

But again, this is not a conversation for this call please, Andrew.

You said you had – well if we can't have it here, I guess, you got to have it in some other domain, and I'm a filer, so you guys don't give me much choice, so...

Okay.

Fair enough. We'll get a letter going. You said that you had additional geography primarily in Central Europe you're developing for AIRCAT, I am assuming that would also now mean also Jiffy?

As I said, there is an opportunity for Jiffy in Europe.

Yeah.

Can you give us an update and the details on how things are going in Europe, since we have asked on the last several calls and you said, it won't be until Q2 that you probably have something to report for from Europe and we are now in the middle of Q2?

Very slowly unfortunately. We are having a difficult time establishing the beachhead we had hoped, but we are still working on it.

Okay. I'll back on into queue, I have a few more questions.

There is nobody else Andrew, so you can continue if you don't mind.

No one else wants to talk about just Q1, okay. Regarding your acquisition process, is there some absorption, adjustment time, regarding Jiffy since it's not as much of an integration that you had to do with the other items that puts the acquisition process on hold or is that active and ongoing as it was pre-Jiffy?

It is active and ongoing.

Okay. So your valuation multiple impacts your cost of capital and your cost of capital is going to decide what's accretive or not accretive when you want to buy things? And in the past you didn't feel investor relations efforts are worthwhile from a financial or time perspective, I appreciate you hold these calls, although you narrowed the scope of what we can speak off on the calls. So the only time the stock really moves is on performance, and you've left that to speak for itself. But in light of the fact and what should have been treated as good liquidity enhancing items, the stock periodically just sells-off. Why not have in place an existing 10b5 buyback program that you establish at whatever price levels, but that basically serves as a floor in a highly accretive use of the company's capital?

It's a good question, as all your questions are, it's a good question. And I can tell you that we talk about it at every single meeting, and the sense of the board has been up until this point, and we have of course a meeting after the Annual Meeting the couple of weeks. But the sense has been that we want to continue to use our gunpowder to make acquisitions and not buyback stock. And it's a fluid situation. It could change tomorrow, it could change when we meet again in a couple of weeks as now we bought Jiffy. But we feel that we have more opportunities to perhaps buy companies going forward. So it's always...

Are you really going to be spending that much cash to establish and actually buy that many shares other than it establishes a floor, enhances a little bit of liquidity, eliminates what's known as the roach motel problem that you can get in, but can't get out? I mean is it really – I mean you're really going to spend that much cash to have something out there? And I say this because as we speak today, it is the 11th of May and tomorrow, the 12th of May is the measurement date for eligibility for the Russell indexes. And unfortunately due to the performance of the company, and its net income, and its excessive cost, et cetera, the market value of P&F this year has dropped below the $30 million minimal limit to be eligible and this company and its stock are going to be dumped from the Russell Microcap Index at the end of or the last week of June. And it is pretty much incompetence and irresponsible for the company not to have in place a buyback....

Andrew, I'm going to...

Let me finish, Richard... [indiscernible]

(43:51)

Andrew, I'm not going to allow this to continue. You have your opinions I can only tell you, you've been our largest shareholder for many years. On this earnings call, we have always given you the opportunity to ask any questions you want, a long list of questions and we provide to the answers to the best of our ability and we do that. However, as I told you before, and let me be clear about this, the purpose of these calls is to discuss the company's results for the quarter and we're not obligated to even hold this calls and we do it willingly and...

Oh, thank you for that privilege.

Andrew, I don't interrupt you, so don't you interrupt me.

You did interrupt me? All I was saying to have a buyback plan, you're interrupting me, you're interrupting, you're interrupting me.

Andrew, you're not making this easier, all right.

You're interrupting.

Andrew, you don't have to say anything, I don't want to hear it. Ask the question that you want an answer to the quarter. Andrew, ask the question that are go into the quarter, that's what I'm going to say you.

Just before you get dumped out of the Index, have the buyback plan in place, that's the only point I was trying to make, but you're interrupting.

Andrew, as I said to you, we have a Board Meeting in two weeks, so at that time...

So I'm educating the idiots to know this, because you guys aren't aware of this.

Andrew, Andrew, I'm going to have to take you off the call in a minute and you can write any letters you want, we are not going to be "idiots", we are not going to taking to your name calling any longer. I don't know what else to say. If you have a question about the quarter, please ask it. If not, please don't. Yeah. I mean, I think, we hear your comments all the time and it's enough. We take you words... [indiscernible]

(45:36)

...then why don't you take your company private, if you don't like being a public company...

Andrew, Andrew, Andrew.

...you have the luxury of being a public company and earning [indiscernible] (45:46).

Andrew, no one is listening to you. Andrew, no one is listening to you. Okay. All right. No one is listening to you. We try to be as respectful as we can even though...

That is not true.

...we don't get it back from you, okay...

That is not true. You've got plenty of respect. [indiscernible]

(46:01),

You've always gotten disrespect when you've given it out, sir.

Okay. All right. Okay. Any other questions about the quarter?

Only when you dished it out. You even put a dig in the call conference call...

Andrew. Andrew, any other questions you have? Andrew, any other questions you have about the quarter?

I wasn't even on the last call and you put a dig in, so talk about disrespect, sir.

Andrew, any other questions about the quarter we are more than happy to answer the questions. Do you have any other questions about the quarter?

I don't know. Why is it worthwhile to you, like you are doing us a service, but you are not really?

I told you that we are happy to talk – we are happy to close willingly and happily.

You are not happy, it's clear. It comes off from your tongue so...

Andrew, I'm telling you what we do and we give all the stockholders a better understanding of our company as best as we can and we do that and we answer the questions willingly and happily. That's what we do. And I'm sorry, if you don't think so. I am sorry.

I normally think so, but you have your little disrespectful items, when you do the interruption et cetera. It's just the way you are.

Andrew, do you have any other questions about the quarter?

Yeah.

Okay. Please ask them.

So, your CapEx plans for 2017 your major projects embarked on – or to be embarked on, you said it would be pretty light year in CapEx, you've talked about in your press release, kind of the amounts that are going out there, what are the major projects that money is going to flow to?

Really, the only thing that I would point out that right now is on the radar, that's maybe a little unusual, so we are looking at a new ERP system out of the Hy-Tech. Other than that, it is business as usual on tooling and I don't know that we've got any large equipment purchases on tap for this year.

And the new CNC machine that was put into Hy-Tech that's still running below capacity, right?

Well, yeah. I'm going to say, yes.

Okay. But are you seeing it ramp up and are we getting the margin benefits of that ramp up and what do you expect it from it as new...

Well, I wouldn't focus on one machine, but I would say this, that beginning and the middle of April, we moved back to overtime for pretty much the entire group of operators on the floor to Hy-Tech, which is a very good sign that we have orders so.

All right. Well, I'm looking forward to seeing that rebound.

As we are.

All right. I think we've covered Jiffy, we've covered the tool side and we're not allowed to ask questions on the corporate side. So I think we're good – I mean we're not good, but I have no further questions.

Okay. And thank you all for the call today. Andrew, we're doing the very best we can. With the stockholders in mind and ourselves in mind every day. And I'm sorry, you just don't understand it or don't want to accept it and there is nothing more I can say about it. So thank you all for your call today and we'll be on the call for the second quarter in August. Thank you all for your time today.

Thank you. And again, ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today. We thank you for your participation.