Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — Analyst, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the Q2 2022 earnings call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, the Company General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to P&F Industries' second quarter 2022 conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, and could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. These risk factors and uncertainties are described in today's press release under forward-looking statements as well as in our most recent SEC filings, which you can find on the company's website, including our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Thank you.

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

I would also like to remind all participants on this earnings conference call that with respect to the questions and answer portion of this call, it is the company's policy that the length of the questions from any particular stockholder or other caller together with management's responses are limited to 20 minutes.

Additionally, please be aware that during the question-and-answer session, management will only answer questions directly related to the company's results of operations and financial condition relating to the second quarter of 2022, we must insist that you adhere to this procedure. Management will not be entertaining any questions that go beyond the scope of this call.

And with that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning,

Richard.

Good morning, Rich and thank you all for joining us today to discuss P&F's results for the three months ended June 30. I hope all of you are doing well as the country and the world are continuing to try to exit from these horrific ill effects of the global pandemic while navigating through difficult domestic and global economic headwinds as well.

I would like to direct your attention to the company's press release that was released earlier today, which includes the company's June 30 balance sheet, statement of operations, cash flow, and discussions related to the company's results for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2022, and how these results compared to the same periods in 2021. Further, I wish to highlight a few key factors that impacted our second quarter results. The Jackson Gear business, which was acquired earlier in the first quarter has significantly improved our PT (sic) [PTG] (00:03:06) revenues, the shipment to our largest retail customer – of this – of retail customer was stocking rollout (00:03:16), the decline in total gross margin driven by, among other factors, rising cost of raw materials, labor and outside processing, excessively high ocean freight costs and customer and product mix, and lastly, the persistent ill effects of the pandemic.

Finally, in order to make better use of everyone's time, yet be mindful of the purpose of this call, I'd like to remind all of you with the following. First off, as we have done for several conference calls, it has become our standard practice. We will move directly to the question-and-answer session, and that restate was already in this morning's press release.

Secondly, please be aware that we'll only be answering questions directly related to the company's results of operations and financial condition relating to the second quarter of this year. We must insist that you adhere to this procedure. Management will not be entertaining any questions that go beyond the scope of this call. And lastly, please be mindful of the 20-minute time limit that Richard Goodman previously noted, which we plan to enforce, as always. To the extent shareholders or other callers with pertinent questions and multiple questions, please complete your portion of the Q&A – excuse me, within the 20-minute limit. And then we will move on to the next questionnaire.

And with that, we would be happy to answer pertinent questions that you may have now, please. Operator, please open up the question-and-answer line.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first caller from [ph] Timothy Stabosz (00:05:13), he is a private investor.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Congratulations on the revenue growth material. Can you give some 60,000, 50,000 foot commentary on the – whether the ability to recover the 400 basis points or whatever it is, gross margin shortfall. I mean, I'm looking at a company that and I know [ph] some of that Home Depot perhaps had (00:05:50) lower margin, but the – a company – finally, looking at a company here that potentially would be at material profitability, if you can pull the levers here to restore gross margin, what's your – broadly speaking, what's your level of optimism that it's been a long time, but that we can move that needle and get the company back to material profitability, historically, we've earned a $1 plus earnings per share, not asking for specific guidance, but kind of a high level qualitative sense of your optimism or potential optimism?

I will let Joe answer that for the most part. But I'll just it start by saying, [ph] Tim (00:06:36), I wish any of us had a crystal ball to be able to talk about the economy. If the – if we weren't facing the recession that everyone keeps talking about every day in every publication that's what you read. And I try not to read them anymore because it's so negative all the time. But if that we didn't have that, we could give you a very more concrete answer. But there's so much unpredictability and the price increases are just so enormous and so erratic from our vendors and the materials and stuff like that. I mean, in the range that you can get a 40% increase in a product, in a raw material, and two weeks later you get another 15%. It's just so crazy. How do you possibly combat that? But Joe, maybe you can add more color to that. But that, just in general, if you're looking for a high level review, I don't think any one of us could give it to you, because we don't know what's really going on in the world. We can only act on what we see today. And so, Joe, you may want to add on to that.

I – Thanks, Richard. I think Richard's general comments are all true. I would say that it's a relatively short list of customers for us to really focus on to move those margins that I remind you in the quarter, we did have that one large retail customer that shipped, that's our lowest margin customer on the Florida Pneumatic side. So obviously that one order won't repeat. So the average will come up just mathematically. On the Hy-Tech and the Florida side, we had fairly rapid input increases throughout the quarter. We were catching up with concurrent price increases. I think we were frankly a step behind because that's kind of the way it is sometimes when the – you've got a committed price and then your input goes up and sometimes you get caught in a little bit of a squeeze. So, I think just mathematically, we will be catching up there just by the virtue of time passing. Having said that, we've got specific initiatives to address some of the input increases in costs. I won't go into specifically what we're going to do, but to answer your question, [ph] Tim (00:09:09), is, yes, I'm pretty optimistic we can make a very big dent in that drop in margin. Some of it was mix, but some of it was also just still playing a little bit of catch-up on these rapidly changing input costs.

Specific to – thank you. Specific to our view – our business that relates to the oil and gas market, [ph] I'm not (00:09:09) exactly clear. I'm not as much a student of the company as another large shareholder on this call, but do we view ourselves as – the business related to that industry as being decent now or where it needs to be and growing or how would you characterize how – where we see our customer base and are you satisfied with where that is now and where it's going, what it's – the potential is actually for further improvement in sales and profit?

Yeah. [ph] Tim (00:10:17), you have dropped out of the picture of P&F for a while. So perhaps you haven't done some of these phone calls, but oil and gas part of our Hy-Tech business is dramatically different than it used to be. We're nowhere near as – we don't have nowhere near as much a business in that area. We've changed the scope of and the focus of our business and that and by doing so, it's become a less important factor in the business. So it's really, we see sporadic orders. I mean, we definitely get orders. So it's not that we don't get orders, but it's nowhere near as important as it once was in a different kind of a mix to our products and our customers. Joe, you want to expand on that at all or is that basically [indiscernible] (00:11:04)...

Yeah. Just to break it down a little bit. There was a time [ph] Tim (00:11:08) when I'd say oil and gas might have generated 30% to 40% of the revenue for Hy-Tech sales. Now, with the transformation of the company at Hy-Tech, I'd struggle to say that it's even 10%.

Okay.

Maybe 15%, at most and for Florida, it was never a significant piece. Maybe it's 5% of sales there at best. So, it's just not really much of a factor.

Okay.

Obviously, to the extent there's robustness there, we still have those customers and they do well, but it's probably not going to move the needle as much as it might have [ph] five or six years ago (00:11:46).

Okay. That's probably something that only another large shareholder would care about [ph] then (00:11:51) I'd imagine. I am going to get back in queue. I don't know what the policy is. But I'd hope if something else comes up, you might come back to me. Thank you.

Yeah. Thank you.

Okay.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from [ph] Henry Dubrow (00:12:24), a private investor.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Could you tell me if there was any – what was the provision for doubtful accounts in the current quarter compared to a year ago?

Joe?

That is not a number we publish that I'm aware of, but we probably have it somewhere in our Q files. If you'll give us a few minutes, we can probably dig that up. I mean, I would say in general, if maybe what you're getting at is how healthy are our receivables...

Right.

I would say that we've seen minimal losses related to the pandemic and people not paying. I don't want to say it's zero, but it's not very material. But someone's going to dig that number for you. And we can get – we can compare this June to the prior June, if that's a number you want to know. [ph]

June to December (00:13:23).

December, okay we'll get you June to December.

Any of the significant over 90-day receivables, are those handled in-house or they out with collection agencies?

Generally...

I'm sorry, Rich, go ahead.

Yeah. I was going to – generally done in-house. But go ahead.

Yeah. I can't say that we've never put them out to collections, but it's usually only something that's very minor. And I did get the numbers for you. So at December 31st, the provision was to call it $267,000, and at the end of June, $300,000. But mind you, AR dramatically grew between those periods from [ph] 7.8% to 10.7% (00:14:11). So I don't think that's an unusual – AR is very healthy.

Okay. Okay. One last question, relating to the compensation of the sales force, is it a salary, a fixed amount per person, or is it salary plus an earned commission?

It depends on the job description and the company that the person is in. We couldn't – I couldn't tell you that there's one specific thing. It's a – we have some people on salary, [ph] full (00:14:46) salary. We have some people on commission and we have some people on commission and salary. So it's a mixed bag.

Okay. Okay. I'm going to back out. Thank you.

All right.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And it appears we have no questions at this time. My apologies, we do have a follow-up from [ph] Timothy Stabosz (00:15:38). One moment.

I'm not sure what's going on with [ph] Shapiro (00:15:40). I thought he had questions of his own. So that's strange. I got a follow-up here. I appreciate the announcement of the dividend, by the way. Thank you, thank you for it, gentlemen. I presume...

You're welcome.

I presume that is – thank you, Richard. I presume that say that also, getting back to my first original question, is a statement, a broader commentary on your confidence level of the business to be in a healthy enough state to – we're not – that we're not going to be burning through capital to pay the dividend in the next several quarters. You don't need to respond to that. What was my follow-up on that? Well, I guess here the other question would be [indiscernible] (00:16:32) sometimes it's [indiscernible] (00:16:34), but the buyback and we got the dividend, which is great. What – has the board's attitude changed or can you comment, Richard, on the board's attitude towards the buyback with the stock at $5.50 or [ph] wherever (00:16:51) it is right now?

Sure. It's – we talk about it, as I told Andrew and anybody else who ask the question, we talk about it at every board meeting and if we have telephonic board meetings in between the formal board meetings, we talk about that as well. And it's an [ph] overall (00:17:09) function of what our cash commitments are, what our projections are for the future, what our priorities are and we felt that this time, right now, we felt that we wanted to return to the stockholders, [ph] start (00:17:27) to try to return to the stockholders is [Technical Difficulty] (00:17:29) something. So that's why we want a dividend. But, if things improve, continue to improve, we would want to be – we absolutely want to buy back stock at that time, but right now, we don't have any comment about that and we really can't say, we talk about it all the time. And that's all I can really tell you about that.

Yes. So you paid the dividend as I'm reading the press release otherwise and we've had some demands on capital and we are actually, I guess, borrowing some money now. I guess it goes without saying for declaring a dividend that you're – Joe, you're very, very comfortable that to grow the business or otherwise here to fund growth or fund working capital needs that with the asset base, I guess that's what you said in the press release that, you sleep perfectly well at night, right?

I sleep – well, maybe I don't sleep perfectly well. But it is nothing to do with P&F. But, yeah, I mean, I'm very comfortable with our financial position, our cash flow in the quarter, my expectations. So, obviously, if I was uncomfortable with the [ph] $160,000 (00:18:38) or so, I would have let the board know. But yes, to answer your question.

And let me remind you and anybody else on this call, this is – this we call this special dividend a reason because... [ph]

Special (00:18:51).

...we're not – yeah, it's right. We're not – because of the uncertainty in the world, we have to – we're going to look next quarter. Our board is going to look next quarter and we'll do that for the foreseeable future. It will depend on the company's operations and the financial condition and other relevant factors. So, it's not a – it's a special dividend and every quarter, we will analyze the facts. Out hope and plan is that we will continue it, but we can't make that commitment at this time.

Okay. And Joe, is the accounting – just briefly, is the accounting different for a special dividend versus regular dividend in terms of the entry or whatever?

No, not to my knowledge. It's been a long time since the CPA exam. But I would say no, there's no different.

Sure. It was taken from existing capital versus retained earnings or something like that. But I guess you may have negative return, [indiscernible] (00:19:42)

No. There's no difference. It just – It's just what we're – there's no difference financially.

Okay. And then finally, my final question is, is there a way that you could give us, again, at a quantitative – a qualitative level, a sense of because of Boeing Air Max, what [indiscernible] (00:20:05) opportunities that could come – I mean, no one really has a way of knowing the shareholder. And I'm frankly, giving you guys the credit you may deserve for what you have been doing or achieving here, the [ph] eight balls (00:20:20) you've been behind, is there a way that you could qualitatively, Joe and Richard, give us a sense of, I guess, not numbers, but the potential of that return or that getting back to normal. Is there's some way we could get a sense? Can you [indiscernible] (00:20:42)

I [indiscernible] (00:20:43) I think we answered that question earlier. I'm not being dismissive, but I mean, we just – we don't – nobody in the world has that answer right now. I don't think – you're not getting from GM and Ford prediction for the future, so I can promise you we can't do it either. Nobody knows, it's a very big question mark as to where -

Could you look into your crystal ball actually, though? Just kidding. Okay. [ph]

I wish I could (00:21:08).

That's all from me.

Okay. Thank you, [ph] Tim. That's really good (00:21:12). [ph]

Mr. Shapiro (00:21:12) had text me, said he's trying to get in, so I'm not sure hopefully he's gotten in, but he wasn't being acknowledged somehow, even though he's trying to have such [ph] an FYI (00:21:12) Thank you very much.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. And next we'll move on to Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Thank you for allowing me in to ask some questions here.

Following up on a few things that [ph] Tim (00:21:46) raised and just trying to get a little bit more color on some of the stuff. I just wanted to make sure you guys are aware under the legislation that the President is going to sign this week that an excise tax is going to begin in position on buybacks, but it won't kick in until January 1. So that might be a consideration for the board in the event it might want to get a buyback in before then and then continue on with the dividend policy, et cetera. So just an FYI.

I promise you [indiscernible] (00:22:22) we read the same newspapers you do. I promise you, we understand.

Okay, good. And on the last call – you said on the last call that it was only about 60% to 70% of the customers where you were able to conduct onsite visits with current or prospective customers for both Hy-Tech PTG, as well as existing North American Aerospace like Boeing and its suppliers, as well as prospective [ph] overseas (00:22:50) aerospace customers like Airbus. Did that improve in Q2 and even further here halfway through the current Q3? Are you able to get into pretty much all the customers you want to get into to start conversations?

Yeah. I can't give you a percentage, but my general sense and my feeling is and Joe can cooperate if it's correct, but basically having no issues any longer with getting into customers. We've been to Airbus and – but of course Airbus is like moving the 10-tonne gorilla, so...

Sure.

...it's going to take [indiscernible] (00:23:29) get there, but yeah, that's – that – but it's pretty much we're able to get around. Joe, is there anything else you want to add on that?

There's no – I don't anticipate whatever restrictions are in place are going to have any material effect on our ability to grow the business.

Okay. Because that was a big issue for PTG...

Yeah.

...in particular, because it's such an engineered product, you needed to get in there onsite.

It absolutely was and that seems to have subsided.

Awesome. Okay. Where is the under absorption of what you call the other manufacturing overhead costs occurring? Is it in Jiffy Air Tool and/or Hy-Tech?

It's primarily Hy-Tech.

Oh. Okay. And with the sizable gains in the OEM engineered solutions in Hy-Tech, are there any particular areas, industries or products worthy of any call out or elaboration at all?

Go ahead, Joe.

I would say it's primarily in heavy duty tools and mechanisms, industrial, the industrial area.

And any particular industry sector or anything that stands out.

We're working with a wide range of industries.

Okay. On the March quarter call, you thought that the opportunity for Jackson Gears and its synergies was still in transition. But there would be tangible progress in Q2. But with the bulk of the benefits kicking in for Q3, can you provide a status update? Do you feel this progression of timing is still on schedule?

I would – Joe, can give you more specifics again as well. But I would say it's probably more third quarter and fourth quarter that we will be at or where we would expect to be. But, Joe, you can chime in.

Yeah. As I was saying a little bit earlier, what we were saying a little bit earlier, we really got caught up in some input squeeze, for lack of a better word in Q2, material cost increases, some labor issues. And also it's a fairly complex supply chain for Hy-Tech. And we do – while we do lots, we're very vertically integrated, we don't do everything. And there are a number of outside processes required for us to get the tools complete. And our suppliers have struggled to meet our timelines and hit our target pricing. So that definitely slowed us down. I don't know that there was anything that could have been done about that. We are expanding our base of suppliers, in fact, in some cases even considering bringing some things back in-house. So to Richard's point, I'd say we're probably a quarter behind where I'd like to be. We have made progress, but we're probably a quarter behind where I thought we might have been if you had asked me that question five or six months ago.

So – and then on aerospace, your press release said this and I think it was probably just written before this week's news. But Boeing's large 787 Dreamliner inventory has just been cleared to begin delivery this week and American Airlines took its first delivery yesterday. Production is expected to begin to ramp up in the coming months/quarters. Do you have tools that are approved and are being used in the production of 787 or the 787 subassemblies?

Go ahead, Joe.

Yeah, we absolutely do. It is not – it is not a major part of our sales. It is there and honestly I'm not 100% sure that full production of the 787 actually halted. I know that they weren't approved [indiscernible] (00:27:44)...

No, it didn't.

Right.

It didn't – it just – they cut it to five, they're going to cut it down to five. I mean, it was – it's going to [indiscernible] (00:27:50)...

Yeah. I don't know even what – I'm not even sure what full production is. Maybe it's not 50, it's probably 10. But in any event, yes, we sell in, we build that, we help build that aircraft with our tools. But it's not a big piece of the pie. I mean, the 737 Max is the – that's the product. I mean, that's the one that would have a significant impact should that come back online to the way it was.

Right. And are you beginning to see more order activity on your 737 tools?

Not really.

I mean...

Go ahead Richard.

I mean, it's a little bit, but not – yeah, not really. I mean, it's a little bit, but not enough to make a difference.

Just... [indiscernible]

(00:28:36)

Go ahead, Andrew.

I think it probably needs the inventory of all the airplanes sitting on the – in the desert to be brought down, as well as, of course, the Chinese to recertify.

Yeah. So, while we don't have a crystal ball, I would point out three things that are publicly available that you don't need to hear from us that can help you get a sense of where that's headed, one you just alluded to was the Chinese approval. Second would be getting the inventory cleared out and the third is and they're related, going from the 30 a month they're building now to the mid-50s, which is where they were before the crashes and before the pandemic. So you guys read what we read when we read it. We don't have any advance notice – really, frankly, no more advance notice than the public does and when those things are going to happen, but when you read about changes in any of those three items, then you'll know as much as we do about what happens next.

Right. On the prior call, there was approximately $3 million or $1 a share, a little less in various tax refunds coming to the company over the course of this year and next. And about – and I think it was $1.35 million, please correct me if I'm wrong, was a 2020 tax year refund for your NOL carryback and around a little less than $2 million was for the employee retention credit you thought wouldn't come in until 2023. What's the current visibility on the timing and receipt of those two cash payments?

We did receive the first refund, the $1.3 million. I can't tell you exactly what month it happened, but it was some time since the end of Q1 and the $2,028,000, which is the refund for 2021, which is driven by the credit, we – it's in various pieces. We received a small portion related to one jurisdiction, but the vast, vast majority is we're still waiting for it. It's....

Sure.

2023 is still our assumption.

Okay. And the – breaking that down, the amount that was already received for the 2020, while you couldn't recall what month it was, is it in Q2's numbers and balance sheet or is it something that's.......

Yeah. Yeah. In Q2. [ph]

into current quarter (00:31:21)? Okay. So that's the important part. Okay. And the amount that remains, the vast amount that remains that you're not expecting until 2023 is approximately how much?

Still approximately $2 million or little less. $1.9 million and something.

Okay. Okay. We'll call it $1.9 million and be conservative. All right. Regarding potential acquisitions, on the prior calls, you said you were particularly interested in opportunities that might become available to further expand the company's gear business, can you update us on if you are seeing opportunities to pursue that as of yet?

Richard, you want me to answer?

Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead, please

Yeah. I mean, opportunities abound they're everywhere, but I'll speak for the team saying right now we're focused on integrating Jackson. And it's just my opinion, until I'm comfortable that we're fully integrated, I think we're going to sit on the sidelines. And I don't think we're going to miss anything. Our survey of the landscape there is there will be deals for us when we're ready. There's just – it's a target-rich environment, if – once we get to that point.

Great. And then regarding your mention on competing with newer battery powered cordless products, can you provide us an update and some more color on your development of or incorporation of others' advanced technologies into your tool platforms to compete? And perhaps color on the prospective time range in which these technologies would be integrated in [ph] part of (00:31:21) products introduced by P&F?

Go ahead, Joe.

I don't know that I'd want to tip our hand, frankly, because some of these are fairly competitive markets and I don't really know who is listening. But we...

Okay.

...continue to evolve our analysis of those things. And everything is still on the table. But when we have something to announce, we will. But for strategic reasons, I frankly don't want to say more than that.

Okay. I mean, usually, when you guys have had new products that you'd like to introduce and all that hasn't been made via investor press releases, [ph] I've (00:33:54) generally had to dig it out and find it on the web. And in various corners of the web from the trade press...

Well...

... might you provide that to investors?

Yes. I think should we make what I consider a significant splash in in battery operated tools, I'm pretty certain we're going to make a big deal about it. But I really don't want to say – we don't really want to say what we're up to at the moment.

No. That's completely understandable. Thank you. And that's all I have for you this quarter. You answered a bunch of the rest in the call. Although if you have the share count number that we can't see until the 10-Q because you don't actually put it in your press release...

Yeah.

...that would be helpful.

Yeah. 3,194,699 shares. [ph]

699 (00:34:59), awesome. And if there's any consideration you might give to a little bit more time gap between your press release and the timing of the conference call, that might be somewhat of an aid because it's just very short turnaround time to do any analysis or incorporations, especially since you don't provide the breakouts that we found in the 10-Q until afterwards, because you don't do this 10-Q concurrently and I don't know if you could do the 10-Q concurrently that would be helpful or provide a little more time between the start of the conference call and the timing of your press release but just investor suggestion.

Okay. Thank you. We'll talk about that for sure.

All right. Thanks, guys. [indiscernible] (00:35:58) No?

No. All right. Okay, stay well.

Thanks. Bye.

Thank you. And it appears we have no further questions. I'd like to turn the conference back over to the company for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you all for your time today and we look forward to our next phone call with Q3's results in the next coming months. So stay healthy and well, everybody and thank you for your time today.

Okay. And that will conclude today's teleconference. We do appreciate your participation. You may now disconnect.