Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day everyone and welcome to the P&F Industries Full Year 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Richard Goodman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries' fiscal year 2013 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and CEO; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and CFO.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management including those related to the company's future performance and outlook are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations which are subject to various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the strength of the retail, industrial, housing and other markets in which we operate, the impact of competition and product demand, supply chain, pricing, our debt and debt service requirements and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company in the with the SEC including among others as described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and our subsequent filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

And with that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning, Rich, and thank you. Good morning to everybody else for joining us today on our call. I will begin today's call with a brief summary of the company's results of operations and earnings per share for the year 2013 and also compared to fiscal 2012. As this earnings call precedes the release of our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K, I believe it will be helpful to briefly discuss our fourth quarter of 2013 and how compared to the same period in 2012. I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information and provide an update on key events affecting the company, after which we will move to a Q&A session as always.

However, before I begin, I wish to remind all of you that the purpose of this call is to discuss and review the company's fiscal 2013 results. As such I ask and kindly request that questions focus on these results only. I appreciate your cooperation. The company's revenue for the three-month period and fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 was $15,398,000 and $76,066,000 respectively compared to $12,691,000 and $59,871,000 for the same period in 2012.

Revenue for our Tool Group during the fourth quarter of 2013 was $11,949,000 compared to $9,469,000 in the fourth quarter of 2012. For the fiscal 2013 year, Tool's revenue was $55,574,000 compared to $42,141,000 in 2012. Revenue of our Hardware group, which of course consists only of nationwide industries, for the three months and fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 was $3,449,000 and $20,492,000 compared to $3,222,000 and $17,730,000 for the same period last year.

The company's consolidated gross margin for the three-month period and fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 was 35.3% and 35.9% compared to 38% and 37% last year. Specifically, for the Tool's Group (sic) [Tool Group] (00:04:11) fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 gross margins were 35.4% and 35.5% compared to 38.7% and 36.6% respectively for the three-month and 12 months closing on 2012. For the Hardware group, fourth quarter and fiscal 2013 gross margins were 35% and 37.1% compared to 35.8% and 37.9% respectively for the same periods last year.

Our selling and general administrative expenses for the three-month period and fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 were $4,433,000 and $22,325,000 respectively compared to $4,213,000 and $18,320,000 for the same periods last year. Stated as a percentage of revenue, our SG&A for the three-month period this year was 28.8% compared to 33.2% last year and for fiscal 2013, our SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 29.3% compared to 30.6% last year. Primarily, the results of improved cash flows and our lower margin rates during 2013 we were able to reduce margin expense on our short-term debt. Specifically, total interest expense during the fourth quarter of 2013 was $82,000 compared to $125,000 during the same period last year. For fiscal 2013, our interest expense was $403,000 compared to $526,000 in 2012.

Taking all the above data into consideration, I am pleased to report that our income before income taxes for the three-month period ended December 31, 2013 and for fiscal 2013 were $926,000 and $4,604,000 respectively compared to $479,000 and $3,296,000 for the same periods last year. Our income after tax was $919,000 for the three-month period ended December 31, 2013 and for fiscal 2013 was $3,225,000 compared to $342,000 and $5,411,000 for the same periods last year. And if you recall, during 2012, P&F recorded a net deferred tax benefit of $2,115,000 resulting from a reduction in the valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets, which was partially offset by the utilization of deferred tax assets in 2012.

During the fourth quarter of this year as a result of a lapse in the statute of limitation relating to an uncertain tax position, we realized the tax benefit of $329,000. And lastly, our basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal year ended 2013 December 31 were $0.87 and $0.83 respectively compared to $1.49 and $1.44 in 2012 again reflecting that net deferred tax benefit in 2012 I just referred to above. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the three-month period ending December 31 of 2013 was $0.24 in both categories compared to $0.09 and $0.08 respectively for the same period in 2012.

At this time, I've asked Joe to provide some insight into our cash flow. Joe?

All right. Thanks, Richard. Just a couple of items. Capital expenditures during fiscal 2013 were $693,000 compared to $1,969,000 in 2012. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during 2013 were: Net deferred income taxes of $1,588,000, depreciation and amortization of $1,559,000, amortization of other intangible assets of $250,000, amortization of debt issue costs of $103,000 and stock-based compensation of $378,000. Other significant components impacting our cash provided by operating activities of $3,242,000 were increases in accounts receivable of $2,022,000 due primarily to the Home Depot and decreases in accounts and accrued expenses payable of $2,649,000 which was partially offset by a decrease in inventory of $1,099,000.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. Lots of numbers flying all over the place. So any questions, of course, please feel free to ask. I would like to acknowledge and of course none of this will be possible without acknowledging all of our employees and our management, all of our subsidiaries for doing such an outstanding job in each of their companies during such sluggish economic times that seem to continue. All of us always believed in our company's products and customers and with our hard work and perseverance P&F continues to improve.

That's the end of our report today and now I'll be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to [ph] Tom Herzog (00:09:46).

Hey guys, [ph] Tom Herzog (00:09:50). Congratulations on a great quarter and a great year.

Thank you.

Thank you.

I've got a series of questions and I'll just scrum through on rapid fire. The first two are just kind of minor items that I think are quick answers, but are there any concerning lawsuits or contingent liabilities or major warranty issues that we need to be aware of right now?

No. There are none of them. Of course that was one last year but that's been resolved.

Got it. Item number two. And I read your stuff pretty quickly this morning, but I ascertain from what that comp costs are down as a percentage in a big way, but in total they're also down. Did I read that correctly? Is that accurate?

Yes, it is.

Yes. That's correct. Just to give you a little flavor on that. Annually, the Compensation Committee sets targets for the bonus program and targets are set for the subsidiary bonus programs with very aggressive targets set for 2013. And while we did have a great year, we actually fell short of the targets established for the various programs. So the bonuses were down. They were still healthy bonuses but down from the prior year and expectations.

And I might add. I might add [indiscernible] (00:11:07) that all these solutions are done with the Comp Committee with the blessing of an independent comp consultant that the company uses.

All right. That's great. And it's like – that was like, so you guys being paid well but at the same time when you've got hard targets, that it obviously aligns management with investors, so that's good. Question number three is, obviously your cash flows are doing great. Your growth has been excellent. You have a lot of positive cash. Have you, during the past year or so since your last call, when I last kind of got an update on this as I was listened to your call, do you have plans for what to do with that cash or are you considering share repurchases, dividends, or investments? I know you've paid down some debt. How are you thinking about that?

Well, we have had a very positive cash flow for the past several years. And of course, we paid down I bet to basically almost nothing, the exception of a few mortgages. And we have had conversations regularly with our board about what to do with the cash and how to handle it; not the cash, but the – remember if we have no cash – if we have no debt and we bought – we still would borrow money to pay a dividend as of now. So it would be a borrow fund situation as of now. Next year at this time, who knows. But in every year, we – every meeting, I should say, the board spends a considerable amount of time discussing uses of cash and what we're going to do. And it's been the collective wisdom as recently as on board meeting last week that we want to take the availability and buy a company with it and that's what we have been looking at doing. And of course, we can have – we have nothing to report quite as of yet. But that is our goal. Our goal is to grow the company. And that's the way that we at this point have decided to use that availability. That's a way of saying it.

Fair enough. Fair enough. Next question, actually let me just start with the comment. As I look at your company, you're obviously well-positioned, solid opportunity for investors. You've got the low leverage, great predictable income stream, excellent long-term management team, people have been on board with you forever which is great to see. Your low P/E on a trailing basis, I want to talk to you about the forward basis and low price to book along with positive momentum so there's not a lot that a person looks at this one like.

First question is on a price to book basis which I calculate – I just back out your tangibles and whatnot and get a price to book and gosh, you guys are only at like a 0.9, which from an investor's perspective, seems like an opportunity. But one of the things I do look at is the property and equipment. And I know this might be hard to answer. So if you can't, that's fine. But when I look at the number on a book value basis and pick it up, do you think that the book value is anywhere near the fair value; if I'm just looking at a price to book kind of an investor look at a ratio like this, would it be fair to say that the fair value of the property and equipment might be in the vicinity of the book value or is that way off?

Well, [ph] Tom (00:14:31), this is Joe. I don't have it in front of me, but just kind of thinking through this a little bit. The Florida Pneumatic property which we've owned for 20 years, I have to believe is you know pretty well depreciated. And while the Florida market is maybe not as robust as it was six or seven years ago, again going back 20 years is the property is way more valuable than certainly what it was worth when we built it. So I'd have to say certainly the market value there is higher than book. The other two properties – if you look at nationwide, that's probably the – that building is only maybe 10 years old or so. I think that one's probably in the zip code of its book value and then Hy-Tech – and again I'm just speaking about the building for the moment. I think that one's probably close to its book value, not a whole lot far off because we haven't really chewed much into depreciation. I don't know if that answers your question or not?

That totally answers it.

Okay.

Okay. My last question is when I look at your stock, I pick it up on a trailing P/E basis and then try to look at the trends around customers and all that type of stuff in your businesses to see what's growing, what's falling off or what might be. Are you able to offer any insights, even though I know that stocks generally trade on a forward basis as best investors can attempt to do; are you able to give any insights as to what we should be thinking about as we're underway in 2014 as to income growth or whether things might be deteriorating. I know you worked three months end of year already. But any insights into that, that you're willing to share with us?

Yeah [ph] Tom (00:16:37). This is Richard. As much as we would like to do that, I think it's been a policy for the last several years. I don't know how long you've been following us, but for the last several years we've chosen not to give forward-looking statements. And so we don't do that really as of now. I think you can judge by the economy not doing so great, I guess we would be a reflection of that in some manner, shape or form. And when the economy does better, we do better. But generally speaking, we and our board haven't – we've shied away from the forward-looking statements at this time.

Okay. I understand. Thank you, guys.

Apologize. I apologize for that.

No, no. That's fine. That's fine.

Thank you for your time, Tom.

Thank you, guys.

Okay.

We'll take our next question from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Thank you. I'll ask a few questions and then get back into the queue, but please come back to me. I wanted to follow-up on a few questions [ph] Mr. Herzog (00:17:37) there just asked, in terms of where things have been going. Certain parts of the Tool business obviously are going great, especially with the addition of Home Depot and all that. But offsetting that has been some weakness on the Hy-Tech side in particular with an unnamed major customer. And obviously if you were to be firing on the Hy-Tech segment of the business at the same time, you've been doing really well in the other part of the business. These numbers would even be humming a whole lot nicer. So focusing on that Hy-Tech side just to try to get a handle on when it might, call it, bottom and start its own rebound, can you talk a little bit about this major customer who has declined year-over-year for much of 2013 and did so again in the fourth quarter. We thought this was a global inventory destocking and a weak market for the customer and not an issue with Hy-Tech products. The revenue line item this last quarter dropped to quite low. Now I think it's below $400,000 for the quarter. Do you feel for the quarter ended December this is the bottoming for this customer or there's even continued weakness here in March quarter which is basically over in [ph] four more (00:19:01) days?

Andrew, the industrial market as a whole, which Hy-Tech is of course a very big part of and by the way so is Florida Pneumatic, don't be misled by their good numbers because that was in the retail sector. They are also feeling that – they are feeling the exact same impact in their industrial side of the business which by the way is our most profitable side of the business.

Right.

They are feeling the same impact that we are feeling at Hy-Tech in the industrial side of the world and not only are we but all of our competitors in that industry are again still feeling the same thing. And everybody – we just had an industry show in the last 60 days and people were looking towards 2014 being a better year, but nothing has happened yet to make anybody feel better about the trend in the industry. I'm sorry to say. I mean I don't know if I would say that things have bottomed out, but we haven't seen worse than what we saw in last year, this first quarter. It hasn't been stellar, but it's not really appreciably worse or appreciably better.

Okay. And so – well, arguably you hope that it's bottomed out. Hasn't gotten worse. You hope it's bottomed out. No sign yet of improvement. Can you give us a little bit of color and guidance? And I don't mean like numbered guidance but a little bit of color and guidance as to the markets your customers serve and the macroeconomic headwinds or hopefully soon tailwinds that we should be looking at to get a feel for things improving?

Yeah. I'll let Joe answer that more, but I mean what we've been in is industry and exploration aerospace. Joe, you can expand on that a little bit.

Yeah. Here's the rundown of the industries. We loosely call power generation things that would include oil and gas exploration, maintenance of all those oil and gas facilities, maintenance of power generation facilities which could be your local coal burning fire plant or oil burning power plant. As Richard said aerospace; lots of general industrial manufacturing across lots of sectors. You know those are the businesses. Those are where we – oh and then a little bit of rail road. So those are the areas we're in. So those are the areas we look to to see what's happening and you could gauge activity there which might be predictive of our future.

So as you describe it Joe, I mean, the four, five highlighted things you talk about are areas that it would seem to be all impacted by the country's energy renaissance, the shale, technology boom, the need to transport by rail, the energy because of infrastructure pipeline whatever these things are, that to me doesn't seem like we're reading about all that headwinds in a horrible environment in that industry. Are there some sub segments that we're more dependent on that have then caused such headwinds?

Sure. A couple of things. One area I missed was heavy construction which is a huge component for us as well which has nothing to do with power generation. You know, fracking is getting all the headlines. It's not a huge market for us. We've got lots of inventory down in Houston available for gas exploration but we're not a huge player. I mean, some of our tools go in there, but we're probably a little more towards the oil than the gas; between the two of them.

Okay.

Yeah. I mean Andrew, I would just say that you know – I don't know how to get it across [indiscernible] (00:23:29). I mean we live it every day. But all of the industry is just suffering from a malaise. It's just not like on – to [indiscernible] (00:23:40) just business is there. We're getting our share of the business and we're certainly not our biggest customer. We're not in any jeopardy or there's no issues with product quality [indiscernible] (00:23:52) business is down so dramatically but they're not doing any worse than they did before. But it's just – it's like pulling teeth every day to get business and we're getting business, but it's like pulling teeth every day.

Okay. Just one on Hy-Tech and then I'll back out of here into the queue, but please come back I've got lots of other questions, is that last call you also said an existing ATP customer would be generating a sustained year-over-year increase for the company. You didn't name the customer so I can't refer to them by name to jog your memory of the last call, but hopefully you know who we're talking about. But has that been the case in Q4 and do you have visibility to expect their sustained growth to continue to provide some additional tailwind into the coming quarters in the ATP segment?

Yeah. Well, I know the customer you're referring to. It's nowhere near the size of the other customer...

Yeah.

...we refer to. That business is in what we call turnaround shut down which in the spring and the fall of each year, major manufacturers do retooling. You hear about the automotive manufacturers who shut down for a few weeks retool their facilities to do the new models. So it's similar to that. That is the business that this customers and so we did get a very nice order in the fall and they are continuing customer, but I don't know that it's so large to really move the needle for the whole company very much so that you'd notice, but they are there. We are shipping them and you know there'll be continuing customers, but it's not.

Andrew I think the strength of Hy-Tech is that we have lots of, I'm not going to call little customers, but not big customers. And this is maybe one that's bigger than a little customer but nowhere near the size of big customer.

Right or the one that's facing its difficulties right now.

Right. Right.

And by the way is that big...

Go ahead.

Is that big customer losing market share or they're maintaining share in the whole industry they serve is just difficult?

I think it's hard to tell, but I think that they're maintaining their lower market share. In the last five years they've lost market share, but in last year or two I think they've been pretty flat.

I mean I'll also say this. This customer if you were to go back and I don't know how much detail there was four years ago or five years ago, they've been very streaky since we've – they have been a customer since we've owned Hy-Tech and they've been very up and down.

Yeah. Although this is the lowest Hy-Tech revenues I've seen since 2010. So I don't know when their last streak was for this particular big customer's weakness?

Yeah it's lower but for the profitability at Hy-Tech is not down here...

It's improved.

...as much as the revenue, yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Which is for us just as important [indiscernible] (00:26:52).

If I could indulge you with one final Tool question, that when you come back to me I'll deal with Hardware in general.

Sure.

On the Florida Pneumatic, you mentioned that with respect to industrial and catalog, you were very active in product development in attempting to take market share. So what I wanted to find out from you is what new products you've introduced in one of any indicators. Do you have evidence in that you've had success in your development expense here?

Well I mean the primary focus of development has been aerospace. We continue to develop a suite of tools that directly competes against the top three or four players there. And we know we've been successful when we go in and someone's been buying one of those competitors' products for 20 years and we come in with something that works better and it's less expensive and they start purchasing from us. So you know that's how we know. And to my knowledge...

So who are some of the big boys that you're trying to take your comp?

Well, the big players in aerospace would be Ingersoll-Rand, Chicago Pneumatic. Those are the two big ones. There's probably a couple others but you know those are the big guys.

Okay. Come back to me. I have other questions but you've completed me on the Tool's.

Thank you.

We'll go next to [indiscernible] (00:28:14).

Good morning. [indiscernible] (00:28:17) 4.9% shareholder. How is everyone?

Fine. Thanks. How are you, [ph] Tim (00:28:23)?

Okay. I've got a question about Florida Pneumatic. We had a 100-plus percent growth in retail customer revenue for the three months and what's the answer – is that also for the year? Yeah, for the year also. My question is, is the lion's share of Florida Pneumatic's growth in retail customer revenue for both the quarter and the year due to the major customer I guess you've named as Home Depot and that's one-time and so growth for that division of Florida Pneumatic, that part of Florida Pneumatic business in 2014 is much more likely to be you know – I know you don't give projections but between 0% and 20% or something much more modest in 2014. And then the follow-up question is when did that load-in or whatever that relationship with Home Depot will start during 2013?

2013 – the relationship started in the fourth quarter of 2012. We started in 2012 and – the end of 2012, and the first quarter of 2013 is when we really loaded up the channels. So, we had a very big unusually large first quarter of the year. And that's – what's your other question, [ph] Tim? (00:29:59)

Well, the sales, even in the fourth quarter of 2013 were up 111% for the retail customer part [indiscernible] (00:30:13) manage. Is the lion's share – just looking at the fourth quarter, is the lion's share of that retail customer growth owing to year – for a fourth quarter or a year-ago fourth quarter, is the lion's share of that growth owing to almost all of it the Home Depot relationship in Q4?

Yeah. The answer to your question is yes. But last year's fourth quarter, we really just started. We just really started. It wasn't really shipping in earnest, but we did a pretty nice thing at the beginning.

And so ...

Yeah. For lion's share is, yes.

Total Florida Pneumatic revenue was up 36.6% for the year. We should obviously – I know you don't give guidance I understand that, but just in terms of a very broad qualitative suite, we should be fully prepared for dramatically lower growth. You are expecting growth, positive growth at Florida Pneumatic for 2014, I take it north of zero percent, right? But don't [indiscernible] (00:31:24).

We don't providing that guidance, but I will say that...

Yeah. Go ahead, Joe. Sorry.

We don't have another big retail customer like Home Depot coming on board, so that – the only growth will get there is growth in their underlying business. And again, just so we're clear, in the first year of a big retail account like that, there is some amount of what we call linefill product that just ends up going into inventory, while it's considered sales for us, it ultimately isn't sales for them. So, even if you have exactly the same sales in the store between the two years, sales from us would actually go down...

Right.

...because we're not going to fill the inventory channel twice, we did it once already. I might tell you sales are going down, but I'm just saying bear that in mind.

Bear that in mind.

And [indiscernible] (00:32:17) one other thing, as you know, if anybody has been following our company for a period of time, we also sell Sears. And Sears, needless to say, is not exactly lighting up the world. So, whatever Home Depot was doing for us, thankfully we have Home Depot, because Sears was not exactly on a positive growth pattern with us or anybody else.

Okay.

Anything else on that, Joe or Richard, or no? I think that's pretty much answered the question, I would say.

Yeah. I mean that all we can about the year-over-year expectations in retail.

That having been said, we do view ourselves of course we're looking at acquisitions, we need – we still like to think of ourselves for 2014. Apart from whether an acquisition comes early, a year later or not at all, we do like to view ourselves as a growth company, I take it.

Yes.

All right. Let me ask a couple of others. If I'm finished I'll be finished or I'll get back in queue. Joe, help me out, it's certainly a financial question here. A couple of different things, the Kitchen the bath product line discontinuation, and this deferred tax deductions to cash tax payments. What is going to be the effect of this stuff. And I'd say this stuff, because I think there's that and maybe something else going on here. I forgot exactly reading the press release. In terms of cash build in working capital, are we going to have a permanent, if you will, gain either from this tax move, inventory reductions, when all those said and done, are we going to have a nice working capital and these tax – reduction in cash tax payments are approximately $2.7 million as the liabilities become due, when will the liabilities become due? Is that going to essentially increase our working capital by the end of the calendar year or earlier or later by $2.7 million?

Okay. Yeah. Good question. As we said in the release to the extent we have taxes [indiscernible] (00:34:36) profits to generate a $2.7 million tax bill, we will not have to write that check because we've got these shields. So, if you – and again this is very rough math, but if you take our profit for 2013 and simply say pre-tax and use that for 2014, I'm making a projection I'm just giving you a what-if example.

I understand.

Use a 40% tax rate, which might be the blend of our federal and our state, that is the number that we – very rough math. He'd write the check to the government for, compare that to the $2.7 million, and you'll see how much we saved and, therefore, how much more cash would fall to the – cash would end up in the bank, so to speak. Did that answer the question?

Yeah. I think, it does. I think it does very well, basically we do not expect to pay what any significant cash federal income taxes in 2014, right?

I mean, I would say if 2014 were a repeat of 2013 in terms of pre-tax, we pay very little. I don't have in front of me, but probably next to nothing in cash taxes.

Okay. That's a good answer and that helps. And [indiscernible] (00:35:54) the cash, additional cash build, that's a kind of exciting. Anything more on that or no? I guess that you've answered the question.

No, I think you've got it.

Let me ask one other than – one and back in the queue. For the purposes of understanding the relative strength of the fourth quarter and the year generally with your statements about bonuses, what was the dollar amount? Now, are all bonuses actually accrued and paid in Q4, is that the way that works?

Yeah.

...as opposed to have spread over the four quarters [indiscernible] (00:36:26)?

Bonuses are accrued throughout the year. However, sometimes it is difficult to know in the middle of the year where we think we're going to end up. We are fairly conservative in our accounting, and we do our best to get there. But again, some of these stratagems are very cliffy, and if you just miss, the bonus falls off precipitously so it's not a perfect sign to get there, but...

And you don't adjust the prior three quarters actually.

No, we don't. Certainly, if it was material enough, we would have to. But just so we're clear, we also do not pay those bonuses until March of the following year. So, from a cash flow standpoint, that is where the impact would be.

Okay. What was the amount that was accrued in Q4 2013 for bonuses versus Q4 2012 or at least the net change, if you quickly – because you said that helps...

I don't know if I even have that number. And if I did, I'm not sure I would be disclosing that number. I'm thinking about what we said in the [indiscernible] (00:37:42).

Well, I'm trying to get a qualitative – preferably quantitative, but a qualitative sense [indiscernible] (00:37:47) of – with our half of our fourth quarter change in pre-tax income owing to bonus reduction [indiscernible] (00:37:57) I'm trying to get with this and...

I don't know I don't think it was that significant, no.

Okay. Where the total amount of bonuses paid in 2013 lower than 2012 or higher?

Yes.

Yes.

Yes. Absolutely lower than 2012.

Lower than 2012. Okay. I will get back in queue, is there any...

As we mentioned that earlier on the call, maybe you missed, Jen. We mentioned that earlier in the call I believe.

Okay. I probably didn't then.

Yeah.

Okay. I'll be back in queue, but I probably have another question or two, so please come back to me.

Thank you, [ph] Tim. (00:38:36)

We'll go next to [ph] Brian Cornell with ATG Investments. (00:38:39)

Good morning, gentlemen. I have just a few questions about some of your major customers, Home Depot, Sears, and the major Hy-Tech customer. With regards to the Hy-Tech customer, I'm just curious in terms of any visibility on when – if and when you think their demand for new product might pick up or continue to go down. Is there business seasonality component, is there a certain time of year when you have a better feel for where they are, and what their business needs are or is it pretty steady throughout the year?

A couple of things about this customer, there an international business, so while we ship to them here, this product ends up – could end up anywhere in the world. They give us very little visibility regarding future orders. And we do our best to try to gauge their inventory levels. But this happens – it has happened for seven years. These guys have been up and down. And it's just the way it is. And there's not much we can do about it. So, I'm sorry I can't give you a better answer than that, but it's extremely unpredictable.

No problem. If you were to compare their – how much product they bought in 2013 versus the prior seven years, is that at the very bottom, is it in the middle, how does it fit?

I mean that's a fair question. I think it's near the bottom, very much near the bottom.

Okay. Got it. And then in terms of Home Depot, just curious if you could share a little bit more about the nature of the relationship, any sense of how quickly products offer their shelves. They've committed to a certain level of inventory to buy forward-looking into 2014. Any more context of how that relationship works would be helpful.

Yeah. I guess it's somewhat anecdotal, but the relationship is excellent. We do feel that the product that we're selling is doing better than the product that had been sold prior to our relationship with them. The in-store sales seem did indicate that. They do not have to commit to certain purchase levels. That is not how the relationship works, but everything is going well, and they continue to be open to other ideas we have about products.

Great. And then, the lastly what's your – I think we've all heard about – and Richard alluded to it, the stores are closing, the growth trajectory isn't that positive for them, but I'm just curious where – you actually mentioned an increase in the sales for your product this year. I was just wondering how you think that's happening, if it's being sold in catalogs or in stores and how do you see that going forward?

Well, we did have an increase in them in sales with them last year. I can't really give you great explanation why our sales were up and they were down in general, but certain – our feeling there is that, over the long run, we're going to shrink with them as everybody else is going to shrink with them. But I will remind everyone that we feel that those customers, if not satisfied by walking into a Sears store and not wanting to go into Sears store sort of purchase an air tool product, we also have a customer the next best thing or maybe a better thing which would be our products available at Home Depot, which in some cases is across the street. So, while it is concerning that they are shrinking, I wouldn't call it alarming and that the retreat will be very much muted for us as we feel those customers to the extent they're going to buy a tool will buy it at Home Depot more likely than not.

Having said that, it would have been the best of both worlds to have both – on all cylinders, but that's a little out of our control.

Sure. Okay. And just one last question if you were to compare the margins between Home Depot and yours, I'm curious how they compare.

Well, that's an excellent question. It's a two-part story. The gross margin at Sear – at Home Depot is higher, but ultimately there are below the line expenses that are greater. Frankly, we end up at almost about the same place between the two of them more or less. And some of it is really just where people where that – where each customer chooses to you know push the buttons. So really it's not a great deal of different, but it does look a little different if you're just comparing gross margins.

Okay, gentlemen. Thank you for your time.

You're welcome.

Thank you.

We'll go next to follow-up from Andrew Shapiro with Mondale Capital Management.

Okay, thanks. In terms of a follow-up, one on Tools, and then I want to move into Nationwide. Regarding the Tools, the tools that we sell into Sears has a benefit that they're being done under the CRAFTSMAN label. And then Sears spins out, although the most recent spinout being Lands' End, that won't impact it, but if Sears has spun out prior businesses and potentially evolves to where the CRAFTSMAN asset for Sears is enhanced or monetized and maximized because they're – it's not just going to be in the Sears stores. Are you experiencing albeit probably in small scale, but are you experiencing some tailwinds from those various spinouts and you're supplying these tools into these new purportedly or over time increasingly independent entities?

There really has not been anything really substantive, except for Ace Hardware, which I think we discussed that in the past with you with our stockholders we sell the CRAFTSMAN – Sears sell the CRAFTSMAN line [indiscernible] (00:45:16), and of course we're the supplier to them. But again, we've been doing that for probably two years now I'm guessing.

So, when Sears spun out, these other entities Sears is still the central buyer for that all?

Yes.

Yes. But right now they are. Ultimately, that's going to change. But yes.

Okay. So that could change. And so as one talks about well the difficulty Sears may be facing, these independent entities may thrive on their own anyway.

And that's our hope of course, but to be determined.

Okay. Regarding Nationwide on the hardware side, a few questions. You talked about the OEM, an OEM customer that had experienced a decent size increase that contributed to this quarter's good results. When you talk about it that way, is that taking seasonality into effect and this isn't a seasonal upswing? Because I don't recall actually the – I don't know if the fourth quarter is the strong season anyway. But is it seasonal? Is this an increase from the OEM something you view as non-recurring or is it potentially a new sustained level of activity?

Yeah, I would say it's more seasonal.

In general, that product is an extremely seasonal product. Having said that, they chose – we had a lot of orders from those guys in Q4. I can't – I certainly don't think that is going to be the way it's going to be. I see no underlying reason for those deals to increase like that going forward. Other than the housing starts made a dramatic increase, because that's where this product's going, new houses.

What is the product that's been moving out like this? Was that a sizable increase for the OEM?

It's something that has to do with drainage and foundations without getting into a lot of detail about it. But it is very much related to brand new construction.

Okay. And then can you discuss and describe your expense – you've mentioned this before, but now you've get a lot more real estate in the press release. Can you discuss and describe your expanded geographic footprint that you're both experiencing and also further that you're continuing to seek the steps you're taking?

Geographic, I don't think I understand the question, Andrew. Could you...

Well, you said that you are continuing a process of rolling out new products and accessories and expanding a national marketing campaign and that you are – I guess, making headway in such efforts here. Or is that in the OEM customers.

Yeah, well – I think, we're – what we were referring to there is a pretty heavy expansion and an application of resources in the Western United States. Historically, Nationwide was a Southeast and even a Florida based company. When we purchased it in 2002, I couldn't give you the exact percentage, but I'd say 75% of the sales were in the Southeast and probably half of the sales were Florida. And we've made a concerted effort to change that and we've really accelerated that program here in 2014. And we're excited about the opportunity, because that's just someplace where we don't have a lot of share or not as much as we think we can get. So we're hopeful.

Right. And that's what you were talking about you national market campaign?

Yeah.

Okay. And regarding the Kitchen and bath business, it was either going to be a sale or a shutdown. I think from your release, I just want to confirm, it ended up being the sale, albeit now with a lot of proceeds. But the way the transaction got structured is someone took that off.

Yes.

That's correct.

And the resulting deferred tax impact and tax shield, I think you discussed with [ph] Mr. Stabosz's (00:49:41) question, because I ask where – can you update us on where you stand on your federal NOLs, and we'll call it your state NOLs and the states you think you'll be able to use it because I know you've got captive NOLs in Virginia?

Yeah. I don't have the NOL information in front of me. I think when we last spoke at the end of Q3, the NOLs were in the $1.5 million to $2 million range. So, that obviously moves a little bit and that we've had a call fourth quarter profit. We do still have some NOLs left in 2014, but I suspect that we'll be almost out of that by the end of the year. I think it will be done with NOL shields. And again, like as you discussed, unless we start another business in Virginia, we're not going to be able to take advantage of those NOLs.

Yeah. I know the state ones I understand. And then by the way, if you found an acquisition in Virginia, are there other reasons why we wouldn't go there? I can't remember, if there was divestiture as well from the former subsidiary that was bankrupt. If there was a reason to stay out of the state.

No, there's no reason to stay out of the state. But again it's one of 50 states and the chances of an acquisition being in Virginia are...

One in 50.

One in 50, I understand. Okay. So then, with the NOLs and I guess you also have a separate deferred tax shield from the Nationwide transaction that's above and beyond the NOLs, is that right?

Yes.

Okay, great. So with those, the key is obviously to recognize this as soon as possible and the way to do that is to get some incremental organic or acquisitive pre-tax income. Can you give us a little bit of update on the narrowing, the focus, where things stand on the acquisition program in a recent prior quarter. You took a write-off from an acquisition that had gone down the path sufficiently to incur enough cost that you had initially, I guess, thought to – they're capitalized [indiscernible] (00:51:52) incurred in one particular quarter that they were mentionable, where do things stand now in your processing pipeline?

Well, again, we cannot comment on anything specific other than say, we are extremely aggressive in trying to find something and see no reason we won't be able to do it. We've done this before, when we've had the availability and sometimes it takes a little while, but I see no reason to see – see no reason why we aren't going to get a deal done. But I can't tell you when and I can't tell you much more much more about it, but...

Okay. And on the current available – one of those indicators last quarter you gave as to the scope and size of what might be acquirable was the availability under your current lines of credit and your current net assets plus of course the collateral value of whatever you acquire. Can you update us on the current availability under P&F's lines of credit, please?

I'm going to say $17 million.

Okay. And Richard and/or you – I think Richard actually, specifically talked about how and you acknowledged our debts pretty much down to nothing but for the mortgages.

Right.

So, with the production assisting the profits and the debt down to nothing but for the mortgages, okay, and we have a – we have a quantifiable amount of tax shield that's ahead of us, okay. And I appreciate that the most recent board meeting and in every board meeting that you guys have mentioned because I talk about it in every quarter, and you joke about how I mentioned it every quarter. The talk of a dividend has come up and again the view is to differ instituting or starting the dividend, until you have even more of a cushion above and beyond debt down to nothing now.

And that too instituted [indiscernible] (00:54:04) at this point in time would involve borrowing. But then at the same time, we have a lot of borrowing capacity. I just want to – because I know board members eventually listen to this and you, Richard, are obviously a meaningful [indiscernible] (00:54:20) within the boardroom, given your share size relative to everyone else.

I just would like to point out that with 3.6 million, 3.7 million shares, we're a very small microcap company. I'm very happy that [ph] Mr. Herzog and Mr. Cornell (00:54:42) had joined us longtime regulars here on the call and that's great. But the population base, the investor base that looks at a company of our microcap size, even after you make an acquisition, is a very small population base. And it's made smaller by the fact that, right now, with our positive cash flow, we're not a dividend paying entity.

And when I talk about a dividend in the past – now I wanted to just make sure, Richard, you understand and the board understand, it's with two mindsets. There's one mindset which is a dividend that would be either more sizable and sustainable or special in leverage recaps scenario that I understand is balanced hand-in-hand with the idea of making an acquisition. But then there's another aspect of a dividend, one that would be quite small perhaps maybe a $0.05 a quarter, maybe even a little bit less, but a small sustainable one, not even one that is telegraphed to expand over time.

But one that makes this company technically in everyone's screens, everyone's radar an income generating company. In other words, a company qualified to be added to the mutual funds that are known as income mutual funds that can only invest in companies that issue dividends. If one was to widen the population base of investors who might consider our microcap company, our valuation multiple, which is still puny and ridiculously low right now, would be only modestly expand it, but any expansion of that valuation multiple is a reduction in the company's overall core cost of capital.

And so, I think it ought to be considered, I would say, progressively by the board and not viewed as a mutually exclusive decision with that of making an acquisition. But one that is towards the step of finding ways of expanding our valuation multiple, enhancing shareholder value, making any acquisition or activity that we do with capital, more creative, because we lower our cost of capital by raising our equity valuation multiple from ridiculously low levels to potentially a little higher levels or alternatively – Yeah.

Andrew, excuse me. I don't mean to interrupt you. I hear you, you're kind of giving a circular argument there. Let me just explain to you. Well, let me just say it to you. I'm a bigger beneficiary than anybody else, if we have a dividend. So selfishly, I would want to do it. If it makes sense, I would be doing it. And if it's – and something the board decides to do, I won't complain. I'm the bigger beneficiary by far from all of you. So, to me, I understand what you're saying.

But having said that, as [ph] Tim (00:58:14) said earlier and we have said many, many times, we and the board feel this right now is a growth company. If we fail in that endeavor, then we at some point and it can't be too far away, at some point we would have to reassess and say maybe we cannot grow the company. And then we would have to look at it with a different set of facts. Having said that, if we gave a $0.05 a quarter as an example, which is something you said which will be $0.20 a year, I hardly think it would gain anybody's attention.

Okay. Now that – I disagree, it's not a question of gaining attention.

Correct.

First off, it's about a 3% yield, Richard, but the point is that you either qualify or you don't qualify for a variety of funds that would invest in small – other companies, because you are a dividend-issuing company, period, end of story, it's either you buy, you don't. Now, does it going to move the needle a lot, no, but it moves the needle and it's something that makes sense.

I hear you. We all hear you. We hear you regularly and we do not, and I surely do not minimize what you say. I understand it. We all understand it very, very well, and we talk about it regularly...

Right.

...and we will talk about it again in our next meeting in [indiscernible] (00:59:33).

And similarly with such a low multiple and thus imputed a high return on our capital when you're looking for an acquisition, there is an acquisition right there in the near to you and that acquisition right in the near to you is our company's own stock.

Okay.

And if you're now down at a level of debt, no debt, other than mortgages, you're down at a level of debt this company has not seen and I appreciate no need to and no desire to go to the levels of debt that the company had gotten to the point of, but it's high time that the company alternatively consider a buyback of some shares in the open market as an alternative to an acquisition because frankly as there's very few companies out there that you're looking at that are as cheap as our own company in the near at these current stock prices.

Okay. I hear you. I don't hear a question coming, so I hear you. We all hear you and I'd like to say is we will revisit it, and we do every quarter and we will continue to do so. Next? If you have a question, please ask Andrew?

No, I have no more questions.

Okay. Thank you very much and thank you for your opinion and your time.

We'll go next to [ph] Timothy Stabosz (01:00:58).

I would like to second all the points that Andrew made. I think they're all valid. And I would appeal to the board, the broader board to consider those points, I think a dividend will help increase the long-term ownership based on the stock, raise the stock price and possibly allow the company even use stock in the future to grow faster if it achieves the valuation that's reflective of the underlying asset value and multiple of the income.

Okay.

A couple of follow-ups related to that, we've been discussing this. I appreciate the notion that we're a growth company on one hand, but it does need to be balanced and it kind of goes along with points that Andrew made. What is our attitude, Richard or Joe, towards now I use this phrase, please don't take it as being flippant on my part, but what is our attitude towards piling on goodwill any acquisitions. We've had write offs before of goodwill, it's been a spotty record on acquisitions, I guess I would say.

What can you speak broadly to that because it's something that's a value investor and your core shareholder base frankly is value investors. I know a few of the people in the call and I know that you are very aware of assets and the downside protection that assets provide, understand book value of this company overall. What is the board's attitude on a very broad basis towards piling on goodwill? You've done before in the past, it's clipped our wings to say the least, can you give some reassurance?

Andrew, I can't speak for the board. I can only speak for my...

I am not Andrew. I am not Andrew.

I'm sorry. I'm sorry, [ph] Tim (01:02:40). I apologize. I can't speak for the board. I can speak as the guy who do on most of the M&A basic work that. We look at all aspects of an acquisition. I would have to say that. The level of goodwill that we might bring on is pretty far down the list, because it doesn't really make a whole lot of difference, if you're confident in the future cash flow streams, what the goodwill is, if you're paying the right multiple and you've got the right after acquisition benefits, I'm not sure we care. If you're talking about goodwill in the sense that we've overpaid for a company, well, that's a different matter. But inherently, a goodwill number as a percentage of the purchase price is fairly far down the list of considerations and I'm pretty sure it would be for the Board of Directors as well.

Okay, I appreciate your straightforwardness on the answer. Let me just ask you Joe or Richard, I guess, we have improved the company's results significantly over the last few years. That having been said, from an investment standpoint in buying a company or making acquisition, P&F had $3.2 million in net income for the year, that's about an 8.5% return on equity and you can adjust accordingly for what the taxes should have been and all that, federal taxes, but just going with that number, 8.5% of return equity, roughly ballpark.

And if you adjust that return on equity for the fair value of our assets and different people could say different things and I understand my representation and no one else's but you could say the return on equity of fair value of assets maybe 7% for P&F. So our returns, as it stands now, are nothing you write Home about overall, which argues for consideration. If our book value right now is $10.50, give or take, and it could be $12.50 or something like in my representation, no one else's, a fair value. It does argue for the double accretion, if you will, of reduction of our shares outstanding, create higher earnings per share, we buy shares back, higher earnings per share and also higher book value per share. You have to get a very high return in any acquisition to justify not buying back stock as the alternative and I'm as puzzling for the board's credibility and I think there's an attack today, but I'm puzzling to the credibility of the board publicly which damaged its stock price when they're looking at acquisitions versus buying back the stock because it does seem on its face that that's the best investment. I hope the board's aware of that. And so, it's said that not with malice or hostility, but with puzzlement and concern.

Yeah. This violence is disconcerting as well...

No, it's not disconcerting, obviously, it's just going to...

We were having a private conversation to answer your question, I hope that was okay.

[ph] Tim (01:05:48)...

Sure.

...I can speak – and I can only speak as one person of the board and I have bought stock over the price of the stock at my options. When my options came due, I paid higher than the market value of the stock. So...

I appreciate you answering the questions. [indiscernible] (01:06:07), if you would please.

So, I believe that and I know the board does too. We have not had a buyback program within the company for the last I believe year or so. And the reason we didn't was because there were things going on in the company that gave us that our lawyers advised us we couldn't have a buyback program because we had things going on that was, let's call it inside information at the time. So when you have a company and you have a fluid situation that, that kind of situation pops up from time-to-time. And when the time comes that we have nothing that our lawyers can bless us on and we can do it, then of course we would buy that.

Well, you were willing to buy back [ph] MyBlock (01:06:50) a couple of years ago?

We didn't have anything going on at the time. Yeah. We didn't have anything going on at that time.

And the concern, I just would ask you to acknowledge that concern for peace of mind of the shareholder is, if the perception is that the company is going for growth for growth sake, then and broader considerations, they're not a concern then one wonders about the shareholder value mandate being fulfilled.

I don't know that we said anything about going for growth for growth sake. We make acquisitions that are accretive. I wouldn't make and I wouldn't recommend an acquisition to the board that didn't have a high return or a high expected return. So I don't understand your comment about growth for growth sake.

Well, I mean you haven't really responded to my notion that why isn't the company stock its best investment. I mean its book value, its true value of its assets is higher than the book value, the stock today grows, I mean...

I think Richard did respond. We are somewhat handcuffed in terms of how we can buy. And I would also say this ...

All right.

... that when we didn't have a full blown buyback program, it was very difficult to accumulate any meaningful number of shares. I think over the course of the decade...

All right. All right.

...we might have accumulated 200,000 shares, a decade. So, I think there is outside of some sort of major program and I'm not even sure we can do that but just going out there in the market, we're just not going to get much.

And [ph] Tim (01:08:25), several of our board members have requested that they could be released to buy stock. And our lawyers again for the same reason have not done it. So, I can't – we're not going to debate on this, it has nothing to do with the 2013 results. I said – we said it, I'm not trying to be sure with you. We gave you the best answers we could. And we hear you and we'll revisit that situation again in our next board meeting and if there's no inside information or things that are going on that the lawyers are comfortable with, releasing us, certainly that will be something that we will look into.

How do we know that that decision is ultimately made by the board and not by Richard Horowitz?

It's not.

How do we know that?

[ph] Tim, Tim (01:09:08)...

Do you have a question in company?

Do you have a question about the 2013 results, [ph] Tim (01:09:12)?

Because it's almost not credible...

[ph] Tim (01:09:15), do you have a question about the 2013 results, please?

Well, we've been talking about the subject, the first question I brought it up, si I'm just following up on that. So...

Any other questions you like about the results?

It is a concern and I appreciate you hearing that concern. So, I think as far as the 2013 results, can you say more about getting out of, Joe, the Kitchen and bath, now you told me about the tax situation, that's exciting like I said, because of the working capital reductions and what – here's my question, is there – you mentioned the fact that there's a large inventory carry. Is there anything beyond the tax benefits we're going to get against our income or is there any gain we're going to be getting incrementally material related to that inventory and getting out and are we getting the $1 million or $2 million or better or what?

No, all the benefits of that acquisition are done by December 31. I will say this that the profitability or return on the assets employed for that business were below the average for Nationwide. So I don't know if this answers your question but going forward our return on our assets there will be higher than it has been historically.

I believe that's all I have. Thank you for the stimulating call.

You're welcome.

Nice to hear from you, [ph] Tim (01:10:45).

We'll go next to [ph] Tom Herzog (01:10:50).

Hey, guys. Just one last follow-up question and then I'm done. By the way, I appreciate the straightforward communications you guys have on the stuff. It's certainly an interesting call. The comments are made twice that it's still a growth company or it is a growth company and certainly over time and as you consider acquisitions with the cash, obviously the decisions by the board only be on an accretive basis that all makes sense to me.

My question is this, if you looked at the existing lines of business and this isn't looking for forward guidance because you answered that loud and clear, I understood that. But the existing lines of business, I was trying to triangulate the questions and the answers from the various participants around Home Depot and the kind of buying inventory upfront yet, considering other products and maturing relationship or maybe you pick up more there. The Sears stuff was a little bit of pressure that can't be the major customer and Hy-Tech that you may pick that back up depending on what plays there.

My question is this, it sounds to me like if you took the whole business for the current existing lines of business, extract out any other decisions around share repurchase or acquisitions of accretive acquisitions of company companies, it sounds like it's still a growth business and maybe not over a quarter or so but as you look at it over time based on the existing lines of business, relationships with your vendors, et cetera, that that feel that future growth is still where you see the company going. Would that be a first statement just kind of in summary of what I again tried to triangulate from the various responses for the questions?

Yeah. [ph] Tom (01:12:32), this is Joe. I would say that we wake up every morning figuring out – trying to figure out the ways of growing the company and applying our resources to channels and markets that are growing. And while sometimes we – lots of times we're winning, in a few areas we're just treading water. But we absolutely view ourselves as a growth company. We're not harvesting these companies. We are investing in R&D and improvements in manufacturing techniques and...

And people.

...and people. And so, yeah, we view this as a growth company. I think if we had a different view, we could probably raise profits and stabilize cash flow and probably count on not very little growth, but that's not the way we view it.

Excellent. That's helpful, guys. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you, [ph] Tom (01:13:23).

And we'll go to Andrew Shapiro.

Yeah, follow-up. I just want to confirm, is the board advised and is it aware of the existence of SEC rules, especially 10b-5 plans that can be filed to allow the company to execute its buybacks during Windows even when it's in possession of non-public info once it establishes a plan?

Yes, absolutely.

Okay. And finally, I wanted to confirm since the board meeting just took place last week whether it was brought up and discussed, our request that the board consider de-staggering the board?

We did discuss it, and we could respond it to you on that, Andrew and many companies do it and many companies do not do it. And we are very comfortable with our governance for a size company we are at this time.

Right. Thank you.

And there are no further questions in the queue.

Thank you all for your time today on the call and we look forward to speaking to you with our Q1 numbers in May. Have a nice day. Thank you.

And that concludes today's presentation. We thank you for your participation.