Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino, Jr. — Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the 2017 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. Today, after management's remarks, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'll turn the conference over to Mr. Richard Goodman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, and welcome to P&F Industries' 2017 conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I'd like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to, exposure to fluctuations in energy prices, debt and debt service requirements; borrowing and compliance with covenants under our credit facility; disruption in the global capital and credit markets; the strength of the retail economy in the United States and abroad; supply chain disruptions; customer concentration; adverse changes in currency exchange rates; impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill; unforeseen inventory adjustments or the changes in purchasing patterns; market acceptance of products; competition; price reductions; interest rates; litigation and insurance; retention of key personnel; acquisition of businesses; regulatory environments; threat of terrorism and related political instabilities and economic uncertainty; and information technology systems failures and attacks; and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including among others, as described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our other filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Rich Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Thank you so much, Richard. Good morning everybody. Thank you, all, for joining us this morning for our 2017 year ending conference call. I will begin today's call with a brief summary of the company's 2017 results and have this data compared to the prior year. However, I direct you to our release earlier today for more information. The release presented P&F's balance sheet, statement of operations per share data along with most of our management's discussion and analysis. I wish to remind you that the purpose of this call is to discuss and review the company's 2017 results only, as such, I kindly request that you please confine your questions and comments to the topic at hand.

I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information and provide an update on any key events affecting the company after which we will move to our Q&A session. The company's consolidated financial revenue for 2017 was $58,974,000 compared to $57,276,000 in 2016.

Florida Pneumatic's 2017 revenue was $46,471,000 compared to $45,282,000 during 2016. The net improvement over the prior year was due to a $6.2 million increase in Aerospace revenue driven by the Jiffy acquisition in April of 2017 and that was partially offset by a $5 million decline in our retail business.

As previously disclosed, we elected not to renew the sales service agreement with Sears, which expired September 30 of last year. This decision was the primary factor for $4.3 million of year-over-year decline in the Sears' revenue. Also industrial/catalog revenue improved 14.9% in 2017 compared to the prior year with Automotive revenue down 4.6%.

Hy-Tech's revenue for 2017 was $12,503,000 (sic) [$12,512,000] (00:04:27) compared to $11,994,000 the prior year. The most significant component of the net increase was a growth of the Engineered Solutions initiative which now accounts for more than 8.5% of our total revenue in Hy-Tech, up from 2.3% a year ago.

The company's consolidated gross margin for 2017 was 35.8% compared to 33.1% for 2016. Improvement in Hy-Tech's gross margin was a driving force in this improvement. Key factors contributing to Hy-Tech's improved year-over-year gross margin are firstly better product mix, secondly, greater overhead absorption and lastly a reduction in charges relating to its computation of an allowance for slow moving inventory. These changes during 2017 contributed to Hy-Tech's overall gross margin enabling it rise to 29.2% from 18.8% in 2016.

Florida Pneumatic's 2017 gross margin improved to 37.5% from 36.8% due mostly to customer and product mix. Our selling, general, and administrative expenses for 2017 was $21,034,000 million compared to $19,610,000 in the prior year. The most significant factor causing this increase was the addition of Jiffy's operating expenses of approximately $1,673,000.

Further during 2017, we incurred approximately $503,000 of M&A activity related expenses, most of which related to the acquisition of the Jiffy business assets. Additionally in 2017, we recorded a charge of $158,000 relating to an increase of the fair value of the contingent consideration payable to the sale of Jiffy which of course is good news for our company.

Lastly the company's interest expense during 2017 was $168,000 down from 2016's total interest cost of $181,000. Taking the data above into consideration of 2017, we're reporting a pre-tax loss of $249,000 from continuing operations compared to a pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $8,638,000 in 2016. On an after-tax basis for 2017, we're reporting a net loss from continuing operations of $884,000 compared to a net loss of $5,683,000 in 2016.

And lastly our 2017 basic and diluted loss per share from continuing operations was $0.25 compared to $1.58 for 2016 which was driven by the sale of Nationwide. During 2017 there were no earnings per share related to discontinued operations whereas in 2016 we earned $3.50 per share. In total for 2017, we are reporting a loss per share of $0.25 compared to net income per share of $1.92 in 2016.

Again as a reminder, I refer to this morning's press release which gives more color to all of these numbers. At this time, Joe Molino will discuss our cash flows.

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during 2017 were $910,000 compared to $1,660,000 during 2016. Significant non-cash items affecting our cash flows during 2017 were: depreciation and amortization of $1,309,000, amortization of other intangible assets of $800,000, the increase in estimated fair value of contingent consideration payable to the seller of the business asset of Jiffy of $158,000, stock based compensation of $118,000, amortization of debt issue cost of $64,000 and deferred income taxes of $912,000 driven primarily from the recent changes in the tax code.

Significant components which impacted cash provided by operating activities and continuing operations during 2017 were increases of $1,384,000 in accounts receivable, decreases of $1,913,000 in inventories and a decrease of $1,857,000 in prepaid expenses and other current assets.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. As always, I would like to acknowledge all of our employees and management for their hard work and devotion and dedication to our company. All of us have always believed in our company's products and our customers, and the hard work [indiscernible] (00:09:04) of theirs, P&F continues to improve. That's the end of our report for today and we'd be happy to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Shapiro with Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Good morning, guys. I've got a bunch of questions and I'll ask a few [indiscernible] (00:09:36) others in here. You just got a few questions [indiscernible] (00:09:40) on the two -

Hey, Andrew. Could you please speak up, we can't – we're having trouble hearing you. Sorry?

Hi. Sorry. I've got, could you hear me better now?

Yeah, yes.

Okay. I have a several questions as you know, well, after two of them I'll back out into the queue here.

Sure.

First of, regarding your two new acquisitions this year a few questions on Jiffy and Pneumatic. So after owning Jiffy now for several months actually a few quarters almost a year, what type of consolidation cost synergies do you see, if any, which really weren't on the front burner. And more importantly you should have a decent amount of visibility now on the main focus which were revenue expansion synergies that you would expect to see.

Are you getting any of your legacy P&F products into the customers acquired by Jiffy? Is it going the other way around where some of the Jiffy products are going into your existing customers that Jiffy didn't have, can you expand?

Sure. I'll just go in reverse order. At this point, we don't have any of our legacy P&F product that wasn't Aerospace-related Aerospace related going into Jiffy. We do have – some of the Aerospace product we used to produce that was not Jiffy of course, that is now being sold in the Jiffy. I don't know that it's particularly material, but it's certainly positive and where there are somewhat redundant tools in cases where the lead time is shorter or something that was a legacy product in Aerospace, we can satisfy the customer a little sooner than we can with Jiffy because we kind of have inventory of the imported product.

Secondly, in terms of other revenue expansion opportunities, we are working on getting some other product into Jiffy, but those requires some refinement on the development side but we're pretty optimistic about some of those opportunities. I don't know that if we mentioned in prior call, but there is some overlap between the Florida Pneumatic, what I'll call their legacy sales force and the Jiffy sales force, we've somewhat integrated those. And I would say that's gone incredibly well at the folks at Florida Pneumatic that have taken on the Jiffy line, seem to be very doing very well with it. And I think we've really increased Jiffy's footprint nationally as a result of that that expansion.

And in terms of the growth of Jiffy, we're optimistic and it's exceeding our expectations clearly in terms of orders and revenue.

Okay. And then with respect to the Pneumatics, what type of cross selling might you be able to do with Pneumatics? I don't know if you acquired clients as much as, I know you brought in and it was more of an asset purchase and an engineered product, but are there cross-selling – cross-synergies regarding legacy P&F and Jiffy Tools and with the Pneumatics clientele and vice versa?

Yeah. I don't know if exactly it's related to having Jiffy but it's certainly didn't hurt where we sit – we are talking to a couple of large Aerospace customers, some were Jiffy accounts, some weren't Jiffy accounts and we're working on some of the R&D work in conjunction with these potential accounts. And we were pretty confident we're going to have some success with the Pneumatics products in some of the largest aircraft manufacturers in the world.

Okay and could you provide, you've done this just right now with your last answer but if there's any more color on your experience and opportunity with Pneumatics that gave you comfort to say in your press release that you're excited about its prospects?

Well, and as I said we're in very, very detailed discussions, serious discussions with major aircraft manufacturers worldwide regarding Pneumatics product. So these people don't take these discussions lightly and given the level of work we're doing, I'm optimistic that it will lead to something.

But I'll just caution you in telling you this is essentially one product business and it's not going to be – it's not going to be a revelation, so it's not going to be a $20 million business, it's going to be a very very nice, product line for us with good profitability, it's not going to – it's going to definitely help the company a lot but not like – not game-changing.

And you didn't [indiscernible] (00:14:52) for either -

They're getting paid close to – very well, [indiscernible] (00:14:55).

Okay. Let me back out I do have obviously a lots of other questions but in case -

I don't know if there's anybody else on the call, Andrew, to ask a question. We'll move on – we'll just check on the [indiscernible] (00:15:06).

On the corporate side here - [indiscernible]

(00:15:07)

– Hy-Tech in Florida of the $503,000 – I guess was the M&A non-occurring expense what was in Q4? [ph]

I don't know (00:15:24) if there was a great deal in Q4 most of that – as the Jiffy deal closed in April we would have had most of that expense probably in the front half of the year – I mean there were some – as you know we have ongoing M&A activity all the time there were some other things we were working on throughout the year, but I will have to say a very little of that expense could have been in Q4.

Right. [indiscernible] (00:15:48) release is just for the full year and we don't have the 10-K to back out from the Q yet to give – break this stuff.

Yeah.

What was the change in the Jiffy contingent obligation estimate for the full year – Q4 charge?

Yes, depending on the number we gave you – just you know how this works. So, at the close of the Jiffy transaction, we needed to estimate what we thought the ultimate contingent consideration would be, and then beyond that, that number gets reduced – I'll call it time value for money, although it's a little more complex than that.

So, as the year progress, we were certainly expecting that number to grow simply through what I'll call time values money, having said that, orders have been such and sales have been such, and opportunities have been such, we were very comfortable and so we were obligated to increase that estimate on a go forward basis, so the bulk of that difference, I think it was [ph] $100,000 (00:16:55) – bulk of the change for the year which is a $158,000 was in Q4, but we had a little bit of a it in Q2 and Q3, not much. I'm going to say, $10,000, $20,000, but the rest – the most of it was Q4.

Okay. And when you say you're evaluating the development of a more advanced technologies in P&F Tool platforms, I just want to clarify – are you referring to evaluating others development, and just as you're monitoring what others are doing? Or this is you're considering P&F doing more development internally versus maybe purchasing it?

It's both. It is absolutely both – depending on the technology, some things we're capable of doing internally, some things were – we're better off working with someone else, so the answer to your question is both.

Okay. And then can you update us on the timing of the implementation of the 10b5 buyback plan and how many shares to-date. I think you've said you have been acquired so far in the average price paid. Can you provide what you did in the fourth quarter or/and is that number through the end of the year that was in the press release or is that through the date of the press release?

Your last question I don't know the answer to and we get an answer to in a minute or two. Just to remind you all that will be in the K tomorrow. We have slated for $25,000 every 90 days beginning at the end of August last year and I can tell you we were, we maxed that out in the first six months. I know we hit our $50,000 target. So we have to take a little bit of a break, to 50,000 share target, excuse me. And then we needed to take a month break before we can start the third 90-day period which I believe began at the end of February and we've been out there since then and I don't have it in front of me, but we've probably purchased 10,000 shares [ph] in Feb (00:19:07) or something like that.

That's speculation.

We don't know.

Well we do know -

You don't know -

I just don't have that figure.

Right.

In tomorrow's K you'll have an exact calculation, but I can't say that. We've been out there, we've been aggressive we did maxed out for the first six months.

Right. I mean, when you say aggressive the price is cheap and if people want to foolish enough to do it. What I would then follow up with is – as you've found that the shares are coming in pretty easy to you, will or when would the board consider perhaps replenishing and continuing along the pace you're doing?

We'll consider it when once it expires.

Okay.

We'll talk about it certainly on our next board meeting, so it'll be close to that time.

And on a number of things as you know, what our borrowing level is, what our acquisition opportunities are, if we bought a company if we bought what we're looking at and cash flows, of course.

Yeah.

I mean everything is still on the table.

All right. When you're considering the increase in CapEx for 2018, is there a general payback or hurdle rate you're budgeting for or using?

We are generally – like to see a 30% internal rate of return, that's my rule of thumb. I can't say that every transaction with the expenditure has been over that, but I'd say I can't remember one that hasn't been in a very long time.

Again I'll give you guys as an opportunity, if there is someone in the queue I'll back out.

Hold on one second, we'll let you know. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Shapiro you may proceed.

Thank you. Let's go into Hy-Tech if we could. The Engineered Solutions products are now about 8.5% of annual revenue for the year as you said in your release. Is there a mix in Q4 even higher and then indicative of what would be likely a greater share of the mix in 2018?

Andrew I'm going to say probably, but I will tell you this. We're expecting that number to cross over into double digits in 2018.

Okay.

So I don't know if that – I think that answers your question.

Yeah. Yeah. It does. Now when we call it Engineered Solutions, it's a nice name. Does it imply higher margin?

I don't know if that if – I'm not sure that's why we came up with the name, but I would say yes the margins are generally higher because there is lot of engineering time in this and customers like to pay for custom work that is specific to them.

And through the process are you adding a bunch of new customers since it is somewhat new, we'll call it sub segments -

Yes.

Obviously, yes.

No absolutely, yes. This in fact – that whole line of product is all new accounts. I mean every time we get a customer it's somebody new. It's not – it's typically not somebody that we were selling a standard impact wrench to that wanted a custom solution, it is usually some sort of product-driven company that's got some pneumatic system that's part of their product or tool or application and we get in there with our expertise, and depending on the situation we might make a few components, we may make an entire section of a product line or in some cases, we might make an entire product for them, it just – it obviously depend.

And through this growth maybe it's too soon, I don't know, are there any particular industry sub segments that are noticeably gaining traction for you in this area?

You know, not really. I mean we're doing it in so many different areas and we're open to just about any area where they can use our talent. So, I wouldn't say there's anyone there -

Yeah it's pretty broad based, Andrew.

Okay. Now had Hy-Tech had much OEM business in the past and will these OEM products compete with Hy-Tech internal branded tools or it's in the different area?

No they won't. They will not. These Engineered Solutions products won't compete with anything else we're doing.

Oh, so the Engineered Solutions products are what you also separately refer to in the releases is as your OEM business?

Yes.

Yes.

Yeah we use those terms interchangeably in this instance. Yeah. It's – just, so we're clear, I understand why there's some confusion because in the past, and I think we probably even still have a few products that are branded with other companies brands. That's not a very big part of our business anymore, but here again, it's not as simple as the tool with somebody's else name on it, it's a little more complex than that.

Okay. And then, like Jiffy was in Aerospace, are there small fragmented competitors in these niches that might prove to be good acquisitions for Hy-Tech or are the competitors, the big players, who one day view P&F as its own niche acquisition?

I don't know the answer to that. [indiscernible]

(00:24:26).

I think, it's possible that it's – both or either – nothing really, but that's not really on our mind.

But certainly, you guys would be a niche acquisition for one of the big boys. [ph]

I got those (00:24:43) depending on what the product is.

Yeah. But [indiscernible] (00:24:47) there were other small fragmented competitors you would – you could -

Yeah, there are.

Yes, there are and we – when those are presented to us, we'll look at them. It obviously depends on the opportunity. I could say, if we're just making an air motor that's part of a big system, I'd say that's probably not going to be an acquisition for us, but if we're making something that's either part – major part of a tool or something we could push through our distribution channel that might be an opportunity. So not all of them, but there are certainly a few situations where that is the case.

On a quarter or two – actually two quarters back I think, you moved back to overtime for pretty much the entire group of operators at Hy-Tech, and which was a very good sign, it showed up in your Q2 results. Has the rate of orders continued and are you now moved into a moldable shift operation that you mentioned on the last call you were working towards?

I was going to say the rate of orders has maintained itself, if not gotten bigger so that's good news. And I think the issue with going to another shift is getting manpower for the most [ph] product (00:26:00). So we've been staying we've been talking about perhaps going to a modified second shift, but people is the issue, employment.

Yeah. So are you finding that it's – you've got to go with the overtime versus the standard -

Yes.

– rate but a higher standard rate?

Yeah.

Unfortunately, yes.

Yes. But I will also say that we are finding other ways to increase capacity. We're very close to being up and running with the new of [ph] MRP system (00:26:34) which was frankly decades overdue. And we have other what I'll call manufacturing support personnel that we brought on board, that has some level certification that are also improving throughput. So we're finding other ways to increase capacity without just raw human capital. Having said that, we still, I think, given the opportunity, if we were to be able to find a solid supervisor level person that who will work in night shift, I think that would [indiscernible] (00:27:11) over into bringing on a few people for the night. But right now we're doing okay without that, but we see that into future.

I guess it's a nice problem to have versus where we were many years ago.

Yeah. It's a very...

Not even many years ago...

Yeah.

Actually, in our very, very recent memory.

No, you also talked about how Hy-Tech, was recently developing a new marketing strategy intended to reenergize the gear and hydraulic stopper business? Can you give me color on that strategy now? And it's success and or failure?

Well, I think the strategy was being a little more tuned with the market and hooking up with some much more sophisticated and well-connected distributors, which we have absolutely done, and showcasing our capabilities, but again, that is a very small part of our business, and while it's something we're working on, I don't know how much that's really going to move the needle, in total – very high margins, but it's [indiscernible] (00:28:22) business even [ph] and all it'll ever be (00:28:25).

Okay. Before I move over to Florida Pneumatic questions, let me give you an opportunity to check your queue.

Operator?

We have none at this time. [Operator Instructions]

Okay.

I don't think there's others in the call. [indiscernible]

(00:28:44) shy. Florida Pneumatic, is the new product line for Home Depot, expected to generate similar or higher levels of revenues in the present legacy line of tools?

No, we do not think, it will be significantly higher, we like the new look and we have been pleasantly surprised in the past, when the line has been refreshed, that sales have increased beyond the legacy product, and I'm not saying that, it couldn't happen, but we're not anticipating that.

And how is the phase-in and phase-out contemplated to work?

I don't have a perfect answer, but I can say that we're going to begin shipping -

Into the summer.

Yeah. Q3, call it July and it's somewhat dependent on their internal schedule and again, I'm just guessing, but based on prior line refreshments, if that's the right word, it's taken a couple of months to get all the products out there. Sometimes they do a running change sometimes they don't, we don't really know, but I'd say a safe answer would be throughout Q3.

Right. And what was Home Depot's decision to reduce the number of SKUs that they want to offer related to – has it given share to a competitor or just downsizing of your segment overall or some other reason?

I don't think it was downsizing, I think, it was bifurcating. I believe if I'm not mistaken they've created a small entry line of tools and that's where a couple of the tools came from. Frankly, they were probably some of the smaller revenue tools for us. So it wasn't a dramatic impact and we're working with them and it wasn't really that big a deal frankly.

Okay. And for this, for the new product you referenced is below – [ph] what (00:30:50) lower margin, is the lower margin the result of higher cost inputs or lower ASP?

The mark – the cost of the inputs hasn't changed dramatically. So it was the latter.

Okay. And when – and how will the co-op marketing expenses flow through the income statement? Is it through gross margin? Is it SG&A? And will they – or will they be expensed or capitalized and amortized?

We don't know the answer to that yet. The answer is that it's somewhat buried in ASC 606 which is the new revenue recognition policy, so we're working with our consultants on how that's going to go but as soon as we have an answer, we'll give it to you.

Okay. And to what do you attribute the increase in Industrial/catalog revenue and is it a one-time bump or is it something more sustainable?

No. The market is having a little bit of resurgence [indiscernible] (00:31:52). It's not a one-time bump. We're continuing to enjoy it as of now. No idea about the future but it's – everything seems to be a good in that regard.

Okay. And has Q1 which is almost over, but you're [ph] leasing (00:32:07) January and February. Has it already seen the Automotive distributors who rebalanced in 2017 either return to or move towards -

Yes.

– more normal levels?

Yes.

Yes.

Good. AIRCAT, on the previous call, you spoke of a suite of tools targeted towards body work and they had just launched, [ph] they haven't got any (00:32:33) inventory in, but you didn't really have much feedback on them yet but you have more to talk about on the next call which is this call. Can you give us an update on that progress and what the feedback has been?

I mean, I think, the feedback has been positive, just to remind you that market is a fraction of the market for maintenance work. So we've got few tools and I think we were still even getting some of those tools in towards the end of the year. So it's still a little bit early to call that in terms of what's going on. It's been a – it has not been a material event so far.

Okay. And can you update us on Universal's performance during the fourth quarter, the business continued to be strong, the weakness that was seen in Q2 and Q3, you ascribed to be in currency, but otherwise that the business was pretty steady. Is that still the case? Or if we've gotten the benefit of both currency and the strong business?

The underlying business is that – they're meeting our expectations right now, and of course as you've noticed the pound has strengthened a bit, which is of course helping the results as well. We probably have not seen – I think I checked the other day, it was $1.4 to £1, and we haven't seen anything like that in a while. So, I'd say the answer is – we're doing fine and the currency is certainly helping that.

Okay. And had said you'd be developing AIRCAT and other tools and distribution opportunities for Europe, can you give us an update on those efforts and timing, when the inroads might prove a bit more of meaningful?

Yeah, we're pretty stalled right now in Automotive tools, on the continent. Having said that, we have some other things we're working on, which I can't get into right now, but I should have more to say about that on – possibly on the next call, and you know when that is but we're working on and on doing something there, but right now, what we have done so far, has not been particularly successful, but we've gotten a different approach that we're about to embark on which I'll talk about next time.

Awesome. And then that large European aircraft – airframe manufacture that we referred to in the during the last call, have you already been able to make some inputs and get – be able to call on then with the Jiffy and other Aerospace products?

We are calling on them, we're having meetings, discussions, visits, so that continues, nothing to report yet in terms of the results or orders, but we're in the middle of it.

And generally, what is the time horizon or cycle time for prospecting to results in subsequent closing of some business?

In Aerospace?

Yeah.

Quarters, minimum two quarters, I would say probably bit longer.

Yeah.

I'd say, start to finish six months at least [ph] having more (00:36:00) like 12 months, there has been a long lead time.

Now in the oil and gas side, I understand you guys provided a greater clarity that our oil and gas business for Hy-Tech is heavily biased to the offshore side versus the tighter oil shale environments. And the rig count hasn't really materially grown there, come back from where it declined to but since it's bounced, but moreover the real issue is after a certain period of time, presumably there should be a need for replacements that takes place. Have you started to see stabilization and any type of rebound at all in that area for Hy-Tech?

Again we have been deemphasizing that for Hy-Tech, as we've spent many more resources in Engineered Solutions and so many other areas, but I'd say is the business has been pretty solid and I don't know if I'll call a rebound, we're certainly better off than we were 12 or 18 months ago in the Gulf.

Okay. You know I think that's all I have. Hopefully someone else will their hand and join the queue.

Okay. Thank you, Andrew for your time.

We're checking. [Operator Instructions]

And gentlemen, we have no further questions that has queued up at this time.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you, everybody, for listening into the call today. I hope everyone is happy enough and we will hopefully speak soon at our next quarter – our first quarter results shortly. Thank you for your time today.

And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.