Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard B. Goodman — General Counsel, P&F Industries, Inc.
Richard A. Horowitz — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, P&F Industries, Inc.
Joseph A. Molino — Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Vice President, Treasurer, Secretary, P&F Industries, Inc.
Andrew Evan Shapiro — Founder, President & Portfolio Manager, Lawndale Capital Management LLC
Bryan Wagman — Analyst, Askeladden Capital

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby. Good day and welcome to the Second Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Richard Goodman, General Counsel. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to P&F Industries' second quarter 2016 earnings conference call. With us today from management are Richard Horowitz, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Joseph Molino, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements discussed on today's call by our management, including those related to the company's future performance and outlook, are based upon the company's historical performance and current plans, estimates and expectations, which are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the strength of the markets in which we operate, the impact of competition, product demand, supply chain, pricing, our debt and debt service requirements and those other risks and uncertainties described in the reports and statements filed by the company with the SEC, including among others, as described in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other subsequent filings.

These risks could cause the company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the company. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Richard Horowitz. Good morning, Richard.

Good morning, Rich. Thank you so much, and good morning, everybody. Thank you, all, for joining us on our call this morning. I would like to begin today's call with a brief summary of the company's second quarter 2016 results from continuing operations and earnings per share from continuing operations and how they compare to the same period a year ago.

We will also briefly discuss the goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charge recorded this quarter. I will then ask Joe Molino to briefly review key cash flow information then discuss discontinued operations and provide an update on key events affecting the company. After which, we will move to our normal Q&A session. However, before I begin, I wish to remind you all that the purpose of this call this morning is to discuss and review the company's second quarter 2016 results only. As such, I kindly request that you please confine your questions and comments to the company's results.

I also wish to point out that unless otherwise noted, the financial information discussed on today's call refers to our continuing operations, thus, excluding Nationwide Industries which was sold in February of this year and is being accounted for as a discontinued operation.

The company's consolidated revenue for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2016 were $15,637,000 and $30,136,000 compared to $16,058,000 and $30,617,000 for the same period in 2015. Florida Pneumatic's second quarter 2016 revenue of $12,738,000 reflects an improvement of $735,000 or 6.1% compared to the same period in 2015. This increase was driven by an $851,000 increase in its Automotive sales.

I am pleased to report that Florida Pneumatic has its best Automotive revenue quarter since we've owned the company. Its six-month revenue of $23,568,000 improved by $1,311,000 over last year's revenue for the same period. Its Automotive revenue for the first six months of 2016 was $7,613,000, an increase of $1,476,000 over the same six-month period in 2015. Additionally, Florida Pneumatic's Retail revenue for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016, increased $193,000 and $464,000, respectively, over the same periods in 2015. However, its Industrial catalogue revenue declined $318,000 and $542,000 when comparing the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. We believe the declines in this sector are due primarily to the ongoing oil and gas exploration and extraction crisis globally, but in particular here in the United States.

Hy-Tech's revenue this quarter was $2,899,000 compared to $4,055,000 for the same period in 2015. For the six months ended June 30 this year, Hy-Tech's revenue was $6,568, 000 compared to $8,360,000 reported for the same period a year ago. We firmly believe that the primary cause for these declines is the price of – the decline in the price of crude oil.

With low crude oil pricing, many rotary rigs have closed or have been temporarily capped. According to Baker Hughes, the average rotary rig count in North America is down 444 to 417 at June 30, 2016, from 861 one year ago today.

Limited production reduces the need for much of Hy-Tech's parts and tools. Further, one of Hy-Tech's larger customers has decided to manufacture several of the tools and parts formerly acquired from Hy-Tech, which we discussed last quarter.

Lastly, Hy-Tech has been advised that one of its customers that acquired in the – that was acquired in the ATSCO acquisition that's placing new orders has not placed any more new orders until such time as when the oil and gas sector rebounds.

The company's consolidated gross margin for the three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 with 33.9% and 34.9%, respectively, compared to 36.3% and 37% for the same period last year. Florida Pneumatic's gross margins improved 1.9 percentage points mostly due to product mix aided by the – at a slightly higher-margin Automotive sales.

During the second quarter, we adjusted the carrying value of certain items in Hy-Tech's inventory. Doing so caused their gross margin for the second quarter of this year to be 19.9%, whereas the second quarter of 2015's margin was 39.6%. Hy-Tech's gross margin also declined due to lower overhead absorption. [ph] That's (06:39) primarily due to lower manufacturing activity levels and its decision to manufacture and sell a very low-gross margin suite of products through a customer acquired in the ATSCO acquisition.

Our selling and G&A expenses for the three and six month period ended June 30, 2016 was $5,154,000 and $10,173,000 compared to $5,129,000 and $10,046,000 for the same periods of 2015. Variable expenses incurred in connection with higher Automotive and Retail revenue are the primary components to these increases. As we now have a new lease on the Tampa property, we will be reporting rental income. As such for three and six month periods ended June 30 of this year, net other income was $18,000 and $32,000, respectively.

Included in the second quarter of 2015 was a fair value adjustment to the contingent consideration to the sellers of UAT of $201,000. As a result, second quarter 2015's net other income was $237,000 and 2015's six months net other income was $272,000. Our second quarter of 2016 interest expense was $36,000 compared to $29,000 during the same period last year. Interest expense for the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 was $138,000 compared to $58,000 the same period last year. During the first quarter of 2016, we were required to write down the deferred financing cost that were attributable to the debt that was repaid in February.

Furthermore, 2015 interest was reduced due to accounting requirements to remove and include and [ph] discard (08:31) certain interest expenses. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, we recorded an impairment charge this quarter. We determined that in an interim impairment analysis of the goodwill and other intangibles belonging to Hy-Tech was necessary based on a number of factors which included: one, continued weakness in the oil and gas exploration and extraction sector; two, the recent loss of a major portion of revenue from one of our larger customers; and three, recent significant reductions of forecasted purchases from the largest customer acquired in the ATSCO acquisition.

As a result of these and other factors, we determined that Hy-Tech's [ph] revised (09:10), short and long-term projections at this time indicated an inability to generate sufficient discounted future cash flows to support the recorded amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets, and other long-lived assets necessitating this impairment charge.

As a result, in accordance with current accounting literature, we recorded an impairment charge of $8,311,000 relating to goodwill and other intangible assets during the second quarter of 2016. Should market conditions in the sector in which Hi-Tech operates worsen, we could incur additional impairment charges in future periods.

Taking all the above data into consideration, particularly the $8.3 million noncash impairment charge, we are reporting a pre-tax loss from continuing operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30 of $8,178,000 and $8,069,000 compared to $910,000 and $1,498,000 for the same periods in 2015.

Our loss from continuing operations after taxes for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2016 are $5,370,000 and $5,304,000 compared to net income of $632,000 and $1,005,000 for the same periods last year.

Our basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30 this year was a loss of $1.49 and a loss of $1.47 per share compared to earnings of $0.17 and $0.28 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2015.

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were a loss of $1.49 and a loss of $1.47 per share compared to earnings of $0.17 and $0.27 for the same period in 2015. With all these going on, I'm pleased to also remind everyone that during the second quarter of this year, we paid a special dividend of $0.50 as well as our first quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share. And in July, we paid the second quarterly $0.05 per common share dividend. This exemplifies that the company is doing soundly financially.

At this time, Joe Molino will discuss our cash flow and discontinued ops.

Thank you, Richard. Capital expenditures during the first six months of 2016 and 2015 were $766,000 and $327,000, respectively. Significant noncash items affecting our cash flow through the six month period ended June 30, 2016 were impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets of $8,311,000, depreciation and amortization of $823,000. Amortization of other intangible assets of $586,000, amortization of debt issue cost of a $108,000 in total stock-based compensation of $38,000.

There was non-cash credit attributable to deferred income taxes of $2,868,000. Other significant components which impacted our cash used in operating activities and continue operations of $3,009,000 were increases of $1,619,000 and other current assets, $1,979,000 in accounts receivable, $186,000 in prepaid expenses and other current assets, $531,000 [ph] in (12:43) inventories and increases of $372,000 in total accounts payable and accrued expenses payable.

In accordance with current accounting guidance, we are required to report Nationwide's 2015 results for the period January 1, 2016 to the date of the sale, February 11, 2016, as discontinued operations. Further, with respect to the balance sheet, the transaction is to be accounted for as if it had occurred on January 1, 2015.

As a result, included in December 31, 2015 balance sheet, our nationwide assets and liabilities aggregated in either current assets or current liabilities of discontinued operations. The net book gain of the sale nationwide is included as part of the discontinued operations as well.

With that I'd like to turn the call back over to Richard. Richard?

Thank you, Joe. We've given you a lot of information here and a lot of numbers. So, I just want to clarify that the $8.3 million non-cash impairment charge we're reporting from last – for this quarter ended up in a three- and six-month period ended loss of $8,178,000 and $8,069,000 compared to a net gain profit of $910,000 and $1,498,000 for the same period of 2015. I would like to acknowledge all of our employees and management for their commitment in doing such an outstanding job with us during this time in our company's life.

This is the end of our report today, and we'd be happy now to answer any questions anybody may have. Operator?

Thank you. The question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. [Operator Instructions] And we will first go to Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi, guys. I got several questions but I'll ask a few here and then get back out into the queue.

Sure.

But I want to drill down and I think immediately to understand the impact in the income statement and just to at least know how the company has done sequentially, in other words, the current quarter you just reported to Q1. So, the thing I noticed here is that the gross profit this quarter as reported is higher than Q1s. But you've mentioned in your press release and maybe your prepared statements that there are some charges, impairments or otherwise from Hy-Tech that you guys took inside of cost of goods sold that impacted gross profit. What I wanted to get a handle on, Joe, is if you can – if that is quantifiable. In particular, how much of the charge inside of Hy-Tech's gross profit and the company's gross profit was nonrecurring and potentially all noncash? Can you clarify?

I can't give you the exact number, but it is all cash. It is related to inventory, I'll call aging at Hy-Tech. What we typically do – and maybe I've explained this in prior calls. I'm not 100% sure – but when we look at our inventory company-wide, we take a look at usage historically, anticipated usage, and we have a – as a starting point in arithmetic algorithm that we employ to give us the first pass and a reserve and then we apply our judgment, knowledge, experience and the latest information about customers and whatnot to modify it.

So, whenever there's a slowdown in activity, it's not unusual for us to make adjustments to the reserve. By the same token, if activity picks up, and there were reserves on particular items, those reserves can reverse. Normally, we don't talk about those things because they tend to get lost in the ways that are somewhat immaterial on a quarter-to-quarter basis. But as things [ph] sort of to (17:22) slow down – things started to slow down dramatically at Hy-Tech, not only did the approach warrant an additional, sort of a step function increase in the reserve just our understanding of what was going on out there required us to do so as well.

But to answer your opening question it was a non-cash, there were non-cash items. And to the extent, the market rebounds at some point those reserves could unwind. We don't necessarily believe those products will ultimately not sell, but given where we are in the market and the fact that we don't know where some of these activity levels are going to be and when they're going to get back to historical levels, we felt it was prudent to reserve.

Okay. So, in comparison to Q1's reserve activity and hit, how much of a step function are we talking about? Is it $100,000? Is it $300,000, or higher, or lower than that?

It's in that range. It's a six-figure number. It's in that range.

Well, there's a big difference between $100,000 and $900,000. You can't – just in terms of comparison.

No. You had said is it $100,000 or $300,000 and I said it's in that range. It's not [indiscernible] (18:47). It's not close to a seven-figure number.

Okay. That's good .Okay. [ph] Fine. Sorry (18:49). Got it. All right. And then if we – if I could follow up here and then I'll back out, if I could follow-up with some Hy-Tech stuff if I can. First off, how long ago was Hy-Tech purchased?

We purchased Hy-Tech in February 2007.

Okay. So that's means [indiscernible] (19:11). Now, this large customer who you guys described had ceased placing orders. The – when they ceased to place orders, what's the advance time on this? Is their business in their current quarter of Q3 that will then fall off, or there's no business now in Q3 from that customer? And when in Q2 what's the scope of the business in Q2 in terms of time and kind of quantity from that customer that's not going to repeat now?

Yeah. And I'll just chime in, and Joe can give you a little more specific. But that customer, we discussed that customer last quarter. And...

Okay.

...I know it can get a little confusing, but that customer notified us early in the year that they were pulling out as of April 1 and making everything on their own, or around that time.

Okay. Okay. This is the [indiscernible] (20:11) customer where I have a separate question. So, this is the same customer...

Oh, I apologize. My apology. You're talking about the existing customer, that's what came with ATSCO you're talking about?

No. I have two sets of customers, I wanted to make sure this was not a third. So, this is...

No. There's not a third. There's not...

Okay. Good.

There's not a third. No. No. No.

Okay.

Just as a clarification, for anybody who to get, I know it's confusing. The first customer notified us early in the year that they were going to be making it themselves. They're actually a competitor of ours, we've been making products with them for a long time. And they had – there was a little bit of business with them in the second quarter, there's a little bit of business with them even as we speak, but nothing to get excited about at all.

Okay.

The other customer is a customer that remains a customer, but we can't – right now, he's not really giving us any orders of any magnitude because of their tying into oil and gas. But they're still...

Okay.

...a customer and they will be a customer.

All right. So, now that we got some of that clarified, let me just try to fill in the blanks here in terms of a quest . So, the customer that's somewhat of a competitor who gave you notice in April that they were going to insource, and we've already known that that business is going down, that basically is a large year-over-year decline but not a sequential decline from last quarter then too much, is that right?

The first quarter, we were pretty much still going...

Okay.

I would say that there's a sequential decline in...

Yeah.

...Q1 and Q2...

Yeah.

...for the customers, absolutely.

Yes. Yes. And having said that, last year's total year volume was significantly less than the year before and the year before that. So, they had...

Okay.

...been declining for a while already. But this last quarter...

Okay.

...was still business as usual, effectively I guess, I'd say.

Yeah. And when does this standover – so then the anniversarying of this starts pretty much now. You had some sales in Q2, or it wasn't all that material even in Q2?

It was not material in Q2. And as Richard pointed out, this [ph] counter (22:23) company, while significant, has been shrinking for three years.

Yeah.

And since so, you're going to see their anniversarying immediately for the next three quarters, four quarters.

But we still do get some business from them, Andrew.

Yeah.

But it's not enough to...

Andrew, just to put this in perspective, there was a time when we referred to – in Hy-Tech's – the NDA and Hy-Tech referred to a major customer.

Yeah.

This is, in fact, that major customer who shrinks so much, we stopped calling it a major customer even though it was still significant, and now he's going away even further, if that helps.

Yes. That does help a lot. Now, let's go to the second of the customers where business is down meaningfully, that there's some discussion. Okay. This customer, okay, is the one that had a product line that had little to no margin on it, is that right?

No. That does...

No.

That is a third customer.

Okay. So...

There is a third customer to talk about if you want to talk about it. Absolutely, yes.

Okay. And then again, after I finish on Hy-Tech, I'll back out here. So, let's just deal with the large customer that was acquired that then dramatically reduced its purchasing.

Yeah.

This is a customer you have good relationships with, their reduction is because they're heavily in oil and gas and extraction, is that right?

Correct. On a worldwide basis, yes.

Okay.

Correct. Correct.

And so they...

We had...

... [indiscernible] (24:02) but should the industry – well, I shouldn't say should. It's really when. When the industry has its cyclical rebound, is there any reason for you to believe that those purchases will go to a competitor or elsewhere or would it come back to you?

No. It will be a – they're our customer.

It will be our business for sure.

It is our business, and we have a very good relationship. We're speaking with them all the time. We do get business from them.

Yeah. Beyond a good relationship, it's a very technical product. We, in fact, are the only ones that have the detailed knowledge of how to make it. Certainly, someone else could reverse engineer it, but it would take quite a long time and there's no reason for them to ask anybody else to do it. We have a great relationship. It's just fully the function of the market.

Okay. And then let's migrate to the third customer. This is the customer acquired in the ATSCO purchase who has a bunch of product lines with you but one in particular, you were maintaining manufacture of at little to no margin but were in discussions with them that it couldn't continue. You've now mentioned in here, I think in your release, that you're phasing out the product of this low-margin product. What I wanted to get a feel for from your language is, does that mean that there will still be some negative impact on your Q3 and Q4 product margin, your Hy-Tech margin as a result of this being a phase-out rather than something more...

Yes.

... abruptly discontinued?

Yes. But, again, not material, not terribly...

Okay

material, yeah. But that is yes. And that is still a customer of ours in other products on that [ph] end (26:02), or like that.

Right.

And by the way, that customer as well as the other one you just referred to who was still a customer, they both came to us with ATSCO.

Right. Okay. And this customer where you're phasing it out and you mentioned that it'll have some impact, is the impact sufficient that you will be calling it out on Q3 and Q4's numbers?

It somewhat depends on what ships, but I don't know that it will be big enough to even talk about separately. But it will somewhat depend. I would say this, if it would all shift in Q3, it would probably be enough to talk about; if it phases out between Q3 and Q4, it probably won't be.

Okay. So, it's a question of shipping inventory already on the books?

Here was the decision. We stopped taking orders. We already had the material. From a cash flow basis, it made sense to finish out the orders that we had because we couldn't return the material. But the resulting margin is, obviously, not what you would expect. And by the way, I will add up until recently, we had some high hopes that we were going to be able to engineer our way to profitability with that. But after many quarters of trying, we pulled the plug and just decided to get out of that product line. It was just not going to work. Yes. And...

Okay. I have other corporate and Florida Pneumatic questions, but I'll back out into the queue. But please come back.

Yeah. And just as a clarification, that customer we're talking about was a customer of Hy-Tech's before as well, but they also were a customer of ATSCO so...

Okay. So, it's good, because it will be an ongoing good relationship, that they appreciate what you've done?

Yeah.

Yeah. No.

Yeah.

There's no question. It was not an easy decision. We work with them very hard to try to make that product line work given our relationship with them, but despite our best efforts on both sides, we just couldn't get there.

Okay. Great. Come back to me please.

Yeah.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go to Bryan Wagman from Askeladden Capital.

Hi, guys. So, probably kind of broad questions here. I guess if we could start, I remember on the last call, you guys spoke about three areas that you're thinking about moving into while oil and gas sort of remains in a depressed state. I was wondering if there was any update there or if you might be ready to identify what those areas are?

I'm not sure I'm following you. Other areas that we were looking to exploit?

Other – you said while oil and gas remains in a depressed state for Hy-Tech...

Yeah. Yeah.

... you were sort of looking into other end markets, yeah?

Yes. Oh, certainly. This is with respect to Hy-Tech?

Yeah.

Yeah. I mean we're not going to get into the details of what those markets are, but they are non-correlated with oil and gas and are across some other segments of the economy. And what I would say is this, once they get to be a little more significant and our plans get a little more concrete, we're happy to disclose what those markets are. We're just not quite ready to do that. But we are moving along and we are starting to see some fruits of our labor there, but it's going to be a long haul.

Okay. Sure. Now, on the press release, you had some language, I think you said late 2016 maybe until 2017. Is that what you were talking about there when that might start to become material?

Yes.

Yeah. We're starting to – a little bit in Q3, more in Q4, and then we're hoping for a much bigger ramp up in 2017.

Okay. Sure. Thanks. And then on the acquisition search, so obviously, the broad philosophy hasn't changed since we last spoke. But could you update us on what you're seeing in terms of both valuations and then just the amount of activity in the pipeline?

Well, valuations still seem reasonable. Our strategy is not to get involved in auctions. So, our strategy is to try to identify owners who are, at a point in their careers, were – it makes sense for them to take the chips off the table, so to speak. And usually, it's got to be a good fit in terms of personality and getting them comfortable with the transition of the business.

So, in those situations, the valuation work is a little different. It's just straight up multiples with – just out there generically as a private equity firm, would look at things. So, we are looking in areas that are, what I call, bolt-ons, very much related to what we currently do, either niches we don't serve or accessories that could be added or technologies that we don't have, but everything related to currently what we do. And I would say we're also not looking at anything that might be involved in a historically, cyclical areas like oil and gas. So, I don't know if that helps, but there's a lot of activity going on, but there's obviously nothing to report yet. When there is, we will report it.

Sure. All right. And then on a prior call, I believe you've said that you had several aerospace products planned to come online this summer. Did those end up getting launched? And if so, how are they doing?

They would be later in the year, and development continues. But we fully expect those things to come on board before year end.

Okay. Sure. And then with the addition of those new products, I remember you had said before that you maybe have less than sort of 50% of the total offering of some of the major players in that area, and you were trying to get more into the 70% to 80% range. Where do you think those new products might take you?

Well, this would be a bit of a guess on my part, but I certainly don't think we're at 50% yet. Whether these would get us exactly or that, I don't know. The long-term goal would be to offer the full line with the exception of maybe a few odds and ends. So, the goal is really to get to 90% or more and basically to be a full-line player in that market. That is going to take a few years.

Okay. Sure. Then lastly, on the last call, you spoke about attending a MicroCap Conference in New York in June. What did you guys walk away from with that, and do you think there could be any potential benefits [ph] with (33:04) you guys participating?

Oh, I was there, and it was informative. There was nothing – we didn't present there. We were...

Yeah.

...a guest of the – actually, the host of the event. And it was interesting. I don't think we walked away with anything other than it was interesting. I mean, I couldn't really tell you if we would consider doing it next year. If we have something to talk about, perhaps we would, if the host would want us to do that or allow us to do that. But it was just – it was our first exposure to it, so it was just an interesting couple of days. That's all.

Okay. Sure. That's all for me. Thanks, guys.

Okay.

You're welcome.

And we'll now go to [ph] Henry Dubrow (33:52), and he's a private investor.

Yes. Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning.

Did the impairment charge necessitate any waiver or amendment to any lending agreement?

No.

No, it did not.

So, it won't have any impact on your dividends, your dividend policy?

No.

No, it would not. [indiscernible] (34:17). The noncash and our bank debt is very, very low.

So, there's no...

No. No.

...net worth covenant?

Nothing.

There's no current – in the prior bank amendment, there was a tangible net worth covenant, which this would not have impacted as well. There's no longer even a tangible covenant under the current circumstances. If availability dropped significantly, then there might, there would be a tangible covenant. But there isn't one now.

Okay. One last question regarding the disclosure about the customer that you said will cease placing new orders. Is there the anticipation that any prior sales or receivables from this customer will be paid in full, or do you anticipate returns from the customer allowances needed to be granted?

Good question. No, we've got an ongoing relationship with that customer. They're still paying their bills on time, their product is coming back. Other than just the discontinuation of orders, there is no other effect on [ph] it (35:34).

So, no anticipated future P&L effect?

No.

Correct.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

All right. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go back to Andrew Shapiro from Lawndale Capital Management.

Hi. Okay. Some follow-up here in Florida Pneumatic. So, as you just mentioned, Mr. [ph] Dubrow (36:01), the write-down here is almost all of it intangibles that have occurred. In fact, I note that your tangible book value per share actually increased to almost $10 a share as a result of the write-off on the write-down of all these intangibles. And with that increase in the tangible book value, our company, at very low, almost nonexistent debt-to-equity levels because of the recent sale.

In your acquisition strategy, as you mentioned, you're not doing the auctions, you're looking for these, I won't call them all that unique, but these circumstances for owners calling it quits, et cetera, with no successor circumstances. When do you decide that it may be appropriate, in addition to the dividend policy, either increasing the dividend or instead of that being an ongoing obligation at too high of a level, coming in with a stock buyback in a modest dose?

I'm not quite sure if I understand what you're asking us, Andrew. But if you're asking us if we're going to consider buying stock back in a modest dose, we discussed that at our last meeting right at the annual meeting, and we decided to hold off. But it is definitely on our radar to do something like that. I mean, we feel that the stock is certainly, in our view, underpriced. So, if we can do that, we will do that.

If we get clearance from our legal counsel, I don't see any reason why we wouldn't consider doing something like that in the very near future. We have a meeting right after – in early September about that.

Okay. So...

That's [indiscernible] (38:14).

...when we talked before, obviously, there's a balance. The capital deployed to make an acquisition, capital deployed to buy back shares. It's somewhat then mutually exclusive. I want to confirm, [ph] because I'm (38:33) getting from your language now, given the fact that our tangible book value has gone up, the stock price is actually down from when we announced and did the Nationwide sale, that a buyback in your mind is something that is being given greater consideration than maybe...

Yes.

... six months ago or three months ago, just because the discount has gotten greater and maybe the acquisition playing field is a little more difficult. Is that sort of the correct interpretation I should get from your comments?

Not really.

Okay.

We are actively looking at acquisitions. We haven't found that to be – we've had many opportunities looking at many things. So, I don't think that's dried up in that way, but it's a balance. And with our bank debt at such a low number as opposed to six months ago, when we still owned Nationwide and all that...

Right.

... things have changed in that landscape. So, I think that – though I can't assure that we're going to do this, I can assure you that it's high on the radar screen for the board to look at both acquisitions and a modest stock buyback program, if we get legal counsel to bless us doing that.

Okay. So, it's not – then the wiggle room I'm getting from you right now is that before, it might have been more mutually exclusive, now it's no longer mutually exclusive?

That would be my take, yes.

Okay. Great. In terms of the acquisition strategy, not looking at oil and gas, and also, Joe, you mentioned though we're not really wanting to be in any cyclical businesses, so when you're looking at these businesses, you're not looking at businesses that you can buy at a low multiple that you guys can necessarily go out and prove and be turnarounds on, and get them cheap and then fix them. It's more you want to get stuff that's going to get just handed off to you and just owning an ownership transition, is that correct?

Yes, that would be correct. And, again, we want to stay in our tool sector as we've discussed. So, the answer is yes for that question.

Well, while we're not turnaround guys, I will say this, I think there's always an angle we're looking for in an acquisition to improve our effective multiple, whether it be a combination of sourcing better or having different set of geography, or a technology that might enhance something else we're doing, or a technology we have that could be brought to another product line, or something in the combination that makes it more interesting than just simply paying for the cash flows. I mean, I will say that. But I don't think it gets to the level of what was something broken and we want to go fix it and let's pay a low multiple and do that. That's just not what we do.

Okay. Now, with respect to though Automotive, I mean Automotive can and is often considered a cyclical kind of business industry as well and it's an industry been doing quite well at a time when you acquired these automotive businesses. Can you give a little color or clarification about how these automotive businesses and our move in growth in the Automotive segment is somewhat cushioned against or – I don't want to use the word immunized because all industry sectors can suffer softness. But are we at risk of an Automotive sector turndown like we've just suffered in oil and gas?

No. And I'll give you a little perspective. So, the market we currently serve that we call Automotive is repair and maintenance work on vehicles. There are 250 million cars and trucks on the road in the United States. Every year, they sell about 10 million more of those. We are servicing or our products are capable of servicing 250 million cars and trucks. So, the extra 10 million that get into the fold after cars and trucks go out of service, that isn't going to dramatically change the underlying demand for the need of those services in any particular year.

We are not involved in the production of automobiles, at least not currently. So, when we say Automotive, just to be clear, we're really talking about maintenance and repair and things like that, not really production. We're just not in that part of the market.

And, Andrew, I would also just add, I would think that Joe would agree with this, Florida Pneumatic is not – I mean, it's diversified in other areas. So, where Hy-Tech is more affected by the oil and gas in a more dramatic way, if God forbids, Automotive did get affected and go down, which it will eventually, everything does, of course, it would be, like what Joe is saying, it's repairs so it wouldn't be as dramatic. But we have other areas in the business; Industrial, Retail, Catalogs. I mean, a million other areas, so it would be a little more diminished. Well, not as important, let me say it that way.

Yeah. And those explanations are really helpful. In fact, theoretically, in periods when new auto sales decline, people are driving their existing cars longer, then maintenance and repair side actually holds up pretty darn well, so...

Yes. Agreed.

Yeah. Okay. I have some Florida Pneumatic questions, but again, I want to back out since we have other participants. I really don't want to rain in their parade.

There's nobody else in. There's nobody else...

Nobody in the queue right now. [indiscernible]

(45:03)...

All right. Let me know if someone hits the button...

Yes.

...but otherwise...

Definitely.

... let's ask you some questions in Florida Pneumatic, if I could. So, you've talked about the timing of introducing some new products and other things down the road, I think, to Mr. Wagman's question on AIRCAT and all that. But one of the things you called out on today's call was that AIRCAT and your Automotive segment has enjoyed some very nice and impressive growth from the results of new products and marketing initiatives you already, obviously, successfully deployed. Are there any products or marketing initiatives that greatly contributed to that growth that you'd like to call out and are worthy of mention?

In historically or on a go-forward basis?

Well, you recently, in this quarter, reported favorable results as a result of new products and marketing initiatives. Bryan had asked already about the timing of what you got coming down the pipe. Whatever more detail you want to give us about what's coming down the pipe, that's great. But in addition, I'm just trying to understand if there was anything in particular that contributed to the second quarter's success.

I wouldn't – I mean, nothing in particular but certainly, a lot of very well-thought-out programs, whether they be more trade shows, more products introduced into the channel, a couple – I mean, and frankly one or two products that we developed that are bigger hits than we had even imagined. What we're seeing is that certainly, it's not a worldwide brand, maybe someday it will be, but the AIRCAT brand has just really taken hold with the younger mechanics and they're paying attention to us. And we did, in fact – I will share this, we did, in fact, launch a brand new website, aircat.com, I think it was a week ago, Monday.

And we were doing all this really without, what I viewed, is an up-to-date site, and there's certainly going to be social media initiatives going on very soon in addition to even more products. So, we continue to move forward on that and get into parts of the country and even outside of the country that we haven't really fully exploited. So, we're still very optimistic about AIRCAT on a go-forward basis. We still have a relatively small market share vis-à-vis the big guys. So, we have a lot of upside still.

Okay. Excellent. And you said in prior calls, you had additional geography. Primarily, you've been – on the last call, you're asked and you had talked about you had gotten in the periphery of Europe, and I wanted to get the status on the bigger market and your goal of getting into Central Europe that was in developing markets for not just AIRCAT but other tools, and I think also developing other distribution opportunities throughout Europe.

Can you comment about the – give update and a little more detail at this time? And also with that, your thoughts on any European economic Brexit, like, slowdown issues that may or may not interfere or impact our efforts, or we're so small, were just entering the market, it doesn't really matter?

All right. So, let me answer your first question which is an update. I don't want to get into specifics about our entry into Central Europe other than to say I'm happy with how things are progressing. And when I have something to say concrete about what's been accomplished, I will. But we are absolutely moving along a timeline there with a goal of having a real presence there.

But there are multiple angles we're taking at it and some of them are moving faster than others, but we are absolutely moving forward to that goal. And I'm very, very confident we're going to be established in Europe soon, and we'll see how big we can make it. But we are not backing off from that at all. We're getting positive feedback and we like what we see in terms of what we're what we're trying to do. But nothing concrete to report just yet. But we're getting there. So, that's that.

With respect to Brexit, two comments. It goes without saying that in terms of the purchases by our UK [ph] sub of products (50:16) from really almost anywhere in the world outside of the UK, just got more expensive. The adjustment to the value of that operation had to be made with respect to inside of the financials in the other comprehensive income section of the balance sheet.

You'll notice that [ph] till' (50:40) the very bottom in the in the equity section. So, that adjustment was made at simply a currency exchange issue. The – [ph] car (50:51) product just got more expensive for them to buy and sell into the United Kingdom. So, on a go-forward basis, that's going to have an effect. Having said that, we have plans to mitigate that in various ways, and I think we'll go a long way towards mitigating that but it's not a situation we were thrilled about.

With respect to the rest of Europe and our plans there, I don't think the Brexit situation or the weakness in Europe, in general, has really much of an effect on that because we don't have anything going on there to begin with. So, everything we do there is new anyway even if the market is slightly worse or smaller than it was a couple of years ago. Does that answer your question?

Okay. Yeah. No, it did a lot. In the Industrial catalogue side of the Florida Pneumatic, there was a drop that was – you called out and there was about – seemed like $160,000 of special items. When I say $160,000, a differential, the year-over-year of about $160,000 in oil and gas and aerospace. Is that $160,000 part of – is that different or the non-special item only when you called out the oil and gas declines, or both?

Okay. So, the special item is a military item that just did not repeat or not repeat in the levels that we had in the prior year. Nothing to do with oil and gas. Oil and gas does affect Florida Pneumatic but not nearly to the level that it does Hy-Tech. But there, if you look at Florida Pneumatic as three pieces, you've got the Retail part of the business, you've got the Automotive part of the business, and you've got the Industrial part of the business. I mean, there are some other ancillary product lines but that's the bulk of everything.

Retail, not affected by oil and gas. Automotive not affected by oil and gas. Some percentage, and I'm spitballing here, maybe 25% of the Industrial section might be affected by oil and gas. But as a percentage of the grand total of Florida Pneumatic, you're getting into a smaller percentage. But we notice it, we see it. We're definitely being affected by it.

And I want to add that our two biggest competitors have had enormous drops in the reported numbers. You could check them out. Ingersoll Rand, Chicago Pneumatic, Atlas Copco, in these areas, they've had enormous shortages.

Yeah. Although, now that's interesting because Atlas Copco's multiple and their stock price seems to be just chugging. So...

Yeah. Yeah. [indiscernible] (53:51). Not in only oil and gas, there were many other things.

Yeah. Yeah.

But it is [indiscernible] (53:57) chugging in a while.

Yeah. So, I guess there's a benefit of being large and... (54:00)

Yeah. Yeah.

And they have analyst coverage. So, we've got to find a way of rising above the rest of the small world here.

Right.

You mentioned on last quarter's call that the initial launch experience with Home Depot Canada was quite favorable. We're three months into it further, did that continue and what's your current experience and visibility so far with Home Depot Canada, and the opportunities moving there into that market further provides us?

Again, I want to reiterate that it's a fraction of the U.S. market of Home Depot [ph] at a (54:45) 5% to 10% of that. Having said that, we're happy with how it's gone. Reception to the products has been excellent, and we certainly expect to be able to grow that probably – I think grow faster next year than the rest of Home Depot. But again, I'm reminding you, it's a fraction of the rest of the business.

Yeah. And [indiscernible] (55:07) you said there are additional tools you're going to be rolling out, going – they're going to get to the stores. Did they already roll out and hit the stores or when does that occur?

Yes. Yes. They did. They hit the store.

Okay. And it was that in the beginning of the Q2 or the end of the Q2 just recently?

I think it was part of Q2 and a little bit of that is rolling into Q3.

Okay. And your current experience and visibility with respect to Home Depot, your current experience you kind of reported though actually Sears was more of a gross item for you this quarter than Home Depot was. Is that just a sales mix, seasonality timing thing? And what other color can you give on this major customer?

Then I would say it's timing, I will say this that we have refreshed our Sears offering in the stores. So, there's probably a little bit of that going on. And honestly, Sears is paying a little more attention to this product after a number of – product line after a number of years of not really paying attention at all. So, I think there's been a little bit of a pick up as a result of that enthusiasm in tending to the needs of the product line. So, I think there's a little bit of that in there, too.

Okay. And you stated in the last call that Sears had indicated they were working on additional avenues to sell the Craftsman tool lines. Is that a part of this growth or that is a potential incremental tailwind for us going forward?

I think it's both. I think it is part of what's going on, and, we know [ph] we'd (57:57) only be guessing, but we think that maybe 30% of what we sell to Sears, what we call Sears, is really ending up in places that are not the typical Sears mall store. And that's that percentage we expect to grow. And for whatever it's worth, we don't think that is nearly as susceptible to a situation in the long run at the Sears. And Sears, this is Sears' plan as well I mean they've stated publicly that that they want to sell the Craftsman line outside of the typical Sears mall store [ph] in there (57:42). Then it's happening, and absolutely it's happening and we're seeing it in where we see the product. I mean it's a little – we don't have a perfect view into that but our estimate is like 30% and growing.

That's great. And then on Home Depots, is there a timing for where you'll be introducing the refresh or a new product line into the Husky label?

That's an ongoing thing. There are much more, and they keep up with things much – it's a different situation. That product line is kept on regularly and maintained regularly and updated regularly. So, there really isn't a date. There's no date when we say we're going to update the line. It kind of happens. We do running changes there regularly.

Got it. And on the CapEx, it seemed like the number you were calling out from CapEx is a bit higher than it's been from a prior year. What do you have planned for the second half of the year for CapEx spend and what were the major projects that this is all going into?

Rest of the year I think it's going to be more modest than in the first part of the year. We just – there was a fairly sizable [ph] P&C (59:04) machine that we had to put in place, and I had to, but we chose to put in place, and that was the big spike in the quarter.

And is it providing the payback and benefits that you had hoped for?

Well, it's just got put in place in the last – I don't think it's only been producing parts for less than a month. So, it's a little hard to say, but it is quite similar to another machine we were very happy with we put in place a few years ago. So, we expect – we already know that the return is going to be there because you've already done this once.

All right well, we'll ask you about it in the next quarter then.

Yeah. Okay.

That's all I have, guys. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, Andrew.

And there are no further questions. I'll turn the conference back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you, all, for spending time on the call on a Friday, enjoy the rest of your summer, and we look forward to speaking to you with Q3 results in November. Thank you, all. Have a nice day.

This concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your participation.