Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Suzanne Cowan — VP-Business Development & Corporate Affairs, Park Lawn Corp.
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Scott Fromson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Paul Bilenki — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Zachary Evershed — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Brian D. Pow — Analyst, Acumen Capital Finance Partners Ltd.
Raveel Afzaal — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jodie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation First Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Suzanne Cowan, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Jodie. Good morning, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining us today. My name is Suzanne Cowan, and I'm the Vice President of Business Development and Corporate Affairs of Park Lawn. With me on the call are Andrew Clark, our Chairman and CEO; and Joe Leeder, our CFO.

Today's call is being recorded and a replay will be available shortly after the call. Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they are not recognized measures and do not have standardized meaning under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures including for reconciliation to the nearest IFRS measures.

I will now turn the call over to Andrew Clark, who will provide an overview of our business highlights for Q1 2019.

Thank you, Suzanne, and good morning everyone. Our results for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 reflect the continued successful execution of our business plan. During Q1, the company increased its credit facility from CAD 150 million to CAD 225 million. The additional credit has provided the company with further flexibility as it continues to pursue its growth strategy. In particular, the revolving credit facility is expected to support our ability to capitalize on organic projects and acquisition opportunities as they arise while maintaining a prudent approach to leverage.

In addition, during Q1 2019, we announced the entering into of an agreement to acquire Cress Funeral Service, Inc., a transaction that was closed on April 1, 2019. Cress is an eight-location funeral business in Madison, Wisconsin, which we acquired for $20.3 million. We'd like to welcome everybody in the Cress family to the Park Lawn family.

Not including Cress over the period from January 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019, the company has added 66 cemetery properties, 52 funeral homes including 12 on sites and 14 crematoria to its portfolio. We have expanded and diversified our geographic footprint to include the states of New York, New Jersey, New Mexico, Kansas, Missouri, North Carolina, and South Carolina, and the Province of British Columbia. The company has also added the existing operation – to existing operations in Ontario, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan.

Immediately after the end of Q1, we launched a CAD 125 million bought deal offering which ultimately raised over CAD 143 million in gross proceeds. Close to Cress transaction, acquired the assets of John L. Ziegenhein & Sons undertaking a two-location funeral business in St. Louis, Missouri and announced the agreements to acquire Horan & McConaty Funeral Services and The Baue Funeral Home Company, two of the US's leading funeral and cemetery operators.

I'd like to now turn the call over to Joe Leeder to review our Q1 2019 financial results in more detail as well as our outlook.

Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our 2019 first quarter operating results in our financial statements and MD&A, which are available on our website and on SEDAR.

Our total revenue for the quarter was CAD 50.2 million, an increase of 84% compared with revenue of CAD 27.2 million in 2018. And if I exclude revenue from acquired businesses over the past year, the currency adjusted growth from comparable business units grew organically by 1.8%. This revenue growth was primarily attributable to our cemetery operations in the U.S. with most operating regions contributing to this organic growth.

The revenue growth came as a result of increased pre-need sales production, expansion of cemetery inventory, opening of new properties, and increased investment income from our trust funds. The growth in our U.S. cemetery operations was offset somewhat by a slower start to the year in our Canadian cemetery business and funeral home revenue was largely flat year-over-year.

We also saw continued improvement in our gross margin this quarter, improving by 300 basis points to 81.4% compared with 78.5% last year. The overall improvement in gross margin is largely attributable to acquired cemetery businesses as these businesses require a lower contribution to perpetual care funds, on property sales, the inclusion of additional funeral home business at higher gross margin and higher investment income from our comparable business units. Our overall operating expenses for the first quarter increased to CAD 34.6 million from CAD 17.9 million last year as a result of the inclusion of the acquired businesses.

Looking specifically at general, admin, maintenance and selling expenses from comparable business operations adjusted for foreign currency, there was a modest net increase in operating expenses of approximately CAD 280,000 this year. Most of this increase is attributable to higher cost to support the growth of our business including higher personnel costs and higher public company cost such as legal audit, listing fees, et cetera.

The remainder of the increase in operating expenses was attributable to selling and advertising costs including sales commissions which were incurred to support our revenue growth initiatives. Our maintenance costs from comparable business units were marginally down compared with prior years.

Interest expense in 2019, higher by CAD 1 million. This relates directly to the utilization of our credit facility to fund acquisitions throughout 2018, and share-based compensation expense which is a noncash expense associated with the issuance of our additional DSUs and RSUs was also higher in 2018 as individual units were issued to employees from newly acquired businesses during the year. The details of our equity incentive plans and the grants made during the year are detailed in our year-end financial statements and our management information circular.

This quarter, we also incurred CAD 1.7 million in acquisition and integration costs, associated with recently announced transactions. As you know, these costs are expensed rather than capitalized and amortized over future periods.

Our effective income tax rate for the current quarter was 26.3%. This is slightly higher than the 22% to 24% range that we had communicated in previous calls, but in line with our Canadian and U.S. statutory rates of approximately 26% and modestly higher than the 23% rate in Q1 of 2018. And with the increase in our U.S. based businesses, we believe that it is reasonable to expect our effective tax rate to be in the 25% range going forward. So, as a result of all of the above, our net earnings attributable to our shareholders was CAD 3.3 million in 2019 compared to CAD 1.7 million last year. This represents fully diluted earnings per share of CAD 0.141 compared to CAD 0.108 last year.

As you know, we also report to non-IFRS earnings measures in our financial statements and MD&A. The purpose of the non-IFRS measures is to adjust for after-tax impact of certain nonoperating or nonrecurring or noncash expenses. In the current quarter, these include integration, acquisition costs, and share-based compensation expense.

After making adjustments for these items, our adjusted net earnings to our shareholders was CAD 5.2 million compared to CAD 2.8 million in 2018, and that's an increase of 83%. On a per-share basis, which is how we'd like to look at growth, adjusted net earnings was CAD 0.219 per share this year compared to CAD 0.182 last year. And that's a 20% increase year-over-year.

In addition, our adjusted EBITDA for our shareholders in 2019 was CAD 11.7 million compared to CAD 5.8 million last year, a year-over-year increase of 102%. And again, on a per-share basis, adjusted EBITDA was CAD 0.497 per share compared to CAD 0.375 last year, and that is an increase of 32.5% year over year. This significant double-digit growth year-over-year in our per-share earnings and EBITDA, again reflects the impact of deploying approximately CAD 275 million in acquisitions through 2018. With the capital deployed, our adjusted per-share earnings and EBITDA now reflect a more realistic run-rate for our current business. And as we exited Q1, we had additional borrowing capacity available on our credit facility, which we use to fund the Cress Funeral Service's acquisition on April 1 and the Ziegenhein acquisition later in May.

Our adjusted EBITDA profit margin for 2019 increased by 200 basis points to 23.7% compared to 21.7% last year. And we have seen significant improvement in the EBITDA profit margins in recent quarters as a result of the acquisition of higher margin businesses, overall improvement in margins from comparable business units, and spreading our corporate expenses across a broader earnings base. That is a trend we expect will continue as we integrate the acquired businesses and execute our growth strategy in the coming years.

And just a few words on our balance sheet. As of March 31, 2019, we had consolidated bank and other debt of approximately CAD 94 billion. We subsequently borrowed an additional CAD 31 million to acquire Cress and Ziegenhein bringing our total debt to CAD 125 million. The net proceeds from the [ph] Baue deal (00:11:18) financing that closed in April provided us with CAD 138 million in cash. This together with the CAD 14 million cash on hand leaves us with approximately CAD 27 million of net cash on hand.

This level of cash combined with our credit facility of CAD 225 million provides the company with the necessary capital to fund recently announced acquisitions and will leave us with approximately CAD 100 million in net consolidated debt which will be well below our communicated comfort range of 2 to 2.5 times debt to EBITDA leverage ratio. Also, a pipeline of future revenue currently sits on our balance sheet in the form of deferred revenue, cash in pre-need trust funds and pre-need insurance contracts, and this backlog of revenue currently sits at approximately CAD 475 million representing a significant source of future revenue for the company.

During our Q2 earnings call last year, we indicated that we were targeting approximately CAD 25 million in organic CapEx spending over the next 18 to 24 months and CAD 40 million over the next three to five years. This capital is to be deployed on growth initiatives such as cemetery expansion, on-site and standalone funeral homes, visitation centers, and new mausoleum construction.

During the current quarter, this year, we spent approximately CAD 2.1 million on the shorter term targets. Our maintenance capital expenditures for Q1 were CAD 1.3 million which is below our intended goal to be in line with annual depreciation expense which is running at approximately CAD 6.5 million. In closing, I'd like to mention a recent change in one of our accounting policies. Effective January 1, 2019, we implemented IFRS 16 dealing with leases.

We elected to use the modified retrospective method of implementing this new standard which records the transitional adjustments through the opening retained earnings without a restatement of prior periods operating results. I would point out that the comparative peer group – our comparative peer group in the U.S. also chose to use this retrospective method of applying the new standard.

The effect of this new accounting standard is to treat what were previously operating leases or our head office space, our leased funeral home locations, and leased machinery and equipment as capital leases going forward.

The capitalized leased assets are recorded as right-of-use assets in our property and equipment assets and a corresponding lease liability amount is included on the balance sheet as debt. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the remaining useful life of the assets and an interest expense is recognized as the lease liability is extinguished. The right-of-use assets and the lease liability are disclosed in Note 8 and 16 of our financial statements.

There is no material impact to our net income as a result of implementing this accounting change. However, operating lease payments that were previously recorded as expenses are now replaced by depreciation and interest expense. And the net impact is to increase our adjusted EBITDA in the current quarter by approximately CAD 325,000.

I will now turn the call over to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Joe. We are pleased to have delivered another solid quarter. There continues to be positive progress towards our 2022 aspirational target, which was announced in August of 2018, particularly on the organic and margin expansion fronts and in most markets on the organic growth front as well.

We'd like to take this opportunity to point out that while our business specifically and industry, more generally are very predictable. Over the long term that predictability is linear in nature. However, it can vary widely over the short term. Our balance sheet remains in excellent condition as Joe outlined and we do remain well-positioned to capitalize on both organic and acquisition opportunities as they present themselves.

Joe and I will now open up the lines to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Maggie MacDougall of Cormark. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Morning.

Hi, Maggie.

I was wondering if you guys could give us a bit of an overview on the puts and takes for your organic growth in the quarter. It was pretty high in Q4 and a bit better than flat in Q1. So, I'm curious if weather may have had an impact on that and whether there're any regional or other influences that are worth noting.

Yeah, Maggie. It's a good question. I mean, the significant organic growth issue as Joe sort of point – rightly pointed out, is really the softness on the organic side was really focused on the Toronto market particularly and in particular at Westminster Cemetery on preneed – or, I beg your pardon, on at-need crypt sales. So it's still a large enough property and that in conjunction with Park Lawn Cemetery here in Toronto are still large enough properties. That softness on at-need sales in those markets can drag organic growth relative to our stated guideline of sort of mid-single digits.

So there's not anything systemic that we are worried about at all. I would point out that Q1 last year for the Toronto properties particularly was a very, very strong Q1. So, we had a difficult comparative from an organic growth perspective, specifically in Toronto. But the overall picture is quite – remains quite positive. We had good organic growth coming out of a number of markets in the U.S. that would – and almost all of our markets in the U.S. for that matter would be in line with that sort of mid-single digit range. And that was driven by continued strength at Eternal Sunset in New Jersey, the former Lafayette property.

So, I don't think there's anything that we're particularly concerned about with, as I said, softness and at-need at a couple of the larger properties here in Toronto, but other than that, fairly stable throughout.

Okay. And then just changing gears, there is some commentary around, I believe, margin outlook in your prepared remarks. And wondering if you could perhaps provide a bit more color on sort of the cadence we should expect over the next 6 to 12 months as you continue with your U.S. integration, you've got a number of higher margin acquisitions coming onto the platform that should have some an impact as well; just to make sure we're thinking about margin development correctly and how that should play over the next [indiscernible] (00:19:07).

Yeah. We expect it to be quite incremental in nature, Maggie. I don't think our sort of thinking about it has changed materially. I mean, I think we were encouraged by some of the margin growth in this quarter. There were some really positive developments come out of Michigan, for example, in terms of their margin profile. But, I think we would not have changed our thinking around margin growth that it would be 150 to 200 basis points or so a quarter, is kind of what we're targeting over the next few years. Yeah.

Okay. Okay. Great. And one final question. You recently announced a large acquisition in the U.S. Curious what that does to your M&A pipeline and what your opportunities look like going forward?

It changes the nature of the M&A pipeline. The M&A pipeline would be more in line with – it would be more sort of smaller tuck-in type opportunities in nature right now rather than any – but look, we still have a number of opportunities both in the pipeline formally and that we believe are coming down the road. So -- but clearly, we moved through a lot of that within the last week or 10 days. But, we do expect it to continue to fill up through the summer. But we are going to focus on getting these closed and on-boarded and look for more sort of smaller tuck-ins in nature going forward.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Maggie.

Your next question comes from the line of Scott Fromson of CIBC. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi there folks. Just wondering with the recent acquisitions. There seems to be a bit of a dual track strategy. You've got Kansas and Missouri being more traditional markets while Denver is more of a cremation or maybe you call it progressive market. Is the plan to take the experience from these progressive markets and apply to more traditional markets, trying to get ahead of the curve?

I think not necessarily. I mean, certainly, to the extent that the cremation rates in those more traditional markets uptick, I think we'll certainly have the tools to accommodate that. But, we're certainly not trying to proactively change those markets. But we certainly have the tools to react.

I mean, I think, fundamentally the way we look at these acquisitions and acquisitions more generally is we start from the bottom up and remain sort of agnostic to the market more generally and we're really sort of hyper-focused on the business and the local area market and to the extent that there are attributes that we can take from those businesses and apply across the portfolio, then we'll be doing that.

I mean certainly the Horan transaction in Denver and Cress in Madison, the business in New Mexico, many of our Canadian businesses, those in British Columbia and Ottawa are already high-commission markets to begin with. So, I think we have a lot of sort of knowledge within our organization as to how to respond to those transitions from more traditional to more cremation heavy.

Okay. That's great. And second kind of follow on that. Can you talk about the opportunities to build additional clusters in the western U.S., so building off the Horan acquisition and the new Denver Regional Headquarters?

Yeah. I think we're certainly looking at the opportunity in Denver and quite frankly in St. Louis. In any of our existing markets, there's opportunity to continue to build out cluster, clusters of assets and businesses so we can get some operating leverage; the business in Denver and the business in St. Louis specifically and that in Madison since we're talking in the more recent opportunities.

Those are all very good market share in each of their local markets, so to the extent that we can build out around those that will be hugely advantageous to us. There's nothing formally, as I said. We tend to look at these more on a standalone basis and don't necessarily take a view as to our ability or inability as the case may be to acquire other assets in the market when we look at these. But we certainly makes assets that may come up for sale in a market more appealing if and when they do come up.

Okay. And final question. Can you talk with any developments in legislation in the [indiscernible] (00:24:40)?

No, I don't think there've been any material developments in any of those states now.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Paul Bilenki of TD Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thank you and good morning.

Hey, Paul. How are you doing?

Good. Thanks. So I guess first question if you could just update us on how your integration efforts are progressing. I think you mentioned last call that you're going to start on Citadel pretty soon after that call. Has that already begun?

Yes, it has. That is under way. I would describe the integration efforts to use a sports reference. We're probably in the sixth or seventh inning of the legacy integration efforts pre the recently announced and closed transactions. So, I think we're right on schedule in that respect.

Okay. And then how do – what does the time line look for the integration of the new acquisitions? Is it sort of 12 to 18 months after closing or how should we think about that?

No, it'll be faster than that. I mean, our focus right now candidly is on getting them closed and across the line. As we have indicated I think through the press release and some of the communications around that – those transactions, I mean, these are fantastic businesses. And they – well, we do intend to integrate them. They will be accretive in almost all respects to our existing platform, even in advance of the integration efforts. So, I wouldn't expect any sort of material stuff to go on from an integration standpoint until backend of Q4 or early Q1. I think we want to make sure that everybody is stable and in their seats, and we try very hard not to – in businesses like this, not to reinvent the wheel but go at it very, very incrementally. So, I'm not sure if that answers your question at all, but that's certainly our plan.

No, it's perfect. And then maybe one sort of bigger picture question. The funeral rule is slated for review this year and one of the possible talking points for them is putting or requiring pricing online. I guess generally what are your thoughts about having pricing more available online and how do you think that will impact consumer decision-making or your strategy?

So first of all, we provide pricing online in Canada anyway. So we're used to that sort of paradigm. Secondarily, we believe fundamentally as a company that we provide good value for money and that we provide excellent service and that we serve our families well and we're not afraid of our pricing. And I think it represents in almost all cases a good value for money in the local market. So I'm not – we're not we're not afraid of that at all and I think it's a competitive advantage for us in some respects.

All right. Thank you. That's it for me for today. Thanks.

Thanks, Paul,

Your next question comes from the line of Johann Rodrigues of Raymond James. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. I was just wondering if you had a sense as to what the comparable business EBITDA margin was, like year-over-year.

Yeah. I don't have that number at hand. But Johann, we didn't quite look at it that way.

Okay.

I think – suffice to say, while we don't have the specific number, I think it's reasonable to say that it would be lower than where we are at this point in time, particularly because we've seen some really encouraging margin expansion out of the Michigan market. So I think it would be very, very – it's not – I think it's – it's better than it has been, but to Joe's point, we don't analyze it necessarily that way.

Okay. And then one thing, Joe, I think you said you guys had a net cash position of CAD 27 million. So is that pro forma -- what point in time was that?

That would be, Johann, when we look at where we came out of the quarter and then if we took all of the transactions that we've announced and that is off the proceeds from the financing. We would sit in that position, CAD 27 million ready and available to deploy on the Horan and Baue acquisitions as they close later in the year.

Okay. So, it includes Cress...

Yes. Cress – anything that we've closed...

Closed on. Okay. So, just not Baue and Horan.

Right. After that, we're looking at – we believe we'll be in the CAD 100 million net debt position after we close those transactions.

Gotcha. Okay. Okay. I'll turn it back. Thanks again.

Thanks, Johann.

Your next question comes from line of Stephen Harris of GMP Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning. Just want to follow up on the impact of some of these acquisitions. You've given us some guidance on CapEx. The acquisitions you've announced are actually quite significant. Are there other CapEx projects, either ongoing or that you plan those that will have a material impact on what you intend to do?

Not at this stage, Steve, not that will have a material impact. No. I mean, there are certainly opportunities. But as I made reference to in an earlier comment, these businesses are where we're focused on getting them closed, getting certain of the back of house if you will, integration exercises going forward. But there's no immediate need or immediate sort of windfall type opportunity to invest organic capital in either of these businesses, although undoubtedly there will be those that [indiscernible] (00:32:05) their head over time.

Okay. Good. And can you maybe update us a little bit on what you're thinking about balancing leverage. There's always been a thought that as your business grew and the base broadened and became more diversified that your ability to take on more debt in your capital structure would increase. And what's your thought there and where do you think you might go? I mean [ph] Service Corp. (00:32:32) is pushing for on their debt ratios. What's your thought and do you think you'd ever get that higher or are you just not as comfortable with debtors there?

That's beyond our comfort zone quite frankly. I think we're at 2 to 2.5 times, that is our target for where we want to be for the foreseeable future at least through to the end of the aspirational target, I think. We want to maintain considerable balance sheet, flexibility through that. As Joe rightly said, we have we a laser-like focus right now on per-share numbers, so we want to be extremely mindful of that. But I think we want to maintain balance sheet flexibility as well and that any sort of thought on going beyond 2 to 2.5 times will come when we're at, I think, a broader and a larger business than we are right now.

Great. Thank you and congratulations on the quarter. And my other questions have been answered so, I'll get back in line.

Thanks, Steve. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Zachary Evershed of National Bank Financial. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning and congrats on the quarter.

Thanks, Zach.

So, the first question, I was hoping for more details on the timing of the organic growth projects in terms of the time line between spending, construction, and realized benefits. Maybe, how you expect that to ramp?

It depends on the nature of the project. The – a stand-alone funeral home, for example, or a funeral home combo operation on a cemetery, the capital can be invested over 10 months to 12 months to 14 months to build those buildings depending on their size and so on. But, they're not immediately cash flow positive out of the gate. They take a bit of time to ramp.

Conversely, a mausoleum project will provide some immediate cash flow benefits, and they can ramp – the second that they're opened and signed off on by regulatory authorities or whoever needs to sign off on them for sale, they can be providing cash on cash returns the second you open them. So, it really depends on the nature of the product and the nature of the development. So, I know that's a bit of a two-pronged answer and not overly specific, but it really depends on what we're investing in.

That actually is helpful. Thank you. And then, second question, I was hoping you could dive into the topic of your business unit organization in the U.S. You guys referred to the geographic region in the last call, but it seems like that's really firming up and I was wondering if you could speak to where you expect accountabilities to fall in that framework and what kind of benefits are you expecting.

Yeah. So, we have regional VPs in the U.S. And those regional VPs obviously are organized around sort of generally speaking geographic clusters of assets. And each of those VPs has sort of broad level oversight over those amalgamations of profit and loss statements.

Beneath the regional VPs, there's the individual and local regional manager leadership, and they have specific P&L responsibility. All of that flows up through to Jay Dodd, the COO. So from a structural standpoint, we're actually relatively flat. There're only a couple of layers between the field and between Jay. And so that accountability is very clear and we expect that to – that'll allow us to make relatively quick decisions on and we do make quick decisions on our market level activities. And there're accountabilities and financial performance that are virtually identical up through the organization all the way through relating to financial metrics. So, we're all aligned and those accountabilities all flow very quickly with not a lot of layers between them.

That's excellent color. Thanks so much. I'll turn it over.

Okay.

And your next question comes from line of Brian Pow of Acumen. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Hi, Brian.

Hi, Brian.

I think most of my questions have been answered. I guess I wanted to understand a bit about the margin improvement; you sort of outlined that sort of 150 basis point plus per quarter. How much of that is sort of going to be driven from let's say the expense side and how much is going to be driven from just driving better sales and that sort of thing?

A lot of it is driven by sort of tightening up costs. So, I think we've mentioned the – a lot of the margin expansion we expect to see comes from those synergies that we expected when we announced the Signature transaction, and we've invested in a lot of resource in Houston so that we can take cost out of the field. So that's a significant driver on the cost side. As this is continuing to clean up and I think we've shown some considerable progress and this is a contributor in this quarter in the Michigan business -- and as we've said before I don't think we any longer have a revenue problem there and certainly feel pretty positive that the cost side of it and the sort of ownership over those local decisions in Michigan are driving tighter and better margins there. So, I think we don't like to think about revenue synergies necessarily. We sort of have our organic growth targets, which we know are going to help modestly and then really focus on the things that we absolutely can control. Unlike at-need situations, we can absolutely control our costs. So the focus certainly from our perspective is there.

Okay. When you look at some of your organic CapEx projects, what's your comfort level in terms of your ability to control costs and make sure you don't see some inflation in there that would push up the cost?

Of the CapEx?

Yes.

Like the organic CapEx specifically?

Yeah.

Yeah. So most of these contracts we're running are with suppliers that we've dealt with for – and contractors that we've dealt with extensively. There are -- as you can imagine, there are very few sort of specialist mausoleum contractors, and they – we have fixed price contracts with each of them, and we have – we feel very – we've got a long history of delivering mausoleum projects on time and on budget. But generally speaking, all of the contracts that we're working on are fixed price contracts with a relatively small number of contractors. So we have relationships with all of these folks and feel – and histories of managing them effectively, so – and then quite frankly delivering on time and on budget across the board.

So, we do keep an eye on it very closely. It's an eye that is kept at the regional manager and sort of at the VP level, the regional VP level, in managing those projects and it all impacts the sort of compensation calculations to deliver those on time and on budget.

Okay. Thanks. And my final question is just again around M&A. You're obviously making a name for yourself in the market with all these successful acquisitions. What would you say the nature of competition – how are they behaving to your success? How should we think of your ability to do transactions? What sort of multiple ranges [indiscernible] (00:42:06) stuff going forward?

I don't think our guided multiple ranges have changed significantly, if at all, over the past year or so. We're certainly – from a competitive standpoint, we are certainly seeing more opportunities that we mightn't have otherwise been shown prior to the Signature transaction of last year.

So, by virtue of that, we're going to bump into competitors that we mightn't have otherwise seen. So, we tend to see a similar group of faces around a process. We still pass on more opportunities than we go forward on. And so, because we are more selective that does limit the number of folks there. But, we haven't seen the nature of those players or the multiples change significantly over the last 12 months.

Okay. Thanks so much.

Just to clarify, Brian, I think that 150 basis point margin number, that's on a per annum basis, not on a – and I made that reference to Maggie too. That's on per annum, not on per quarter.

Okay.

That would be...

Yes.

...fairly ambitious for.

Yeah. Okay.

Okay.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Harris of GMP Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Just one more follow-up for me. On the Michigan improvement, I know when we met last December there was a similar ambitious agenda there that looked at everything from costs to processes to people. Now that you had some mindset on where the improvement is, can you tell us a little more about what's been most impactful to the turnaround there? And then just a little more detail on what's working.

I think the most impactful thing there has been a culture of ownership, right. I mean one of the – so that goes to people, Steve. And we've – the way we've sort of and Matt Forastiere, who runs that business done an excellent job with it, is instilling a sense of confidence in ownership and in people in their performance. And when people don't perform or are not prepared to perform, we move them along. And so, we've trimmed at the margins a considerable number of people and we haven't done that necessarily through outright terminations and that type of thing, but we've structured things to allow people to sort of self-select themselves in or out, particularly on the sales side. So, I think sort of changing from a cultural perspective. How people think about their own role and responsibility has been probably the biggest single change.

And so the improvement is broad-based. I mean, there's a lot of properties in Michigan acing the change on – a majority of the properties are turning around them?

Certainly, the Detroit ones, those have been where the principal focus has been. And we've – the revenue numbers there have also been relatively good. And that's not necessarily a result of increased volume of sales, but we're doing a better job capturing more revenue per transaction there. But it's been largely focused on the Detroit markets because that's where the lion's share of the revenue and assets are.

Perfect. Thanks.

Thanks.

And your next question comes from the line of Raveel Afzaal of Canaccord. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Thank you. Thank you for taking my questions. Just a quick question for you, guys. When you look at the U.S. market, what are some of the regions where you don't currently have a solid presence and you think could be attractive enough for a platform-type acquisition going forward?

As I've said before, Raveel, we think about it bottom-up. So, we don't necessarily look why – not necessarily, we don't look at all at regions specifically. We will start with the business, the underlying business, assess how we think it fits with our culture in the market and then we will build out a case from there. So we are largely, if not entirely, agnostic to the regions. We don't look at regions and target businesses within that. We kind of look at it the other way.

Got it. And so wouldn't – I mean in terms of the macro headwinds or tailwinds, wouldn't be a very – from region-to-region in some areas cremation rates could be going up significantly in the Bible Belt, they would still be very low. So how does that play then in your overall decision on where to expand and where not to expand?

It doesn't. I mean, we – it doesn't – at least not at the first initial pass out. I mean we look – most of the businesses that we would look at are going forward have significant market share and significant leadership positions or the ability to be bolted on to businesses that have significant market share or significant leadership positions in the market.

And so – we're not going to go into a heavy cremation market and buy a very traditional business. But again, our business is really a series of micro markets, like the average catchment areas are quite small. So you can look at a business within a market where the overall macro number might suggest that you shouldn't be operating a traditional business in that market. But the sort of four square miles around about cemetery or funeral home or whatever it happens to be, could still be quite traditional. So we look at factors like is the community rolling over in that type of thing, is it gentrifying, what have you.

But, it remains a very, very local business. So the macro trends well instructive don't necessarily guide our decisions.

Perfect. Thank you very much. And just secondly, if you can just remind us where you guys are tracking against the CAD 25 million in organic growth CapEx that you guys have under way over the next 12 months?

Yeah. We announced that -- revealed last year we had spent CAD 8 million, I believe it was another CAD 2 million here. So, we're getting close to half of it. There're a couple of larger projects that are still in the planning and approval stage at the moment. But, I think we're progressing right along where we thought we would be when we announced the CAD 25 million.

Perfect. That's all for me. Thank you.

Thanks, Raveel.

And there are no further questions in the queue at this time. I turn the call back over to Andrew Clark for final remarks.

Well, thanks, everybody, very much for your engagement, for your questions today, and for your support. We look forward to continuing to build this business over the coming months and years. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.