Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
D. Joseph MacKay — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, my name is Kelly, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation Q3 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Andrew Clark, Chairman and CEO, you may begin your conference.

Thank you. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today. With me on the call is Joe Leader our CFO. Today's call is being recorded, and a recording of this call will be available on our website later this morning.

Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward-looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although, we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they are not recognized measures and do not have standardized meanings under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures, including for reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures.

I'll begin with an overview of our business highlights for the third quarter. Joe will then follow with a more detailed review of our financial results.

Our third quarter results reflect a continued successful execution of our business plan. Our acquisition of Saber, which owns 19 cemetery properties and four funeral homes located in Kentucky, Texas and Illinois, was completed in the third quarter. The acquisition increased the number of cemeteries in the company's portfolio, added funeral home assets in the U.S. and geographically diversified the company's operations.

Saber's experienced management team has joined the company's existing U.S. management team, which will help the company further execute its growth strategy. In addition to the Saber acquisition, on September 29, 2017, the company acquired the assets of Vita Funeral Home, a funeral home located in Vita, Manitoba, which will be added to our existing Korban Funeral Home business in Winnipeg. The company paid approximately CAD 375,000 for the assets of Vita.

Also on September 29, 2017, the company purchased 15 acres of cemetery-zoned land immediately adjacent to Forest Lawn Cemetery in Houston, Texas for approximately CAD 2.4 million. The acquired land is available for future cemetery use. During the quarter, there were pockets of softness notably in the Michigan market, which experienced lumpier than expected pre-need sales. We have taken steps to address the softness in our Michigan cemetery business, most notably having made leadership changes at MMG following the closing of the Saber acquisition, which in addition to a number of other cost reduction initiatives will reduce operating costs going forward.

In addition, a review of the sales practices at MMG is being undertaken by PLC in an effort to minimize lumpiness going forward. Notwithstanding the softness in the Michigan market, revenue from the company's comparable businesses grew organically by 2.5% both year-to-date and for the third quarter comparative periods. Generally and historically speaking, Q4 and Q1 have been our strongest quarters, however, our business is not necessarily linear in its growth trajectory on a quarter-over-quarter basis.

It should be noted that the company has not yet fully deployed all of the capital raised in its recent prospectus offerings. As a result, management believes that the per share earnings amounts will be diluted until that cash has been fully utilized on future growth initiatives and until any acquisitions have been fully integrated. As at September 30, 2017, the company had approximately CAD 18.5 million of cash on hand and had an additional CAD 32.5 million of bank financing available to fund future growth opportunities, both organic and acquisitive in nature that may arise.

Lastly, I'd like to make mention of our dedicated staff and their families in Houston. They have done an exemplary job in serving families in the challenging circumstances that exist after the hurricane that hit Houston in September.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Joe to review our Q3 financial results in more detail. Joe?

Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our third quarter financial results in our press release, MD&A and financial statements, which are available on our website and on SEDAR.

Our total revenue for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017 was approximately CAD 22.4 million, an increase of 29.3% over the same three-month period last year. If I exclude revenue from businesses acquired over the past year, revenue from the company's comparable businesses organically grew 2.5% for both the three and nine-month period ended September 30, 2017 compared to the same periods last year.

The gross profit margin was relatively consistent at 77.7% for the third quarter 2017 compared to 77.5% for the same three-month period in 2016. Our gross profit margins may vary each quarter based on factors such as sales, product mix and investment income. And our current quarter gross profit margins in the cemetery business remained flat, while gross profit margin in our existing funeral businesses were slightly lower than previous years.

However, because of the overall gross margins in funeral businesses are higher than cemetery operations, and we had more funeral business in 2017 than 2016, the company's overall gross margin was slightly improved this quarter. Operating expenses for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017 total CAD 15.1 million, an increase of approximately CAD 3 million over the same three-month period in 2016, largely as the result of acquisitions undertaken in Q3 and over the past year.

The general administrative, selling and maintenance operating expenses at our comparable business units were largely in line with Q3 of 2016, increasing only by CAD 39,000 in the aggregate.

So as a result of the above, our earnings from operations for Q3 2017 totaled approximately CAD 2.3 million, an increase of 72.1% over the same three-month period in 2016. There were other income and expense items which are non-operating in nature and reported below the line, and I would like to highlight these.

Including, there was a change in the fair value of contingent payments. So the company reported a gain of approximately CAD 400,000 in the current quarter resulting from the change in the fair value of contingent payments. Under IFRS it requires that contingent payments be revalued each reporting period based on current information. Going forward, any future change will also be recorded in our statement of earnings as either a profit or a loss.

Acquisition and integration costs, the company expensed approximately CAD 2.1 million in acquisition and integration costs in the third quarter of 2017, compared to only CAD 40,000 in 2016. These acquisition and integration expenses will vary from period-to-period depending on the size, and the level of acquisition activity. And so with the size and the number of transactions in recent months, the acquisition and integration expenses incurred by the company have increased in the current period.

Our share-based compensation; the company recognized approximately CAD 180,000 in non-cash share-based compensation expense during the quarter ended September 30, 2017. This expense relates to the company's restricted share unit program.

And finally, we had a loss on foreign exchange contract. So, in connection with the acquisition of Saber, the company entered into a foreign exchange agreement on June 30, 2017, for the conversion of approximately CAD 32 million to $25 million. The contract represented one-half of the cash payment required at closing.

As we didn't have a clear visibility on the closing date for this transaction at June 30, and the exchange rate had moved quite quickly in our favor by that time, management decided to lock in a portion of this favorable currency exchange movement. However, the dollar continued to improve through to the closing date of the acquisition, and resulted in a loss of CAD 1 million by the time the contract was settled on August 4, 2017.

As a result of these non-operating expenses, the company incurred a net loss of approximately CAD 167,000 for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017 compared to net earnings of CAD 875,000 – CAD 872,000 for the same three-month period in 2016. Our fully diluted earnings per common share attributable to PLC shareholders for this current three-month period in 2017 was a loss of CAD 0.011 per share compared to earnings of CAD 0.094 per share in the same three-month period in 2016.

The weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the third quarter of 2017 increased to approximately CAD 15.4 million – 15.4 million shares compared to approximately 8 million shares for the same three-month period in 2016. The increase occurred largely as a result of the November 2016 and June 2017 prospectus offerings.

As Andrew noted previously, the company has not yet deployed all of the capital raised in its recent prospectus offerings, as a result, our per share earnings amounts have been diluted and will continue to be diluted until such time as the cash has been fully deployed on future growth initiatives and any acquisitions have been fully integrated.

As disclosed in our MD&A, we use non-IFRS measures to provide additional information that we believe is useful to investors and other third parties to assess the operating performance of the company. One of these non-IFRS measures is adjusted net earnings. So in calculating the adjusted net earnings, we eliminate the after tax impact of the one-time non-recurring or non-cash revenue and expense items that I previously mentioned.

Management believes the adjusted net earnings is a better reflection of the company's operating performance for the periods under review. So adjusted net earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2017 increased to CAD 2.2 million compared to CAD 1.2 million for the same period last year and this represents an increase of 81.3% year-over-year.

While our adjusted net earnings to our PLC shareholders increased by 81.3% year-over-year, the fully diluted adjusted net earnings per share was CAD 0.144 compared to CAD 0.153 for the same three-month period in 2016, and it represents a year-over-year decrease of 5.9% and the decrease in the per share amounts this year as a result of the dilution that we previously spoke about.

Another IFRS measure we use is adjusted EBITDA, and as noted in our MD&A and press release commencing in the third quarter of 2017, the company modified its calculation of EBITDA which impacts adjusted EBITDA to include an add back of the cost of cemetery property sold during each period. The cost of cemetery property is reported as amortization of cemetery property in the adjustments to reconcile our net earnings to EBITDA.

Adjusted EBITDA for the prior periods presented in our Q3 public disclosures has been restated to reflect this change in presentation. This change is intended to align the company's presentation of EBITDA to the presentation used by most of the company's publicly-traded competitor peer group that we believe this change results in EBITDA presenting a more accurate view of our operations and our performance.

And so adjusted EBITDA attributable to our PLC shareholders for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017 was approximately CAD 4 million or CAD 0.261 per share compared to approximately CAD 2.5 million or CAD 0.305 per share for the same period in 2016.

And again although our adjusted EBITDA increased 65.1% period-over-period, the fully diluted adjusted EBITDA per share decreased by 14%. And once again the per share amounts were negatively impacted by the dilution from the recent prospectus offerings we spoke about.

I will now turn the call back to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Joe. We're pleased to have delivered another successful quarter and look forward to reporting our Q4 and year-end results towards the end of March. Looking ahead, we remain optimistic about our pipeline of opportunities both organic and acquisitive in nature. We continue to believe that we're well-positioned to create value for our shareholders in 2017 and beyond.

I would now ask the operator to open the line to questions.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Leon Aghazarian from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

So – yeah, so just – my first question would be just on the geographic mix right now, can you give us a bit more color as to what the performance was like for example in Toronto vis-à-vis Ottawa, vis-à-vis MMG, just kind of give a bit more color please on that?

Yeah, the performance in the Ontario market Leon, generally was solid. We had year-over-year organic growth in all of those markets. Obviously, we had some further strength from the acquisitions that we made in Ontario in Q1 and Q2. So good performance in Ontario broadly speaking and given some of the challenges faced, particularly around the hurricane in Houston, we were pleased with the performance out of Saber in the first two months of reporting and ownership by Park Lawn.

There was – again as I indicated there was softness in the MMG business in Michigan, that came almost entirely in the month of September, they were strong in July and August and had a weak month of September, but we don't view that as U.S. in nature, that's more sort of business level in nature rather than geographic in nature.

Lastly, I would say that Western Canadian markets in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and BC, while Manitoba was a little soft relative to the prior period it still is ahead of its prior year – on a year-over-year basis. So it was a little bit of quarterly softness there. The BC business has been a bright spot for us. It has performed better than expected since we took over in February.

Okay. I appreciate the color there. On the Houston side, I mean I know you did mention that a couple of times, what percentage of the business is that for Saber in Houston?

As a percentage of EBITDA it would be 15% or so, 15% to 18% roughly speaking that's sort of pro forma, Leon.

Of the total business or just of your U.S.?

Of the total Saber business.

Of the total Saber business, okay. Great.

Yeah.

Okay.

Yeah.

Okay. Just one more question for me, maybe I don't know if it's maybe for Joe or not, but on the inventories, I know it's maybe slightly more technical, but the inventory level didn't really go up at all compared to previous quarters, especially given the fact that you added Saber to it. So, I'm just wondering, is there a particular reason for that or am I just kind not interpreting that correctly?

It – I didn't look at that specifically, Leon, but I would guess that we have a drawdown of the inventory for the sales in the current quarter. And then, the Saber inventory added to it and perhaps the two netted. But, I can look at that and get back to you, but I didn't look specifically at why it was flat, but I would guess that that would be it, Leon.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, final one for me would be just on the – you did mention that you saw some cash obviously on the balance sheet. What are you seeing in terms of multiples out there? Is it still – what's the competitive landscape looking like in terms of more M&A out there? Has that changed at all over the last couple of months?

The M&A landscape is, I would call it robust currently. There is, as we've indicated previously the multiples in the U.S. are slightly higher on an EBITDA basis given that there's more sort of competition for assets out there. We haven't seen any meaningful multiple expansion on either side of the border though. Certainly, not on any of the transactions that we may be considering.

Thank you very much. That's it for me.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Joe MacKay from Clarus. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for having the conference call.

Thank you, Joe.

Obviously, some softness in Michigan and you've changed – [ph] I think you've (00:19:42) changed some management there, I'm wondering if you can just dive in a little bit deeper Andrew what you want to do in Michigan and how maybe the Saber team can help you a bit more now that they've joined the management team?

Yeah. So we're obviously as I indicated in my comments we've had done some restructuring of the leadership team there which will help with the cost – cost situation. I also mentioned an initiative to do an assessment of the sales processes at MMG in Michigan and that is actually being spearheaded if you will, spearheaded by us but executed on by David Sullivan, who is the principal shareholder in Saber. Saber has a less erratic, less lumpy sort of sales trajectory than Michigan. So he's going to be leading that assessment process for us.

So that's certainly a significant advantage to us, obviously there's benefit to David to do so and his team to do so as beneficiaries of the earn-out in shares associated with that. So that's the principal area Joe is focusing on continuing cost restructuring.

We've had some discussions, although nothing is firm they are advancing on divestiture of certain assets and so there's a number of different angles that we're working down there, more just sort of focusing on two key areas, stabilizing the revenue base and then continuing to reduce the cost structure of that business, particularly focused around administrative and maintenance expenses.

Okay, that's great. And then on Saber, you got CAD 2.2 million of revenue in the quarter for a couple of months, I guess August and September are slower months. Can you kind of give us a thumbnail sketch of kind of the seasonality of the Saber business?

The Saber business would, well I made reference in my comments to Park Lawn's business being historically stronger in Q1 and Q4. Saber would tend to be stronger in Q2 and Q4. They tend to focus their selling initiatives, marketing campaigns, sales efforts and so on, around the months of October, November, April and May. And so that would be – that's what – so there's modest difference in seasonality at Saber versus the rest of the business, but we believe that to be complementary.

Okay, that's great. That's all I have [indiscernible] (00:22:46). Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Stephen Harris from GMP Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a couple of quick questions. First, maybe we could talk about the accounting changes just to clarify the cemetery amortization that you're adding back, and maybe how that works on the different products, whether it's a burial plot or a mausoleum or a cremation, if you can just sort of guide us through that it would be helpful?

Yeah. So, principally this is the entry that we used to call cost of property. It's always been booked as a cost of sale. Previously we'd broken it out on the cash flow statement on a separate line, we will continue to do that. We've just in order to provide comparable data to our U.S. peers or most of our U.S. peers, where we're reclassifying it as amortization of cemetery inventory, cemetery property.

And really the nature of it is that, the accounting treatment is not particularly different or not any different at all as it relates to cemetery lots, burial lots, mausoleum spaces or niches, just the quantum Steve ends up being a little different on mausoleums given generally speaking there, there are higher cost of construction. So that's really the principal difference the way we account for those different types of products is not different, but the cost of construction and therefore the cost of – or the amortization of that inventory is greater on mausoleum and niche generally speaking than it is on traditional burial.

And that varies region by region, in Ontario or Toronto the cost of mausoleum is higher than in other areas in the U.S., but then again the sales price is higher here for the same products. So it is regional specific on the mausoleum cost.

Okay. So if we're modeling this forward, is it fair to say that the run rate of that add-back is sort of going to go off a little bit, but not by a ton with a greater impact to Saber here?

That's a fair comment. Saber is – that line item in the Saber business is substantially smaller than it would be in Park Lawn, as Park Lawn's Toronto's assets and smaller than the Michigan assets as well.

I believe on a run rate basis, it would be Stephen around CAD 1 million somewhere in there.

Okay. Okay. While we're on accounting items, the tax rate that if you adjust for the items and the related tax, I get a number of about 11%. Is that sort of up from Q1-Q2 levels, is that a level that you think you can maintain or is it going to rise as we go forward?

We have used – internally, we've used 15% sort of percent as effective tax rate going forward. It varies as you said from quarter-to-quarter, but in terms of planning purposes, effective rate of [ph] above (00:26:14) 15%.

Good. Good. Okay. And if you could come back to the acquisition outlook, I think obviously you just digested a major one with Saber. But when we talked before there was a sort of a decent pipeline of transactions that would sort of look like they had some potential to be realized in 2018, maybe the first half. Is that still kind of the timeline of most of what you're seeing in the pipeline? And any color you could provide on that, and the sort of mix of what's there, whether it's a funeral home versus cemetery, that would be helpful?

That would continue to be an accurate timeline. It's based on the information that we have now, it's difficult in many respects to all of these businesses as you would be well aware, our private businesses. So there are a whole bunch of other challenges associated with the timing of those businesses, a lot of the closing of those, many of which are at the whim of the sellers and their own personal initiatives. But broadly speaking, the timeline that you highlighted we still think is reasonable.

As it relates to a mix of funeral home and cemetery, it would skew more towards cemetery, and skew more towards the U.S., although there are a number of Canadian opportunities that are available as well, but as the past would be illustrative in this respect, and that the opportunities in the U.S. tend to be of greater scale, and focused on cemetery assets, whereas the opportunities in Canada would be smaller scale, and largely bolt-on operations to existing business lines.

Great. That's it for me. Thanks.

Thanks, Steve.

Our next question comes from Maggie MacDougall from Cormark. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Maggie.

So just following on some of the questions that have already been asked, just curious in terms of the balance sheet, and how you look at sort of capital deployment and capital structure. What would you think would be an appropriate sort of leverage ratio for this business? I mean right now you're in a net cash position, but just trying to get a handle on your thought process around capital structure a year or two from now? And how you see things sort of playing out for you over time?

Yeah, I mean, I think what our internal target is not to go beyond two times debt-to-EBITDA, but generally speaking, we have the flexibility within our current credit facilities to go beyond that level, but we don't – we don't believe that's the right sort of capital structure for the business. But that being said, we don't have any particular issues, and we appreciate that we're under levered right now, so it wouldn't be unconceivable to see [ph] as I said (00:29:48) 1.5 times to 2 times debt-to-EBITDA range, if you were to say as you said look two years out.

Okay. And then in terms of growth initiatives, it sounds like you have a number of things on your plate right now. You've got M&A, you've got – taking a look at MMG and how you can improve things there, and then also perhaps some other initiatives to add cemetery property in Houston, and a bunch of other stuff. And I'm just curious could we expect at some point in the future that you could update your sort of three-year to five-year strategic plan and maybe give a bit more color around all of these initiatives?

Yeah, you can absolutely expect that. I think as we've said before we're not overly keen on writing new strategic plans until we've executed on the previous one...

Yeah.

...and we're getting very close to executing on that – on the previous plan which was to [indiscernible] (00:30:53) 2019. But yes you can absolutely expect that.

And then in terms of how you pick and choose, what you're going to do, is there sort of an internal view on which things – which opportunities you have in your mix that you'll pursue first?

We have tended to favor organic initiatives in the first instance. They provide in our view a less risky, a better sort of the cash-on-cash type of returns. However, there is obviously a glut of – or there's a shortfall, I'm not sure if glut is the right word there's not enough of those opportunities within our existing portfolio to consistently be building out organic projects that provide satisfactory returns.

So that is one of the features of the M&A initiatives are when we're evaluating those opportunities, we look at the opportunity for organic initiatives once acquired. What can we do to expand and build out existing property options at the businesses that we acquire. So, I would say, we would have a preference for organic, but in the absence of our organic initiatives, and the willingness to – and the desire to be aggressive in our business plan and our targets that we need to look at M&A activities as well. But as I said, organic first in terms of a capital allocation decision.

Okay. And on the M&A opportunities, I mean you've got about CAD 80 million in cash on hand. How long do you think it will take for you to spend that money?

Our hope given the organic and M&A opportunities is that, that cash will be as I think referenced in the previous question out the door by the first half of 2018.

Okay. Thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:33:18). Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

As a private investor, I'm interested to know about your dividend growth policy or – and your target payout, and do you have any plans to reduce the dilution through share buybacks?

I'll answer your first question or your last question first to beg your pardon, and we don't have any plans to initiate share buybacks at this stage. We're continuing to try and improve our liquidity, and so we think that share buybacks would be counterintuitive in that respect.

Our dividend policy is a subject of quarterly review at our board meetings. We have typically targeted a payout ratio of between 60% to 70% of EPS, and we believe that once we achieve four quarters within that – within that range, then dividend increases may be appropriate, but they are under quarterly review at our board meetings. So, I'm not sure if that satisfies your question.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And there are no further questions at this time. I'll now turn the call back to Mr. Clark for closing remarks.

Thank you very much and thank you everybody for joining us on the call today. We appreciate your support and look forward to speaking with you all again in the future. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.