Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Suzanne Cowan — VP-Business Development & Corporate Affairs, Park Lawn Corp.
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Paul Bilenki — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Scott Fromson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Zachary Evershed — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Raveel Afzaal — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Casey and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation Second Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Suzanne Cowan, you may begin your conference.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. My name is Suzanne Cowan. I'm the Vice President, Business Development and Corporate Affairs at Park Lawn. With me on the call are Andrew Clark, our Chairman and CEO; and Joe Leeder, our CFO. Today's call is being recorded and a replay will be available later today. Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward-looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During this call, we will refer to non-IFRS financial measures, although we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance. They are not recognized measures and do not have standardized meaning under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures including for reconciliation to the nearest IFRS measures.

I will now turn the call over to Andrew Clark, Chairman and CEO, who will provide a brief overview of our business highlights for Q2 2019. Following Andrew's comments, Joe Leeder, CFO, will provide a more detailed review on our financial results and outlook. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions. Thank you.

Thank you, Suzanne and good morning everyone. Our results for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 reflect the continued successful execution of our business plan. During the second, the company completed a bought deal financing, issuing approximately 5.6 million common shares at a price of CAD 25.65 per common share for total gross proceeds of CAD 143.8 million, including the exercise in full of the over-allotment option.

In the second quarter, we announced and completed the acquisition of all the outstanding stock and membership interests of the Baue Funeral Home Company, which operates a large cemetery and three funeral homes including one combo in St. Charles, Missouri.

We also announced the acquisition of Horan & McConaty Funeral Services, Inc. Horan operates 11 funeral homes and 2 cemeteries, including 2 combo operations in Denver and Aurora, Colorado. This transaction was completed early in the third quarter. We also announced the acquisition of John L. Ziegenhein & Sons Undertaking Inc., a two-location funeral business in St. Louis, Missouri, and Integrity Funeral Care, Inc., a funeral business located in Houston, Texas.

Over the period from January 1, 2017 to June 30, 2019, PLC has added 134 properties to its portfolio and diversified its geographic footprint to include 12 U.S. states and one Canadian province, while adding to existing operations in Ontario, Manitoba and Saskatchewan.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Joe Leeder to review our Q2 2019 financial results in more detail, as well as our outlook.

Thanks, Andrew and good morning everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our 2019 second quarter operating results in our financial statements and MD&A, which are available on our website and on SEDAR. And my comments will focus on the three-month results for second quarter of 2019.

Our total revenue for the quarter was CAD 58.6 million, an increase of 45.2%, compared with a revenue of CAD 40.3 million in 2018. And if I exclude revenue from acquired businesses over the past year, the currency adjusted growth from our comparable business units grew organically by 3.5%. This revenue growth was primarily attributable to our cemetery operations, both in the United States and Canada with most operating regions contributing to this organic growth. This revenue growth came as a result of an increase in pre-need sales production, expansion of our cemetery inventory, opening of new properties and increased investment income from our trust funds.

If you recall, we had grown our revenue in Q2 2018 by 5.2%, so this was a good result coming off a strong comparable quarter last year. In addition to the revenue growth this quarter, we also had a nice improvement in our pre-construction sales in the U.S. We cannot recognize this revenue until construction is complete and mausoleum projects are available for sale, but it represents a growth in our backlog.

We also saw continued improvement in our gross margin for this quarter, improving by 120 basis points to 80.6%, compared with 79.4% last year. And this overall improvement in gross margin is largely attributable to acquired cemetery businesses as these businesses require lower contribution to perpetual care trust funds, on our property sales, inclusion of additional funeral businesses at higher gross margin and higher investment income from comparable businesses. Our overall operating expenses for the first quarter increased to approximately CAD 41.4 million from CAD 27.8 million last year as a result of the inclusion of the acquired businesses.

Looking specifically at general, admin, maintenance and selling expenses from comparable business operations, and adjusted for foreign currency, there was a net increase in these operating expenses of approximately CAD 790,000 this year over the same quarter last year.

The additional expenses were incurred to support the company's current and longer-term growth initiatives, including increased personnel costs, higher public company cost such as listing fees, regulatory expenses, legal, audit, trust fund management, et cetera. This increase was offset by a decrease in advertising and selling from comparable business operations, which were largely in line with management's expectations and consistent with our prior years.

During the current quarter, we completed the purchase price accounting and fair value allocation for the Signature acquisition. And this resulted in an allocation of approximately CAD 3.5 million to a non-compete agreement with a former owner, who is no longer involved with the business. This intangible asset is being amortized now over a three-year period and our operating expenses increased this quarter by CAD 727,000 to account for this non-cash expense.

Our interest expense in 2019 was higher this quarter by CAD 823,000 as a result of the increase in outstanding bank debt, which was used to fund acquisitions. Also, share-based incentive compensation and other non-cash expense associated with the issuance of awards under our employee incentive plan was CAD 933,000, compared to CAD 249,000 last year. The increase is largely associated with the issuance of performance options approved at our Annual General Meeting earlier this year. And the details of our equity incentive plans and the grants made during the year are detailed in our year-end financial statements and our management information circular.

This quarter, we also incurred CAD 3.6 million in acquisition and integration costs associated with recently announced transactions. And as discussed in the past, these costs must be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized and amortized to future periods.

Our effective income tax rate for the current quarter was 27.7%. This is slightly higher than our Canadian and U.S. statutory rates of approximately 26%, because the increase in certain expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes such as the share-based compensation expense. And as a result, going forward, we would expect that our effective tax rate would continue to be modestly above the statutory tax rates.

So, as a result of the above, our net earnings attributable to our shareholders was CAD 1.5 million this quarter, compared to a small loss of CAD 400,000 in 2018 and it represents the fully diluted earnings per share of CAD 0.05 this year, compared to a loss of CAD 0.02 per share in 2018. As we know, we also report two non-IFRS earnings measures in our financial statements in MD&A and the purpose of the non-IFRS measure is to adjust for the after tax impact of certain non-operating, non-recurring or non-cash expenses in the current quarter. These included acquisition and integration expenses and share-based compensation expense.

After making these adjustments, our adjusted net earnings to our shareholders was CAD 5.7 million, compared to CAD 3.7 million in 2018, an increase of 52.4%. On a per share basis, which is how we like to look at growth, adjusted net earnings was CAD 0.19 per share this year compared to CAD 0.182 per share last year, a 4.4% increase year-over-year. And just for the record, our six month ended June 30 this adjusted net earnings per share was CAD 0.414 per share, compared with CAD 0.365 per share last year and that's an increase of 13.4% year-over-year.

Our adjusted EBITDA to shareholders for Q2 was CAD 13 million, compared to CAD 8.3 million last year, an increase of 56.4%. And on a per share basis, the adjusted EBITDA was CAD 0.438 per share, compared to CAD 0.409 per share last year, an increase of 7.1% year-over-year. And for the six months ended June 30, the adjusted EBITDA per share was CAD 0.932 compared to CAD 0.788 last year and that's an increase of 18.3%.

Although we achieved quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year growth in our per share earnings, the current year increase was impacted by the shares issued in April relating to our CAD 144 million common share financing that Andrew referenced. The capital raised in this financing was used to fund certain acquisitions and repay our bank debt. We ended the quarter with only CAD 34.4 million in net outstanding debt under our revolving credit facility. And this left us with significant capital available to fund future growth initiatives, which once deployed should provide opportunity for higher growth per share in per share earnings going forward.

However, we did suffer some short-term dilution in our per share growth metrics this quarter, ending deployment of this capital. Our adjusted EBITDA profit margin in the current quarter increased 150 basis points to 22.6%, compared to 21.1% last year. We have seen improvement in the EBITDA profit margins in the recent quarters as a result of the acquisition of higher margin businesses and overall improvement in our margins from comparable business units, and that is a trend we expect will continue as we integrate the acquired businesses and execute our growth strategy.

And just a few words on our balance sheet now. At June 30, 2019, we had net consolidated bank debt and other debt of approximately CAD 42 million. This is comprised of CAD 34 million of net bank debt and another CAD 8 million in notes payable in vendor take back financing related to prior acquisitions. Subsequent to the end of the quarter, we board an additional CAD 77 million to close the acquisition of Horan and Integrity and to fund internal growth initiatives, bringing our current net debt to approximately CAD 119 million.

On a pro forma basis, this would continue to leave us well below our communicated comfort range of up to 2.5 times debt-to-EBITDA leverage ratio and give us the capacity to fund growth initiatives. Also, a pipeline of future revenue currently sits on our balance sheet in the form of deferred revenue, cash in pre-need trusts and pre-need insurance contracts and this backlog of future revenue currently sits at approximately CAD 558 million, representing a significant source the future revenue for the company.

During our Q2 earnings call last year, we indicated we were targeting approximately CAD 25 million in organic growth spending over the next 18 to 24 months and CAD 40 million over the next three to four years. This capital was to be deployed on organic growth initiatives such as cemetery expansion, on-site and standalone funeral homes, visitation centers, and new mausoleum construction. And during Q2 this year, we spent approximately CAD 3.6 million on these shorter term targets. And that brings us to approximately CAD 13.7 million in total spend on these shorter term targets of CAD 25 million.

Our maintenance capital expenditures for Q2 were approximately CAD 1.4 million, which is below our intended goal to be in line with our annual depreciation expense, which runs about CAD 6.5 million annually.

I will now turn the call back over to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you very much, Joe. We remain confident here at Park Lawn and the progress that we've made in moving towards our aspirational 2022 target, which includes a continued and disciplined approach to our acquisition program, investments as Joe referenced, and organic growth initiatives and margin expansion. We are pleased with the progress we have made on all fronts and look forward to continuing to build strength in each of these areas over the short, medium, and long term.

We're now ready to open up the lines for questions. So, operator, please go ahead.

Certainly. Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question here comes from Paul Bilenki from TD Securities. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Thank you and good morning.

Hey, Paul.

Hi, Paul.

On the organic growth, could you just drill into that a little bit more, maybe provide a breakdown as far as Canada versus the U.S.? And then what were some of the bright spots and more challenging areas this quarter?

Well, Canada versus U.S. organic growth was – it was a 2-and-a-bit-percent in Canada, it was a hair under 4% in the U.S., all adjusted for currency. Generally speaking, the organic growth on the cemetery side of the business was very, very strong, and softer on the funeral side. So, it's not necessarily – the organic growth story is not necessarily, in fact, not at all a Canada-U.S. story. It's more of a segment story between cemetery and funeral home.

And from a bright spot's perspective, we had strength in the Midwest region in Michigan; we had strength in the mid-Atlantic region, and New Jersey properties; and we had strength in our Toronto cemetery properties. There was some softness on – in the Southeast region, that's the legacy Saber and Signature – oh, no, I beg your pardon, Saber and Citadel businesses. But that has more to do with, as Joe referenced, a number of sales that were made, but because we were not able to deliver merchandise or other elements of the transaction, we weren't able to recognize the revenue. So, that's more of a timing issue than it is anything else.

But there was generally some softness on the funeral side, as there can be seasonally through this time of year, it's not unheard of for there to be significant pockets of softness on the funeral side of the business through the summer.

Okay, great. And if you could just provide an update on how some of your ongoing capital projects are progressing? Is that funeral home in New Mexico open now? And if so, how are the early days there? And can you talk a little bit about sort of the other ones you have underway?

Yeah. The funeral home in New Mexico is open. It was serving families within hours of operating of opening the doors. So, it's awfully early to make a meaningful assessment, but I think we're cautiously optimistic that things are going well there. We have opened and are selling in our third floor at the Westminster Mausoleum here in Toronto. We haven't done the formal grand opening yet, which will create a bit more of a splash, but it's open and we're selling.

We're under construction with a new mausoleum at Forest Lawn in Houston, Texas. We are also building a number – and we expect to have opened a number of couple of mausoleum projects in the Southeast region, particularly in Kentucky that I expect will open in the latter half of the year. We have some cremation gardens opening at Roseland Cemetery in the Detroit market.

And so generally, I think we're in pretty good shape as far as the capital deployment plan goes. We're waiting on formal permits for the on-site funeral operations in both Houston and Toronto. So, those are waiting formal permits.

Do you have a timeline for when do you expect to receive those?

If you have an intelligence into those municipalities, I could provide you with a better timeline, but we do not, I'm afraid, at this point.

Okay. Fair enough. Thank you very much.

We've done everything we can on our part.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from Maggie MacDougall from Cormark. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Good morning.

Hi, Maggie.

Hi, Maggie.

I was wondering if you could just give us a bit of a view on how you see your competitive environment currently, realizing that you don't necessarily have direct competitors location-to-location perhaps worth commenting on, but maybe more so just from an industry perspective, what's kind of been going on? We've probably all been following StoneMor to some extent, as well as the other publicly-listed operators in the U.S. So, from an M&A standpoint, asset sales, et cetera, anything you could provide on the overall environment in the U.S. would be very interesting?

The competitive environment, as it stands right now is, it's active. It is quite competitive right now, particularly on the M&A front. We're seeing – as we have seen for quite some time a lot of activity on the M&A front, our pipeline anyway remains full and robust. But we are – given our increased size and scale, we are able to play in some more meaningful types of opportunities that we might into otherwise been able to participate in before at least credibly. And so, that has opened us up to a bit more competition from our peers, both the publicly-listed peers who are tough and challenging competitors and other – whether it's private equity sponsored or other private capital sponsored peers. So, it's competitive landscape in that respect.

From an operating perspective, it really varies market-to-market. But I would say, we don't rest on our laurels in any market regardless of whether the competition is a service corp, or whether it is one of the large – other large public players, whether it's a private player, or whether it's a religious or municipally run property. I mean, we assume that all of them will be – will put us in for a fight. So, the competitive landscape is tough always and it seems to be – I wouldn't say particularly challenging, but we're certainly more aware of the challenges right now than we might have been previously.

Okay. Great. Thanks. And then by way of an update on your U.S. integration, could you just give a bit of an overview on where that stands? Perhaps region-by-region, if that's appropriate? And how you're feeling on that whole initiative at this point?

Yeah. I think we're feeling pretty good. I mean, the various teams who are involved in the integration effort have been providing a yeoman service in terms of doing a lot of heavy lifting down there. We're in the – we've integrated most of the payroll and HR pieces throughout the business, or the legacy acquired businesses in the U.S. We're now going through that process with what was the CMS Mid-Atlantic business. It's the final one of the legacy acquired to be dealt with.

So, that is all on plan from a region-to-region basis. We have staffed the business in Houston more robustly in order to accommodate the onboarding of the Horan and Baue businesses and to make sure that we don't stumble through any of those type of onboarding and integration exercises. And then to deal with any future scale M&A we might do, which – so, I think we're feeling pretty good. The last sort of substantive piece, I think that we need to continue to do some work on is on the IT and systems piece and then we have obviously a rolling, an ongoing need to continue to integrate on the finance side. So that's kind of a fairly – I think a fairly good survey of where we are, but I think we're feeling for the most part quite confident.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from Scott Fromson from CIBC. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Well, hi. Good morning. Can you give a bit of detail on what we can expect on the OG&A cost structure, particularly with respect to Horan and Baue?

Yeah. As you will have seen, the G&A expenses were a little higher in relative terms prior to – prior periods. That that has to do with, as I mentioned in my response to the previous question, has to do with a lot of onboarding and sort of pre-filling roles in anticipation of taking costs out of the field, not only for the Horan and Baue partnerships, but those are – obviously were top of mind when we were thinking about our resource requirements, but also continuing with the integration efforts for the sort of legacy businesses, if you will, that we acquired.

So, what we view this to be generally is a timing issue in terms of that expense increase and relative to revenue. So, I think we're going to expect to see margins kind of tuck back in the direction that they were going in the prior quarter in the subsequent quarters. So, not specifically tying those to the Horan and Baue transactions, although that was obviously a significant consideration when we were continuing to ramp up infrastructure, in particularly Houston.

So, are you still on the same timeline for hitting the 25% sort of industry leader margins?

We've got a few years to do that, so I don't see any reason why we wouldn't be in a position to do that now.

Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from Johann Rodrigues from Raymond James. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Hey, everyone. Just two questions from me. One, do you have a sense as to what comparable business EBITDA growth would have been? And the second one, could you give a little bit of color on that backlog, the CAD 558 million, just kind of where the bulk of that kind of comes from and maybe kind of a timeline, if you will?

Yeah. We don't specifically break out the comparable business EBITDA growth. I think we've started to get this question more regularly. And certainly, we consider it internally. But because we don't break it out in the public disclosures, I'm not at liberty to talk about it at this stage. But what I will do, Johann, is we'll take it on board and we'll make – we'll include it in subsequent disclosures. Joe, do you have any...

Yeah. By region, Johann, we had some significant growth in sort of the Midwestern region and in our Northeastern regions and just offset by some smaller growth in other regions. But on the comparable businesses, we did have strong growth in our operating EBITDA as well. But as Andrew said, we'll take a look at that internally and look at further disclosure going forward.

Okay. Great.

I'm sorry. Remind me of your second question.

Just a little bit of color on the CAD 560 million backlog. Just kind of where the bulk of that maybe comes from and...?

Well, you would see a bunch of it on the balance sheet. Anything that is not on the balance sheet would be in insurance contract – pre-need insurance contracts that we would have sold to families or for future funeral services. So, we would recognize the commission revenue as a result of selling those contracts and we would receive the full – obviously, the benefit of the policy at the time at need, if you will.

So, Joe has additional color on that.

Yeah. Our insurance backlog, Johann, would be about CAD 200 million. That insurance product, it supports the funeral home pre-need business. The balance would be in our pre-need trusts and then deferred revenue relating to the accounts receivable, so that would account for the balance of that, which is about CAD 360,000. A big chunk of that, of course, is in the cemetery where we've got a lot of merchandise – pre-need merchandise trusted.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Stephen Harris with GMP Securities. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a quick one, because I think most of this has been covered. But one area that's always been complicated for you guys to – for us to forecast has been the depreciation expense and amortization, which kind of rises steadily as you do more acquisitions. Just wondering if you could give us a number on the combined depreciation and amortization? The current run rate including closing all your pending acquisitions, would you have a number like that that you can share with us?

Stephen, I mentioned that our CapEx is targeted to depreciation, which is running at CAD 6.5 million. I don't have the exact number off hand, but the acquisitions that we've closed since our funeral home acquisitions and the depreciation would be smaller there. So, a CAD 7 million number might be a good run rate on depreciation. That, of course, would probably not include the very large non-compete agreements and those are going to be specific to the each of the deals we do, as to how we allocate the purchase price and what the conditions are around any non-compete agreements.

Okay. And while you're on that, can you give us a little color on the Signature agreement? And this new line on the non-competes? And basically, what's the backstory there and why is that getting addressed now or roughly a year after that deal closed?

Yeah. It's addressed because we make an estimate of things after the acquisition. And then, we have a period of time up to a year to finalize all the balance sheets and get all of the valuations done, the independent parties involved in them. So, that takes a considerable amount of time and effort. On the Signature one, in particular, we did have some intangible assets and some non-compete agreements in other transactions, but they were much, much smaller.

This particular transaction we had a financial player that was involved in the business, who we bought out and the management owners stayed with us. And so, the financial owner we had a non-compete that covered territory, so that they wouldn't finance and get back into the business and that's why such a large portion of the purchase price was allocated to that non-compete.

It is a non-cash expense. It's kind of evaluation and allocation of purchase price issue. But when you protect yourself like that against somebody coming back in to compete against you, then we have to allocate a value to that asset and it needs to be amortized over the non-compete period. So, that that's why the large expense going forward for Signature acquisition.

Perfect. Thank you.

Okay.

Your next question comes from Zachary Evershed with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Zach.

Good morning.

So, some of your competitors both in the U.S. and internationally have made reference to not only an increasing cremation rate, but also a decline in average revenue per service. Is that something that you're seeing in your markets as well?

No, not necessarily. I mean, again, our business is so – and our industry is so fragmented market-to-market. You could go dive into any specific market and find evidence of that to prove my general comment wrong. But you could – but generally, no, that's not something we're seeing on a longer term scale as a decline of average revenue per call on the funeral side. We're certainly not seeing it on the cemetery side where some of the growth in some of the businesses has been as a result of us increasing revenue per transaction or on the cemetery side per internment or per call.

So, I wouldn't say – it's something we watch very, very closely. There's obviously considerable downward pressure on revenues on the funeral side, not only because of cremation rates, but because of changing sort of consumer behavior. But I don't think we suffer from it in a meaningful way more or less than any of our direct substantial competitors.

That's helpful. Thanks. And so, we had four new acquisitions lined in the quarter with another big one in Q3. In terms of revenue contribution from each, can you give us a little guidance and should we think about seasonality?

You should absolutely think about seasonality. I would say, we haven't provided guidance on any of these from a revenue perspective. So, I'd be loath to do so on this call. But, look, I think just given the scale of them, they're going to be meaningful acquisitions for us. The combined purchase price for Baue, Horan, Ziegenhein, Integrity, was comfortably – and Cress, as well, although that was a contributor in the quarter, comfortably in excess of CAD 140 million. So, that's fairly substantial contribution that we'd expect to derive from those, and we'll be able to provide a bit more context on each of those specifically going forward, particularly because the Horan and the Baue acquisitions and Ziegenhein will be included in a new region. So, that will be able to provide a bit more regional context going forward. But Baue and Ziegenhein were really only relatively modest contributors in the quarter given the timing of the closing.

Okay. Thanks so much. I'll turn it over.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Raveel Afzaal from Canaccord. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my question. Just following up on your comment regarding changing consumer behaviors on the funeral side, I'm thinking maybe this is celebration of life events in golf clubs, for example. So, how do you adapt to these changing consumer behaviors? What can you do with respect to your funeral homes to adapt?

Well, I think what we strive to do is to provide – we believe very strongly in the value of the services that we provide. We respect our families, we respect our profession and that comes out in the way that we service those families. And we believe that with engaged frontline folks in each of the markets that are highly invested in each of their local businesses, who ascribe to the respect elements that we strive for.

That will result in, we believe more engaged and more professional and valuable, therefore, service. The other thing I can say is that we are continually looking – and our capital investment program would point to that, continually looking to invest and refresh those facilities to make them contemporary to make them appropriate for the markets that they're in and appropriate to service the families that we want to continue to serve.

So, one very sort of intangible, which is delivered by our sort of values statement around respect for families and respecting the work that we do ourselves, and then one sort of very tangible and by investing in our capital and ensuring those facilities. So, I hope that answers your question. I think that's the best we can sort of quantify it.

No. That sounds great. I mean, I'm wondering are there also opportunities to partner with some of these other places that hold such events by providing them with the type of services that you guys do, and have an ancillary revenue stream in partnership with some of these golf clubs, for example, and other places to further grow your total addressable market or if that's not how it works?

We haven't done a significant amount of that. Where we have done the most of that up to this point in time has been in the Toronto market with our basic funerals business, because as you may recall that business is sort of a low-cost funeral business without a funeral home per se. And so, by virtue of that type of business model, they end up doing more services at non-traditional locations, so that would be the closest sort of version and there's versions of that that exists in other markets, but that would be the most substantive one that we have currently.

No, that's very helpful. And then just on MMG, looks like the margins have started to improve again in this business, and can you just give us some visibility on what's going with that?

Good revenue growth, good cost control. It's really not much more complicated than that. We're delighted with how things are going there.

Perfect. And just maybe more difficult ones. I mean, you had a goal for CAD 35 million in EBITDA from acquisitions by 2022. It looks like you're more than halfway through that goal already. So, when you're looking at this goal now, do you think there's significant upside to that? I know you have – you'll probably stick to your guidance for now, but when you just look at the blue sky for this up until 2022, any color that you can provide around that?

The color that I would provide around that is that, we are still hoping to maintain that to achieve that target that even if I thought we were going to overachieve, I probably wouldn't tell you and that's of no disrespect to you, Raveel.

Yeah. I get it. Perfect. Thank you so much for taking my questions.

Thanks. Okay.

And there are no further questions in queue at this time. I would turn the call back over to Andrew Clark for any closing remarks.

Well, again, as always, we appreciate your interest and support of Park Lawn. And we continue to believe that the best is yet to come. And we thank you very much for your support and your interest today.

And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.