Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Clark — Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
Paul Gerald Smith — Chairman, Park Lawn Corp.
J. Bradley Green — Interim CEO, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
George Doumet — Analyst, Scotiabank
Paul Bilenki — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Scott Fromson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Stifel GMP
Zachary Evershed — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Raveel Afzaal — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
John Paul Novak — Analyst, Connor, Clark & Lunn Investment Management Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Park Lawn Corporation Fourth Quarter 2019 Earnings Results. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to Andrew Clark. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Cheryl. Good morning, everybody, and thank you for joining us today. Today's call is being recorded and a replay will be available after the call. Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call today, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they're not recognized measures and do not have standardized meanings under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures, including for reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures.

It has been a tremendous privilege to lead PLC and build strongly – strong and highly capable management team over the last seven years. I must say that I remain highly confident in PLC's future. I look forward to continuing – in its continued success.

I will hand the call over now to Paul Smith, Park Lawn's Board Chair to open the discussion today. Paul?

Thank you, Andrew. In addition to Andrew, with me on the call is our incoming Interim CEO, Brad Green; and our CFO, Joe Leeder. 2019 was another transformative year for PLC with strong revenue growth, robust acquisition growth, as well as a significant focus on the successful integration of our expanding US platform, which is a testament to our strong and highly capable management team. We believe the success of 2019 has strongly positioned us for future success even as the world has started to change in dramatic fashion as a result of COVID-19. The unexpected developments of the last weeks have affected the way we think about our business and our previously announced CEO search. While we continue to move forward as quickly as possible to find a new permanent CEO, COVID-19 has introduced an element of uncertainty, which may affect the pace and timing of that search.

From a business perspective, and Brad will discuss this in greater detail in a few minutes, we've made adjustments to ensure the safety of our employees and communities we serve. We're also taking steps to ensure that PLC is optimally positioned for long-term success and growth in this challenging time. In the near term, given the current circumstances, this means ensuring stable leadership with a sharp focus on operations and the continuing integration of our existing business operations.

As such, as we announced yesterday, the board of directors has appointed J. Bradley Green to serve in the Interim role of CEO to increase stability during the company's leadership transition. Mr. Green has served as the President of PLC since May of 2018, and previously served as the CEO of the Signature Group prior to the company's acquisition of the business.

Outgoing CEO, Andrew Clark, will continue to work with PLC as the board pursues a permanent CEO candidate.

On behalf of the board, I want to thank Mr. Clark for his contributions to the success of PLC over the past seven years and look forward to working with him as we transition to new leadership. Brad?

Thank you, Paul. I'm grateful for the confidence and support of the board, and I'm excited to be given the opportunity to serve as the Interim CEO. I will continue to work with our highly capable management team to navigate these challenging times and continue to deliver value to both the families we serve as well as our shareholders.

I'll begin with the discussion of our 2019 business highlights. Joe will follow with a more detailed review of our financial results and outlook. I will then discuss our response to COVID-19. After our prepared remarks, we will of course, take your questions.

During 2019, the company completed six acquisitions in the United States, the significant ones being the acquisitions of The Journey Group in November 2019, Horan & McConaty Funeral Services in July 2019, Baue Funeral Homes in June 2019, and Cress Funeral and Cremation Services in April 2019.

With these acquisitions, PLC expanded its operations in two US states and added operations in two new US states, resulting in the company operating in five Canadian provinces and 14 US states as of the end of 2019.

In 2019, the company continued to invest in its US-based business – based infrastructure. While this resulted in a drag on earnings, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margins in the fourth quarter, we remain confident that these investments will assist in bringing efficiencies for reduced costs at the regional level in 2020 and beyond, and make the business more scalable in the long term.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Joe to review our 2019 financial results in more detail. Joe?

Thanks, Brad. And good morning to everybody. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our 2019 operating results and our financial statements and MD&A, which are available on our website and on SEDAR. And unless otherwise noted, my comments are related to the fourth quarter results of 2019.

Total revenue for the three-month period ended December 31, 2019, was CAD 68.9 million compared with CAD 50.6 million in the same three-months period in 2018. This represents an increase of CAD 18.3 million or 36.2% over the same period in 2018. And after adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange, our revenue growth from comparable business units in Q4 2019 was 1.3% over 2018. And unadjusted for the FX is 2.3% in that quarter.

For the full year, total revenue grew by CAD 82 million reaching CAD 244.3 million by year-end, 51.3% growth. Revenue from comparable business units, again, currency-adjusted, grew organically by 2.9%, unadjusted for FX was 4.3%. The revenue growth in the quarter was primarily attributable to our cemetery operations in the US and resulted from an increase in pre-need sales production, the completion of construction projects on previously sold cemetery property and increase in investment income from our trust funds.

In looking at this organic growth in the quarter, you may recall that, in Q4 2018, our revenue growth from comparable business units was 10.8%. So, this was a rather large comparable growth number to measure up against in the current quarter. Revenue from comparable funeral homes was flat quarter-over-quarter. We saw continued improvement in our gross margin for the quarter as the gross profit margins improved 100 basis points to 80.3% compared with 79.2% last year. Our overall operating expenses in Q4 of 2019 increased to approximately CAD 50.7 million from CAD 33.6 million in 2018, and this is an overall increase of CAD 17.1 million, and again, primarily related to the inclusion of acquired businesses.

Looking specifically at our general, admin, maintenance and selling expenses from our comparable business operations and adjusted for FX, there was a net increase in operating expenses of CAD 2.7 million in the current quarter over the last year.

Now, approximately CAD 3.2 million of this net increase was attributable to higher corporate costs to support our growth and expansion of our business. And as Brad has previously mentioned, the company invested throughout the year to develop an infrastructure platform to support our goal of achieving CAD 100 million in adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022. This resulted in a quarter-over-quarter increase in general and admin expenses, which results in a short-term drag on our earnings, but makes the business more scalable over the long term. With our enhanced corporate infrastructure, we are able to absorb additional acquisitions as we go forward, such as the Family Legacy and Harpeth Hills businesses we recently acquired in Tennessee.

With respect to other expenses, our advertising and selling expenses were down by approximately CAD 700,000 quarter-over-quarter, and this was offset by an increase in maintenance expenses of approximately CAD 200,000. Other expenses, our interest expense in the quarter was higher as we used our credit facility to acquire new businesses during the year. And we also had an increase in amortization expense for intangible assets and higher non-cash compensation expense related to the issuance of awards under our employee incentive plan during the year.

2019 was another significant year for M&A activity, and we spent approximately CAD 180 million to acquire six businesses during the year, including Journey Group, Horan, Baue and Cress. Associated with this significant level of activity, our acquisition integration costs in Q4 were CAD 3.3 million compared to CAD 2.6 million in the same period last year. And for the year, the costs were CAD 12.9 million compared to CAD 10.4 million in 2018.

Other net expenses during the quarter related largely to additional board and professional fees incurred in connection with the establishment of a committee to assess our governance and succession planning matters. And there were also other small gains offsetting this expense related to the settlement of the Saber earn-out liability earlier in the year and the disposition of a small number of assets that resulted in a small gain.

Our effective income tax rate for 2019 was CAD 27.7 million, which is in line with this percentage range that we previously communicated and largely in line with both the Canadian and US statutory tax rates of approximately 26%. So, as a result of the above, our net earnings attributable to PLC shareholders is CAD 544,000 or CAD 0.02 a share in Q4 of 2019 compared with CAD 2.2 million or CAD 0.095 per share in 2018. And for the 12 months in 2019, net earnings was CAD 6.9 million or CAD 0.246 per share compared to CAD 6.7 million or CAD 0.326 per share in 2018.

So we also report two non-IFRS earnings measures in our financial statements and MD&A. The purpose of the non-IFRS measures is to adjust for certain after-tax impact of operating expenses and non-recurring expenses and non-cash-related expenses. And in the current quarter, these include acquisition integration expenses, share-based compensation expenses.

After making these adjustments, our adjusted net earnings for the fourth quarter attributable to our shareholders was CAD 4.8 million or CAD 0.16 per share compared to CAD 5 million and CAD 0.214 per share last year. And for the year, net adjusted earnings was CAD 22.4 million, CAD 0.795 per share. This was compared to CAD 16.1 million or CAD 0.781 per share in 2018.

Our adjusted EBITDA attributable to PLC shareholders for the year was CAD 53.3 million, CAD 1.89 per share compared with CAD 34.7 million or CAD 1.68 per share for the same period in 2018. And for the three-month period ended December 2019 was CAD 13.4 million or CAD 0.45 per share compared to CAD 11.3 million or CAD 0.48 per share last year.

As we have previously mentioned, our adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter was lower than management's expectation because of lower earnings from certain companies recently acquired and because of higher corporate expenses as we have previously mentioned. We fully expect that our earnings will improve in the – of these businesses as we are – continue to integrate the businesses to perform to our operating metrics going forward.

And just a few words about our balance sheet. We ended the year with approximately CAD 174 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility compared to CAD 90 million last year. Our cash on hand was CAD 21.3 million this year, resulting in a net debt of CAD 152.7 million. In addition, we had CAD 9.8 million in notes payable to former owners of acquired businesses. These are largely held as security against noncompeting agreements and so on.

We have a pipeline of future revenue that currently sits on our balance sheet in the form of deferred revenue. Cash in pre-need trust and pre-need insurance contracts. And this backlog of future revenue currently sits at CAD 695 million, representing a significant source of future revenue for the company.

And finally, in 2019, we spent approximately CAD 12 million on growth-oriented projects, building a new and renovated funeral homes, as well as cemetery inventory, including the Eternal Sunset Cemetery in New Jersey and a number of other mausoleum projects throughout the US.

Our maintenance capital expenditures during the year were CAD 7 million, which is line with our annual depreciation expense.

I will now turn the call back to Brad for some closing remarks.

Thanks, Joe.

In North America, we are all obviously adjusting and adapting to the daily changes as result of the COVID-19 virus. While the health and safety of our employees remains our top priority, it should not be lost on anyone if the company provides an essential public function and has a unique and critical responsibility to the communities and families it serves.

We already have in place robust operating policies and procedures to handle these exact type of circumstances and have taken steps to minimize the risk and impact to our employees, such as reducing the number of staff present for service and restricting the size and number of attendees at our services. To-date, the impact to PLC's day-to-day business operations has not been material. In most jurisdictions, funeral homes and cemeteries are classified as essential services, and we plan and have remained open to serve our families at their time of need.

As the COVID-19 crisis evolves, the company will continue to monitor its impact on our businesses and will implement contingency plans if and when necessary. Given the uncertain impacts of COVID-19, capital expenditure programs are on hold, unless they are deemed necessary. We will also evaluate our acquisition pipeline, and we may defer certainly of these opportunities as our immediate focus is on preserving financial flexibility. In the near term, we're going to continue to focus on operating and integrating our existing business operations.

I'll now turn the call over to Paul for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Brad.

I want to reiterate what I suggested at the start of this call, the success of 2019 positions us well for the emerging challenges of 2020. In the time of adversity, the entire PLC team remains focused on what we can control. The continued consistent execution of PLC's growth strategy via a combination of organic growth, margin expansion and continued acquisition activity.

I will now turn it over to the operator to have us take questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from George Doumet from Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning. You called out that your integration isn't going along as well as expected. Can you maybe give us a sense of what acquisitions that you're referring to in particular, and maybe what we're doing to address that?

Brad, Joe?

Joe, do you want to take that one?

Yeah, maybe. So folks, this is all being done by conference call. We're not in the same room so please forgive us, the logistical challenges. Brad, maybe you want to start on that one? Maybe Joe is on hold.

Yeah. So I'll take that one then. So the integration, the difficulties that we saw on the fourth quarter really dealt with our acquisitions were more funeral home based than cemetery based and with those particular acquisitions that occurred in the middle of the year. And it just simply takes longer for us to integrate the funeral homes into our current structure and start operating them the way that we expect.

Cemeteries are quicker to do that. And we definitely saw some difficulties in doing that in the fourth quarter. We do not expect that to continue at all, especially given the fact that we can with the virus that there are not a whole lot of benefits to that. But one of the things that we've been able to do is really dial in and focus on our existing operations during this period of time since we're all basically forced to.

Operator?

Thank you. Our next question comes from Paul Bilenki from TD Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks for taking my question. Just following up on George's question there. So if I look at margins, EBITDA margins for the whole year, they're essentially flat year-over-year about 22% despite a small tailwind from IFRS 16, and I recognize the issues that you cited there. And I'm just sort of thinking, you previously guided to sort of 150 to 250 basis points in margin improvement a year. So I guess, assuming the COVID-19 was not a factor, what should we sort of be looking at for the margin trajectory and the sort of level of improvement that you're anticipating in 2020, all things being equal here?

Joe, are you back on the line? Okay. Brad?

So, I guess, Joe is not – I guess Joe has dropped out the line. Obviously, these would be questions for Joe, but I will do my best for you guys. We're trending to the same EBITDA margin at 26%. We can expect as our funeral homes continue – as we continue to integrate our funeral homes, and they continue to improve, obviously, the funeral home margins are better than the cemetery margins. So you should see a natural uptick in that.

As far as the specifics are concerned and what happened in the past and the guidance in the future, I mean, that would be – Joe would be better to speak to them. Clearly, something has happened to him on this – on the conference call. Hopefully, that answers your question. It's not – you can come at me again with it, and I'll try another direction.

Okay. So would the Q4 then – could we assume that's a trough margin level and that things should hopefully, normalize somewhat in Q1 here?

Yes.

Okay. Thank you.

Sorry. I just didn't realize I have dropped off, and I'm back on now. I apologize for that.

Would you like to try that question, again, now that Joe is back on the phone? I think he would probably appreciate his answer better than mine?

Sure.

Yeah, I heard the last part of it. I heard the last part of it there, Paul. And yes, we would definitely expect the margins to improve to beyond historical level as we move forward. And we've ramped up our corporate overheads, which was a little bit drag on those margins. But as we have added the new businesses and as we begin to get better integration of that 2019 acquisitions, I think we would – we expect – fully expect that the margins would start to improve towards the 2022 26% range that we previously communicated.

Okay. And sort of how quickly would you anticipate that ramp up to be? So if we're at 19.5% in Q4, do you think we could get back to the 23% that you did in the first half of the year, assuming COVID does not impact?

Yeah. That is our expectation, Paul. The 2014 margin, I think, was an outlier, and we are sort of committed to our stated objectives, and we believe that we will be able to return to those margins going forward.

Okay. Thank you, all. I'll get back in the queue.

Yeah. Sorry about that.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Scott Fromson, CIBC. Your line is open.

Hi there, first question is there a particular – good morning, folks. Is there a particular reason why Brad Green has been named CEO on its interim basis only? Does that reflect the timing of the onset of COVID-19 or is this – is there something more to it? I'm just wondering why he wasn't named permanent CEO.

Yeah. I think this requires a broader conversation, Scott. When Andrew indicated desire to step down, of course, the first observations the board had was to think of Brad Green and Jay Dodds...

Yeah.

...for those roles. They indicated that Jay prefers to run funeral homes and cemeteries and Brad was running acquisitions and integrations and dealing with capital markets, I think, while Brad's on the line, he could speak for himself, but dealing with capital work perhaps not a first love. And so armed with those answers, the board undertook the very public search with the very public announcement that we put out in mid-February.

The second branch of your question is so what's changed, and I think COVID has changed everything. Absolutely everything as you know. So given that we've stated, Brad said in his remarks earlier, we've stated in the press release that we live in uncertain time, capital expenditures will only be occurring on an as needed basis and acquisitions will be slowed down. So given that, given the challenges quite frankly, if conducting interviews in a CEO search although there are some good candidates that have come forward, the focus of the company is to give it a strong direction and focus on operations and on those things, we can control. And I think Brad's desire to step in and sit, we thank him for that, is an excellent choice on behalf of the company.

That sounds prudent though I can't imagine why dealing with the capital markets wouldn't be Brad's first love.

My second question is over the long term, how – over the, I guess, the medium term, how much revenue impact do you see from COVID-19 related, social distancing and the upcoming recession? How does that affect average ticket value?

Joe, do you want me to handle that one?

Yes, please, Brad.

Scott, so in the very short term that we've been dealing with this, right, we're going into basically week two. Jay and his operations team did an excellent job, in my opinion. They start – the first communication on this went out on March 2. So we were getting prepared for what ultimately happened weeks ago. Right now, we're not seeing a drop in our volume at all. And we're seeing on average sale around 7% decrease right now.

Yeah.

And we're trying to – and we're doing certain things to hopefully even equalize that a little bit better. So, while this has been, I would describe it catastrophic for some businesses, the fact that we remain open and have been able to pull levers means that it's not for us at least at this time for sure.

Not to be morbid, but I wouldn't imagine that you'd see much of a change in volumes.

Yeah. Obviously that with north of 3,000 deaths in the United States that, on an individual basis, is a lot of people, but given the overall death rate in the United States, that's still not something that you would see impacting a particular business or market of ours yet. But, yeah, that volume is – our volume normally in a very stable industry will remain stable. And so we wouldn't expect to see a volume drop.

And just to answer a question you haven't asked, but people would want to know on the phone, we have also not seen an uptick in our cremation rate and our business is more than normal. So it doesn't appear that there are customers who are changing their preferences as a result of this [indiscernible] (00:25:58).

Thanks very much. I'll turn it over.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Maggie MacDougall, Stifel. Your line is open.

Again, just a little more detail on the differences between funeral home integration and cemetery integration and in terms of timing and maybe, therefore, get a better understanding of sort of the path forward for those initiatives.

So when – this is Brad again. The differences between a cemetery and a funeral home on an integration, especially when you're buying large premier firms like we did in 2019, we don't go in and immediately disrupt what is already a well-run operation immediately because the relationships in the funeral homes, the relationships of the funeral homes with the community, those things take a little bit of time. And so we normally see six months to a year before we're able to do it anyway.

Last year, we obviously added a significant amount of acquisitions and had a significant acquisition activity within a 12-month period. I wouldn't expect to see something like that again. And it was heavily funeral home-based, and that's where the integration came in to the fourth quarter. In a cemetery, you normally do not have that type of relationships to the community or relationships to family. It's more heritage. If my family members have been buried in that cemetery, I know people who have been buried in that cemetery, you go to that cemetery. So it's easier to make operational changes in the cemetery.

There's nothing wrong with the acquisitions that we, well, purchased in 2019. There's nothing that we see that surprised us. It's just in the fourth quarter, it didn't happen as fast as we anticipated. But we weren't going to hit the gas just because it wasn't happening as fast as we want and break a perfectly good business. So I wouldn't expect that in the first quarter you're going to see a difference. That's our jobs, and I expect that we're going to do them.

Okay, that's really helpful. And then we've seen, as a result of COVID, a lot of different circumstances where funeral homes, once the infection rates have gotten to a certain level, have had to sort of disband memorializations, and so I'm wondering if you could maybe talk to how you may anticipate that to play out in your various markets? And if you have any view as to how we should be thinking about the potential impact of COVID on your business in Q2?

Okay. That's a very fair question. And it really hits on a couple of different areas. I know that – I have heard similar things about funeral homes that you mentioned. That's not happening to us, and I can only tell you what it is that we – what we're doing. Obviously, it's an essential public function and what we do, we obviously must continue to do it especially in times like this. Obviously, it's an essential public function and what we do, we obviously must continue to do it especially in times like this.

Our employees, at the location level are used to that and they're rising to the challenge. This is not a surprise to them. They expect to have to go to work every day in this environment. So, we immediately just started focusing on, like most people would think it would be a prep room issue or back of the house where our people are dealing with actually deceased. But we already have procedures in place, very specific procedures for them to deal with the deceased when there are viruses that are out in this world that are much more dangerous than this one although maybe not as, you can catch it a lot easier. So, they were just following their normal procedures on a daily basis.

What we are really focusing on though is when they all start like our transfer staff going into homes and hospitals and nursing homes and hospice centers. I don't have to tell you guys, that's kind of obvious places where you need to be careful. So, we're having to do things that you would not have them do normally in the past, like wearing impervious smocks and making sure their masks and their gloves on. We're also asking questions before we go into these places, homes and others, on the phone. Did anybody been exposed or there are any specific cases, things that would be obvious for you to ask.

And then, as we get into this, the planning of the funeral services and things of that nature, we've started to utilize our technology platform and that's why we built it and so, you see us doing a lot of webcasting, a lot of videoconferencing of arrangements, things of that nature. So, we started like I said in early remarks, trying to get ahead of this and even when we've had, we've had few situations in the same market where we had employees test positive, and we've just simply closed those facilities down for a couple of days, had people come in and do a full cleaning as one might expect. But fortunate for us, we have, all -- most of our markets have multiple, multiple funeral homes and lots of employees in those markets, and we simply shifted the business from one location to another and then shifted it back after a couple of days. I know that's a lengthy answer to your question, but that's why we're not seeing the hiccups that we're hearing in other places because we're taking – then that's just scratching – that's just the tip of the iceberg, I could bore you with more things that we're doing. But I think you're getting a sense of why our funeral homes at this point in time are remaining open. I mean, any of that could change.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just one financial question, maybe for Joe. I noticed that you had some commentary notes, page out in the fourth quarter some of which I think were related to the CAD 75 million or I'm not sure of the purchase price, but the largest funeral home acquisition that you closed in January. Can you just talk to sort of the purpose of having those promissory notes in place and how that flows through into Q1? Did you essentially sort of prepay a portion of that acquisition in Q4 and we can adjust our Q1 cash flow from financing numbers to that?

Yeah. Those payments, Maggie are notes payable to former owners and we keep the money back because we've been provided with certain reps warranties non-compete agreements and so on. And so, that's the purpose – there are some shorter-term holdbacks that might get paid out just as we go through closing in the short period after closing. But these are sort of paid out over the longer term where they represent security on reps and warranties as I said, and non-compete agreements and that type of thing. And we think that's the sort of the prudent way to go about it.

Okay, thanks.

And thank you. Our next question come from Zachary Evershed, National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking my question.

Good morning.

And I would jump right in here on Kansas City both sides, Missouri and Kansas, we've been seeing some reports of some closing down funeral home operations. Are you guys not seeing that on the local level?

Not at all.

Okay. Great. Thanks for clarifying that. And then getting a little bit more into the weeds, this one will be for Joe. In Michigan, you guys realized a capital gain and recognized that in for revenue. I've noticed that because of pretty spike up in your pre-need interest income and other, how discretionary are the levers there or was that caused by something specific?

Yeah. Thanks, Zach. Yes. It is discretionary. It's really not something that's under our control in every things that we've invested in over a long period of time. They are good investments in terms of cash distributions and so on. And what we hope that is over the longer term that some of these types of investments will, in fact, give rise to additional income and capital gains and that's just what happened here. It was a situation where the owner of the property decided it was time to sell it. It was something that's not under our control. And the result was very good for us because this had been an investment that had been on our books for a long, long period of time. And we were just watching that enough to have a nice gain out of that particular investment.

So, would you qualify that as a one-time item?

Well, that was significant, but we have a number of those investments in our books and we would hope that over time, we're going to see that. We've always said that there's a number of things in the business that are not although – sometimes predictable are not linear and we can see some lumpiness in revenues. This would be one of them when we make bulk sales at cemetery properties, they're not always linear there. They can be a little bumpy when we close construction on mausoleum projects where we've presold. That revenue comes in, it's lumpy. And this type of thing can be lumpy, but it's certainly not a – just a one-time thing, but it's – but it can happen, we hope it will happen, continue to happen as we go forward.

Thank you very much. And one last one from me. Brad, you mentioned that the average ticket is down by about 7%. I'm assuming that's on the at-need side as morgue technology implementation goes in in the services. On the premium side, are you guys seeing a lower volume level with people self-isolate?

Just a little bit lower on the pre-need side to answer your question in reverse. Normally, when there's a trigger event to make people start thinking about pre-planning. And this is certainly a triggering event that makes people think about death literally. You normally see an uptick in pre-need, a good analogy this would be like a death of a family member or a friend. That's where our sales counselors would go in and people were thinking about that at that time. At this point, everyone is thinking about that. So, we're using again Zoom, Teams, FaceTime, Facebook Live Meetings. We're actually having seminars online, things of that nature. So, we are seeing a dip because you can't go meet with people, but we're getting ahead of it. So, again, it's not – it shouldn't be substantial.

And yes, as to your first question, the 7% is really on at-need funeral, which is something that we can have visibility on right now. And that was just to give you guys an overall view that, A, we're looking at it on a day-to-day and weekly basis, indeed, just to give you information as it's coming in real-time since this is happening quickly.

Appreciate that. I'll leave it there. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Raveel Afzaal from Canaccord. Your line is open.

Thank you, guys, for hosting the call. Just diving a bit deeper into the last question. Can you tell us how your pricing varies for the funeral homes based on the number of people that attend the service, or is there no impact?

There's no impact based on the pricing, based on the number of people that attend the services. And even though most markets that we're in have limit to the number, I don't know why I'd say, all markets that we're in have limit to the number of attendees. And if they have it we have internally, that does not affect our pricing at all. And even those people who are purchasing funerals at this time and electing, there're a lot of them that are electing not to have a service, and we're just going to postpone those into some point in the future. So, that's a long way of saying the number of attendees does not impact our pricing, and we haven't seen at this point in time an impact in that pricing either.

Perfect. Thank you. And then, looking at your 2019 organic growth, can you tell us how much of that came from price increases?

Joe, that would be for you.

Yeah. Raveel, I don't have the exact on price versus volume on the organic growth. But historically, it's been on a price-versus-volume basis on the organic growth and just understanding where the growth came from, I would say, that it's a pricing issue versus a volume issue.

Got it. Perfect. And just finally, just if you can speak a little bit more about the G&A increase in the Houston office, what is that related to back office, more sales professionals, like, can you just give us some more color on what this is relating to?

Yeah. It wouldn't be in the sales. The sales numbers are in the field. It would be more of the back office and infrastructure-related expenses, Raveel, to build out the corporate and head office, finance accounting teams, M&A, payroll, legal, risk management, that type of expense. There's some sales and training and so on that's in the head office, but the actual sales force is in the field and not in either head office.

Makes sense. Perfect. Thank you. That's all for me. Thank you, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Johann Rodrigues, Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hi, everyone. Just – sorry, just to go back to the margins for the new acquisitions. Where exactly was EBITDA margins for Horan, Cress, and Baue?

We don't give individual information on individual properties. But they were not as significant margins as the other businesses, and that's what caused the drag. But as Brad had said, Johann, we will – we are taking immediate steps and those businesses will be integrated. And we're very confident that we will get those margins back to sort of the historical levels of other Park Lawn funerals and cemetery businesses.

Okay. And I think it was asked before, but I just wanted to clarify, do you expect to be back at that 22%, 23% range in Q1, or is it more kind of back half of 2020 that you expect to be back there?

Yeah. Well, our plans would be to have it for the year back to our historical levels and previously communicated levels in an environment that was status quo. I think when we're looking at the COVID to – environment to kind of predict timing on that is really uncertain and we wouldn't want to do that. But we would typically expect that for the year, and it can be bumpy through the year. But overall, we would expect it to be back in a steady-state environment by the end of 2020 on a 12-month basis.

And then, just turning to the trust given the allocation of equities there, should we be expecting the income from care and maintenance funds to, I don't know, be cut in half or more than that given what the markets did in Q1?

When you look in the care and maintenance funds specifically, we had just over 40% I think allocation at the end of the year in equities and then some preferred shares up to 50%. And speaking with our portfolio managers, and there's a number of them, these are investments in dividend-paying equities that you would consider to be quite stable. We're not taking huge risks on [indiscernible] (00:42:27) type of cuts and distributions and so on.

And so in my discussions with them, and there have been numerous over the last few weeks, they are not expecting that kind – anywhere close to that kind of reduction in the distributions, and we have another 35% or so in fixed incomes and a small amount of cash and some smaller investments in the alternative investments that are continuing to make payments.

So the short – the long – that's a long answer to a short answer, which is any discussions that had with the portfolio managers don't indicate that kind of distribution, Johann.

Okay. And last question, what would your expectation for comparable business growth be for 2020 given the freeze on the CapEx side of things while the pandemic is ongoing?

Yeah. I don't think the freeze on the CapEx is going to impact the 2020. Insignificant, those expenditures would have been to make expansions and do some building and so. Once again, with – our expectation would have been traditional growth. It just depends on how long it takes us to get through this period of this near-term disruption and so on. So, it's very difficult to make that prediction in 2020. But going forward, beyond that, we would see us back to kind of a traditional organic growth rates we've communicated.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Yeah.

Thank you. Our next question comes from John Novak, CCL. Your line is open.

This is a question for Brad. I just wondered if the book sales have been impacted in the current environment or if they continue through this or if you've noticed any recent trends with respect to the selling of the bulk plots.

So, not at all yet and I say that because that's one of the things that J and I were just talking about and we're focusing on and watching. And so, the only answer I can give you is that we're early in this process and we haven't seen that impacted yet at all. But with the current COVID environment, who knows, but right now we're looking at that and haven't seen it.

And on any of the pre-need services that you're currently performing, have you had to offer any refunds for services that you haven't been able to provide?

Not yet. I'm not aware of a single incident that has occurred.

I think what you said previously was that you've just deferred those services to a later date whether it's memorialization or an interment of ashes or something like that.

That's correct. And it's always helpful for me to remember. If you step back and remember what it is we do, that individual that you're deferring the service on, I mean, that's still someone's mom or dad or sister or brother or family friend, right? And so, people are still looking to do that and they recognize they can't do it now. So, putting that off into the future would be, I think, a natural reaction of anyone on this phone call. So, it's not that strange, if you will, for them to purchase this service, allow us to care for their loved one in whatever manner in which they've chosen, and then us to just wait. That, to me, makes sense.

Okay. And last question for Joe, should we just assume that you're somewhere in that CAD 7 million to CAD 7 million for CapEx for the year in any of the expansion CapEx on the mausoleums and the cemetery's to just push to the right?

Yes, John. That would be certainly right on the growth CapEx [ph] for the time being (00:46:11). When I say on the maintenance CapEx, to the extent possible, we are in a situation where we're doing what we absolutely need to do. And if there's any opportunity just to defer, we would take that opportunity. But with maintenance CapEx, it's not always possible. But that's the short answer to it.

Okay. And Joe, just for 2019, can you give us the mix on revenue basis for at-need, pre-need and bulk, just rough percentages?

At-need, pre-need and bulk. Well, on the cemetery side, it hasn't changed significantly, John, from what we've always communicated in that sort of 65% to 75% is pre-need. All of the bulk would be included in that number. And on the funeral side, of course, it's – what we've recognized is essentially either at-needs or conversions of premium to at-needs or all be on an at-need basis.

Okay. Thank you very much.

And the split there was 60/40, I think with the [indiscernible] (00:47:45) cemetery.

Okay, great. Thank you very much, Joe.

Yes.

Thank you. And that concludes the questions in the queue at this time. I'll turn the call back to the presenters for closing remarks.

This is Paul Smith. I'm the Chairman. As I've mentioned at the outset, I want to thank all those who attended this morning's call in these difficult times. We can assure you that we've doubled down our efforts to run the corporation the way you would expect us to, and we wish our employees and each one of you and your families, a very best during these times. Thank you very much, operator.

This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.