Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Scott Fromson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Paul Bilenki — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Zachary Evershed — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Raveel Afzaal — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Denise and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation Year-End 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Andrew Clark, Chairman and CEO, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Denise. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. With me on the call is Joe Leeder, our CFO. Today's call is being recorded and a replay will be available after the call.

Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward-looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they are not recognized measures and do not have standardized meetings under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures, including for reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures.

I'll begin today with an overview of our business highlights for 2018. Joe will follow with a more detailed review of our financial results and outlook. After our prepared remarks, we will take your questions.

Our results for the year ended December 31, 2018 reflect the continued successful execution of our business plan. During 2018, the company completed several acquisitions in Canada and in the United States. The more significant of these being the acquisition of the Signature Funeral and Cemetery Investments in May of 2018 and the acquisition of CMS Mid-Atlantic in March of 2018.

Over the period from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2018, the company has added 66 cemetery properties, 52 funeral homes including 12 on sites and 14 crematoria to its portfolio. We've expanded and diversified our geographic footprint to include the states of New York, New Jersey, New Mexico, Texas, Kentucky, Kansas, Missouri, North and South Carolina and the province of British Columbia. The company has also added to the existing operations in Ontario, Manitoba and Saskatchewan.

In the fourth quarter, specifically, the company completed the acquisition of Wells Funeral Homes and Cremation Services, a two-location funeral business in Waynesville and Canton, North Carolina. The company also completed its acquisition of all the outstanding membership interests of Citadel Management LLC and made an investment in Humphrey Funeral Home A. W. Miles – Newbigging Chapel in Toronto.

In addition to the cemetery and funeral operations acquired over this period, the company also added experienced management teams and established a head office for its U.S. operations in Houston, Texas. The PLC team in Houston has begun to integrate the acquired businesses by establishing regional business units to share resources more effectively, achieve best practice sales strategies, modernize and integrate information systems, centralize human resources, risk management, finance procurement and other key functions in order to realize cost savings and other synergies going forward. We are delighted to welcome so many new members to our PLC team.

The company achieved an improvement in its operating results in 2018 compared to 2017 as a result of its acquisitions. Revenue increased year-over-year by 84.9% to CAD 161.4 million for the year-ended December 31, 2018, as compared to CAD 87.3 million for 2017 and revenue for Q4 2018 increased by 95.2% to CAD 50.6 million compared to CAD 25.9 million for the same period in 2017. After adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange, revenue growth from comparable business units year-over-year was 6.4% and revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2018 was 10.8% versus 2017.

I'd now like to turn over the call to Joe to review our 2018 financial results in more detail, as well as our outlook.

Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our 2018 operating results in our financial statements and MD&A, which are available on our website and on SEDAR. And to start with, as Andrew had just mentioned in terms of our total revenue, and I'll repeat it because it is quite impressive this year, our revenue for the year was CAD 161 million, an increase of 85% over 2017. And excluding revenue from acquired businesses over the past year, growth from comparable business units, adjusted for foreign currency fluctuations, grew organically by 6.4%. In the fourth quarter alone, our revenue from comparable business units grew by, currency-adjusted, 10.8%.

The revenue growth was primarily attributable to our cemetery operations as a result of increase in pre-need sales, the completion of construction projects on previously sold cemetery property, expansion of our cemetery inventory and opening of new cemetery properties as well as increased investment income from our trust funds.

We saw continued improvement in our gross margin for the year and in the quarter. Gross profit margin for the full year improved by 270 basis points to 79.3% compared with 76.6% last year. And in the fourth quarter, we also saw improvement in the gross margin by 320 basis points to 79.3% compared with 76% in the fourth quarter of last year.

The overall improvement in the gross margin is attributable to acquired cemetery businesses as these businesses require a lower contribution to perpetual care of funds on property sales and also the inclusion of additional funeral business which comes at a higher gross margin. Our overall operating expenses in 2018 increased by CAD 108 million from CAD 58 million in 2018. This is largely a result of the inclusion of our acquired businesses.

So looking specifically at our general and admin, maintenance and selling expenses from comparable business operations and adjusted for currency fluctuations, there was an increase in operating expenses of approximately CAD 2.1 million this year over 2017.

Approximately half of that increase is attributable to higher cost to support the growth of our business including our public company costs, legal and audit tax planning, listing fees and so on associated with the public companies. Approximately CAD 700,000 of the increase was attributable to selling, advertising costs including sales commissions which were incurred to support our revenue growth initiatives that I just talked about. And the balance of the increase relates to a small increase in maintenance costs from a comparable cemetery business units.

Interest expense in 2018 was higher by CAD 2 million, and this relates directly to the utilization of our credit facility to fund the recent acquisitions, as well as an increase in the amortization of our deferred financing costs, which we incurred to establish the credit facility. Our aggregate bank and other debt at the end of 2018 was approximately CAD 96 million compared to only CAD 4.4 million at the end of 2017.

2018 was a significant year for our M&A activity and, associated with this increased activity, our acquisition and integration costs in 2018 totaled CAD 10.4 million. I had mentioned in previous quarters that we would continue to see larger acquisitions and the integration costs moving forward in 2018 as we execute our acquisition strategy, and that is what happened. And as you know, IFRS requires that these costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized and amortized in future periods.

Our effective tax rate for 2018 was 23.3%, which is in line with the percentage range that we had communicated in previous calls, and largely in line with our Canadian statutory tax rate of 26.5%. However, in 2017, our effective tax rate was 8%. The increase in the effective tax rate year-over-year is largely related to changes in the internal revenue code in the U.S., which were announced last December which, for us, impacted the treatment of exempt surplus distributions from the U.S. to Canada, which had been tax free distributions prior to 2018. Under the new rules, these distributions are now taxable. So, as a result of the above, our net earnings attributable to PLC shareholders was CAD 6.7 million in fiscal 2018 compared to CAD 4.2 million in 2017. And this represents fully diluted earnings per share of 32.5% (sic) [CAD 0.325] this year compared to CAD 0.314 per share in 2017.

As you know, we also report two non-IFRS earnings measures in our financial statements and MD&A and the purpose of the non-IFRS measures is to adjust for the after-tax impact of certain non-operating, non-recurring or non-cash expenses. In the current quarter, these include acquisition integration expenses and share-based compensation expenses associated with our [indiscernible] (00:10:51) program.

After making adjustments for these items, our adjusted net earnings attributable to PLC shareholders for fiscal 2018 was CAD 15.9 million compared to CAD 8.6 million in 2017, an increase of 86%. And on a per share basis, the 2018 adjusted net earnings was CAD 0.77 per share compared to CAD 0.64 per share last year and that is a 20.1% increase year-over-year.

In the fourth quarter alone, the adjusted earnings per share was CAD 0.21 compared to CAD 0.183 last year, and that represents an increase of 18% quarter-over-quarter. And remember, that this growth in adjusted earnings per share is after including a fairly significant increase in our effective tax rate between 2017 and 2018.

Our adjusted EBITDA to PLC shareholders for 2018 was CAD 34.7 million compared to CAD 16.6 million in 2017, and that's a year-over-year increase of 109%. And on a per share basis, 2018 adjusted EBITDA was CAD 1.68 per share compared with CAD 1.25 last year, and that's an increase of 35% year-over-year. Fourth quarter alone, the adjusted EBITDA per share was CAD 0.48 compared to CAD 0.36 in 2017, and that's also an increase of 33% quarter-over-quarter.

This significant double-digit year-over-year growth in per share and adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA per share reflects the impact of deploying our capital in 2018. We ended 2017 with nominal amount of debt and combined with the equity financing, we completed in May of this year, it left us well-capitalized to execute our acquisition and organic growth strategy. And during 2018, we put that capital to use, investing approximately CAD 275 million on acquisitions. Our adjusted per share earnings and EBITDA now reflect a more realistic run rate for our current business.

We still have borrowing capacity available on our credit facility and we will use that capacity to fund the Cress acquisition which we announced earlier this year. Also, our adjusted EBITDA profit margin 2018 was 21.9% compared to 19.8% last year. We have seen improvement in EBITDA profit margins in recent quarters as a result of the acquisition of higher margin businesses, spreading our corporate expenses across a broader earnings base, and a general improvement in margins from comparable business units. That is a trend that we expect will continue as we integrate our acquired businesses and execute our growth strategy in the coming years.

And now, a few words about our balance sheet. As I mentioned, we ended 2018 with approximately CAD 96 million in total debt compared with only CAD 4.4 million at December 31 last year. This level of debt, combined with our CAD 225 million credit facility, provides the company with significant capital to fund acquisitions and organic growth opportunities going forward.

Cash on hand this year was CAD 14.1 million, similar to the cash on hand last year, and that brings our net borrowings to CAD 82 million after reflecting this cash. And that puts us comfortably below our communicated comfort range of 2 to 2.5 times for a leverage ratio.

Net working capital was CAD 40.8 million this year compared with CAD 25 million last year. Also, we have a pipeline of future revenue currently sitting on our balance sheet in the form of deferred revenue, cash in pre-need trusts and pre-need insurance contracts. This backlog of future revenue currently sits at approximately CAD 475 million, representing a significant source of future revenue for the company.

And finally, during our Q2 earnings call, we indicated that we were targeting approximately CAD 25 million in organic growth spending over the next 18 to 24 months, and CAD 40 million over the next three to four years, the capital to be deployed on growth initiatives such as cemetery expansion, on-site and stand-alone funeral homes, visitation centers and new mausoleum construction.

During 2018, we spent approximately CAD 8 million on these shorter term targets. Our maintenance capital expenditures for 2018 were approximately CAD 4 million, below our intended goal to be in line with our annual depreciation expense, which was CAD 5.7 million this year.

And I'll now turn the call back over to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Joe. 2018 was another transformative year for Park Lawn Corporation with robust acquisitive growth, as well as a significant focus on the integration of our expanding platform in the United States.

We believe our 2018 results show a clear focus and progress towards our 2022 target. Achieving this long-term target is based on the following key assumptions. Acquisitions will contribute approximately CAD 35 million of incremental pro forma adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022. Margin expansion through synergies and operational improvements will contribute approximately CAD 7 million to CAD 8 million of incremental pro forma adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022.

Organic growth through price increases; introduction of new products and services; investment in mausoleums, onsite funeral homes, and other growth capital projects will contribute approximately CAD 10 million to CAD 12 million of incremental pro forma adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022.

Organic growth capital of approximately CAD 40 million, some of which Joe referenced in his comments, is deployed between 2019 and 2022. And our target leverage ratio remains in the range of approximately 2 times to 2.5 times debt-to-pro forma adjusted EBITDA throughout.

Looking ahead, we remain optimistic about our pipeline of opportunities, both organic and acquisitive in nature. We believe we are well-positioned to continue creating value for our shareholders in 2019 and beyond.

Joe and I are now ready to open the line for questions. Denise, please go ahead.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Scott Fromson from CIBC. Your line is open.

Morning, folks. Nice quarter. Can you break down the organic growth by geography and split between traditional and sort of more trend-forward services? 10.8% is great, but it sounds above normal.

Yeah. So, Scott, we can comment on that. That was in Canada. It was relatively smaller in Canada at about 2% organic growth. In the U.S., it was about 8.9% organic growth in the quarter. A lot of that organic growth was attributable to the opening and initial sales at the Lafayette property in New Jersey.

Okay. And how much would be driven by intensified sales efforts?

I'm not sure what you mean by intensified?

Just the sharing of best sales practices across the organization, sort of, bringing the Signature and Saber sales intensity to other businesses?

I'd say we're still fairly early days in that type of integration. And so, I don't know if there's any material impact that we could directly point to as attributable specifically to that in this quarter. But certainly, the efforts are underway and ongoing across the platform in the U.S. but we can't point to anything to any specific organic growth related precisely to that.

Okay, great. Thanks. I'll rejoin the queue.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Johann Rodrigues with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hey, guys, just more slicing and dicing of the comparable gross number. Do you have a sense as to what that would be ex-intensification? Do you understand what I'm saying?

Not exactly. So, excluding the Lafayette sales, is that that kind of what you're getting at?

Yeah.

Yeah. I mean...

Excluding any building on excess land, basically, just kind of the level of price increases that, I guess, contributed to that?

Well, price increases are generally on cemeteries, I think, as we've discussed before historically. You can point to sort of 5% per year as the average price increase over the last 50 years as an industry standard on cemetery price increases. I think, specifically on what – so, on the CMS, like carving that part of it out, we would have been closer to the 5% to 6% organic growth rate across the system as opposed to 10% in the quarter...

Okay.

In the quarter.

That's helpful. But, I mean, what stage or how have sales been in Lafayette so far?

Well, very good. I mean, as you may recall there, they're generally bulk sales. So, there will be some lumpiness to them, but the initial view is that we don't anticipate any challenge in selling out that Phase 1 in the five-year timeline that we originally anticipated.

Right. Okay. Right. So, presumably, your organic growth number, comparable business number would continue to accelerate from here like...

That's our expectation.

...on a long-term basis.

Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.

That's helpful. How are you guys doing about the acquisition pipeline?

The pipeline is robust at the moment. We're feeling pretty good about it. There's a number of opportunities across a number of jurisdictions and we're not seeing any material move away on pricing off where we've historically guided to. So, we're feeling pretty confident about our pipeline right now.

Okay. Okay. And last question before turn I back. What was the margin at year-end in Michigan?

The year-end margin would have been higher-single digits. That was driven by quite a strong fourth quarter in Michigan there. Relatively speaking to where they've been historically, we're confident enough in how that business is sort of developing and progressing that I don't think we're going to be continuing to isolate it as a sort of challenge within our business more broadly. We're feeling pretty confident with everything that's going on in Michigan under renewed leadership there and with some of the integration work that we've done in between that business and our head office in the U.S. in Houston. So, we're feeling very confident with what's going on there right now.

Okay. Great. Thanks I'll turn it back.

Your next question comes from Maggie MacDougall with Cormark. Your line is open.

Morning.

Morning, Maggie.

Morning, Maggie.

I was hoping you could provide us with a little more detail on your internal organic growth projects. You've given a bit of high level guidance, CAD 25 million in the near term spend, CAD 40 million over the next several years. But it sounds like you've got quite a lot of various opportunities on your plate. And so, if you could maybe just briefly touch on each of them and include CapEx and timeline to completion?

So, we can comment specifically on the projects, many of them are our estimated budgets. At this point in time, we're very leery about commenting on CapEx numbers related to specific construction projects because I'm sure you should know those projects don't always land where you expect. Sometimes they're better, sometimes they're worse, but they're almost certainly different from what the initial budget is. So, the principal investments, I think starting from smallest quantum to larger would be – we've acquired some land and are now under construction of a funeral home in Taos, New Mexico, which will add to our footprint in New Mexico.

We're in the process of our permitting phase for the on-site funeral home at Forest Lawn Cemetery in Houston, Texas. We are again in the planning phases with the City of Toronto of an on-site funeral home at Westminster Cemetery in Toronto. That would be the largest of the projects in terms of overall capital expenditure and it would be the largest by a fair margin.

I would also say that we expect to be in the fourth quarter of this year opening the third floor at the Westminster Mausoleum here in Toronto. So, those combined gets us awfully close to that CAD 25 million number with a meaningful portion of that being tied up in the funeral home at Westminster. We also included in that CAD 25 million number was the CAD 1 million or so that we spent to invest it in the Lafayette property in New Jersey, which is already obviously selling.

Okay.

Included also, Maggie, is the original purchase price of that land, which was $3 million.

Is that land close to cemetery that you've got in New Mexico?

That was in...

The funeral home?

...in New Jersey.

I'm sorry the...

That is the property in New Jersey.

Okay. Yes. I thought Joe was talking about the New Mexico land, you said you required land...

New Mexico is a standalone funeral home in a market which currently doesn't have a funeral home operating in it.

Okay. Thank you. That's all great. And then, I was wondering, with regards to MMG, I noticed that you took in a CAD 1 million impairment on it and your goodwill test assumptions appear to be really conservative, a high discount rate and a low growth. So, I was just curious, sort of, the rationale. I mean I know how the math works, but just what's gone on there to prompt that impairment?

And now, I mean, I'm assuming you probably have a clean slate going forward and you've put in place a lot of changes in MMG, both with regards to staffing and then also just process. So, a little more commentary around genesis of the impairment, and then what's going on with MMG, in particular, and I know you mentioned you're probably not going to need to isolate it going forward, which sounds positive, so bit more detail there.

Sure. So, the goodwill write-down related, so you may recall that there was an earn-out consideration associated with the purchase of the MMG business that we had accounted for. There is our indication that, well, we're not going to have an earn-out obligation related to that business. So, the write-off of that earn-out, the entry on the other side was to write down goodwill, as I understand it. Perhaps Joe can give a bit more color.

Okay. So, you wrote off the liability and you had to write off the asset as well?

Right. Yes.

Okay.

Maggie, you may recall when we bought the business, the earn-out portion of the purchase price under IFRS is also included in the goodwill. So, you include as the purchase price not only the cash down but the expected earn-out payment.

Okay.

So when we wrote off the remaining contingent earn-out payment, we also looked at the goodwill and wrote it off by a corresponding amount.

Okay. Okay. Thanks. That's really helpful. And then just, if you could comment on MMG and where you're at for early in 2019 and the outlook for the year with regards to margin and improvement on pre-need sales?

Yeah. So, as I said earlier, we are feeling pretty confident as it sits right now with the business in Michigan, which now we've sort of – we've reclassified it as our Midwest region, adding our properties in Illinois to that region. But we've taken a considerable amount of cost out of that system starting at the beginning of January. Related to credit and collections, work has been removed. That credit and collections teams that was in Michigan is no longer in Michigan. It's been centralized more broadly. Our payroll functions were merged for the legacy Signature business, were merged with the MMG business, so that has put payroll and all of those functions under a single roof.

We are currently in the process of reviewing company-wide. It's not exclusive to Michigan, but it will have benefits there. We're doing a financial analysis of our 401(k) plans across the company and expect some opportunity there. We've looked in Michigan, for example, at how we pay salespeople and the timing in reserve account issues around that which would all file accounts, will drive some not-insignificant savings on the payroll side, the actual cost side for salespeople in that market.

So, I think broadly speaking the business there is relatively stable. We haven't seen any material uptick or downtick in pre-need sales but we certainly have a more focused, engaged cost control effort going on there effectively property-by-property basis under a really capable leadership team that we're building out there. So, we're feeling quite confident. I wouldn't say that there's necessarily a revenue issue that we have identified specifically. It's really sort of finding ways to continue to take cost out of that operation and tighten things up.

Okay. Okay. Thanks a lot. I'm going to jump back in the queue. I'll let someone else ask some questions.

Great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from Paul Bilenki with TD Securities. Your line is open.

Thank you and good morning.

Good morning, Paul.

Can you comment on how at-need sales were in the quarter? Were they above or below your expectations at all?

Largely in line with our expectations. I think market-by-market it can be quite different and can be varied. So, generally speaking, we've continued to see some softness in certain pockets of the Canadian market but I think indications are that has at least stabilized if not turning around, and it is to no extent geographically focused on Canada. There are pockets in Canada where at-need sales have been quite strong.

Same thing in the U.S. There are pockets where at-needs sales are lagging our expectations in other areas where they're exceeding our expectations. Generally speaking, however, at a portfolio level, everything is certainly in line with where we thought it would be.

Okay. Great. Then, there's been some pretty significant flooding across parts of the U.S. recently. Has that impacted any of your properties at all?

No.

No. Okay. And have you seen any sort of negative impacts on Q1 from some of the other extreme winter weather we've seen in the quarter?

A little early for us to formally comment on Q1. But – so I prefer to reserve judgment at this point in time.

Yeah. Okay. No problem. I understand. And then I saw you sold some real estate in the quarter for CAD 1.5 million. Are there other opportunities to sell real estate in your portfolio or maybe some properties that might not fit well with certain market conditions or the micro-market that they operate in? Are there other opportunities to maybe divest in assets?

Yeah. I think the property that we sold was here in Toronto. It was a function of merging two of our lower cost businesses here in Toronto and rationalizing the operation under a single rooftop. So, that property became surplus and we had an attractive offer on it. So, we were able to move relatively quickly. And we'll be opportunistic about that as we are about other things. We don't have anything specifically in mind right now that we're looking to actively offload anywhere within the portfolio. That was really a unique circumstance based on as you said a micro-market condition.

All right. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Stephen Harris with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just I wanted to talk a little bit about the integration process and how that's going. If you can give us an update maybe as to how things are progressing relative to your schedule both budgets, time to completion sort of surprises positive and negative along the way?

Yeah. Absolutely. I mean I think we had originally went announcing the Signature acquisition, talked about CAD 0.75 million worth of expense that would be relatively early in the process with CAD 2 million to CAD 3 million worth of synergies coming within 24 to 36 months. I think we can fairly confidently say and everybody on the call would be able to construe that most of that if not all of that expenses has now been dealt with. And a lot of that relates to building up the infrastructure and the head office functionality, staffing and so on in the Houston market so that we can look for opportunities to take those redundant functions out of the field.

So, as I mentioned in earlier comments around MMG or the former MMG business now the Midwest business, it obviously is the priority item. So we're focusing on taking the cost that's coming out of the field is starting in Michigan and then going to move through the former Citadel operations in North Carolina, then onto the legacy Saber business and legacy CMS business, now the Southeast and Northeast regions of the company.

So, I would say that we started taking a lot of cost out of Michigan in January. We're expecting the next waiver around the business in North Carolina to start at any time now and then, legacy Saber and legacy CMS to start sort of through Q3 and Q4 of 2019. So, we're on track. We've certainly built up the infrastructure required to take cost out of the field and also we believe to layer on incremental acquisitions as and when they come.

So, we're pleased. I wouldn't say there's been a material surprise either positive or negative either way, Steve, to be completely frank with you. It's been a lot of work and our team in – who's been running these integration efforts should be commended based on the amount of efforts that's involved. But, there's not been any surprises that we would feel necessary to raise.

Great. And so, when you're referring mostly there to the sort of the head count reductions that follow with the integration, is that when you're talking about timing?

Yeah. So, head count integration, I mentioned earlier, we're doing a financial analysis currently on integrating our 401(k) plans in the U.S. across the entire business. And we expect that that will have some benefit. All of our benefits administration right now has gone – we've got a software package to deal with the benefits management and so on. So, that will take considerable cost out of the field as well.

We continue to invest in the integration of our IT systems, of our risk management functions. We've brought in in-house counsel into Houston, who's going to take a lot of the legal cost of third-party firms off the table so, that type of thing, in addition to the head count.

Great. And I wonder if you could just switch and come to the acquisition pipeline. I think the last time you gave us an update on it, you talked about that it was robust, but maybe seeing a little bit more in terms of funeral home opportunities versus cemeteries. Is that still the case and sort of – in terms of quantum, should we be thinking of things along the lines of the Cress acquisition or are there larger or smaller situations out there as well?

The acquisition opportunities run the gamut from smaller ones to larger ones. I wouldn't want to provide anymore conviction at this point in time on any of those given where we are in the form that we're on. I would say that just in terms of the number of funeral homes versus cemetery opportunities, you're right, that is sort of a numbers game function more than anything else given there are so many more obviously privately held funeral home operations than there are cemetery operations. So, by virtue of that, we continue to expect to see more in terms of volume of those opportunities than we would on cemetery opportunities.

Great. And maybe finally in terms of the competitive landscape, what are you seeing in terms of participants in those acquisition processes? Is it getting more or less intense or about the same?

I would say it's about the same. Most of the folks that would show up to view acquisition opportunities that would be attractive to us would be well-known and people that we would have seen on evaluating other opportunities that we've looked at in the past.

Great. Thank you.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Zachary Evershed with National Bank. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, Zach.

Hi, Zach.

The 10.8% comparable growth, you make reference in the MD&A to that including the contribution from acquired businesses. You also mentioned that if you strip out CMS, it would be around 5% to 6%. Do you have the organic growth figures if you strip out all the contribution from the acquisitions?

So that is...

The number, yeah.

... that is the number. There's no acquisition contribution in that 10.8%.

So the line for acquired companies comparable growth is calculated as the difference between actual revenue achieved by each company in the financial period following acquisition compared to corresponding proceeding?

Correct. Yes.

All right. Perfect. And do you have the FX contribution in the quarter?

I don't have it right at the moment, but I would have thought it would have been maybe a couple of points less, Zach. The average rate during the year was increased from like high [ph] 1.27 to 1.31 (00:44:09) something like that. So, it was not that significant.

Beauty. My other questions have been answered. I'll turn it over.

Thank you, Zach.

Your next question comes from Raveel Afzaal with Canaccord. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. A few questions for you. How much are you forecasting for integration expenses for 2019? Or if you can just give us a rough range for that?

We haven't necessarily forecasted those integration expenses for 2019 on a gross basis. A lot of these expenses – we made the initial commitment to CAD 0.75 million, as I said, those through the back half of 2018 and up to some of the integration activities that we've described taking place in 2019 that has been largely committed. So I would expect that the integration expenses will then be more based on specific return on investments for specific initiatives. So, we haven't necessarily budgeted an integration expense beyond what we previously disclosed.

Got it. So, these head count, these 401(k) benefit integration, IT systems, when you said that they were happening in this January, so is it safe to say, like, just to make sense of this, CAD 1 million for the quarter? Is that how you would think about it?

No, no, no. We think about it – we don't think about it quarter to quarter. We think about like we've spent – we've made those investments of that CAD 0.75 million or so. We would expect over the next 24 to 36 months that we would pick up CAD 3 million of pickup from that CAD 0.75 million investment. We don't try and manage our business to the quarter. We manage it through the arc of – the shortest period would be over the course of a year, but more likely we're managing over a two- to three-year period in line with the 2022 target.

Makes sense. Perfect. And acquisitions, I completely understand that it's a very fluid situation, but the multiples can vary somewhat from a smaller acquisition to a larger acquisition, and knowing that it's a fluid situation, what type of a budget do you have to get to this CAD 35 million EBITDA from new acquisitions? I'm estimating somewhere between CAD 250 million to CAD 300 million. Is that the right type of range to use to get to CAD 35 million or is there a different type of a budget that you have in mind?

We don't have a budget necessarily for it. There's a whole bunch of ways that we could get there and there could be a series of more modest or mid-sized acquisitions that would change – as you rightly pointed out, could change that number quite considerably or there could be a number of larger ones over the next couple of years that, again, could impact that number. I don't think – if you're trying to put a pin in it, your estimate is not unreasonable, but we don't, in the interest of full disclosure, think about it that way.

Perfect. And could you just remind us what your market share is in the U.S. right now and what type of a target you have in mind going into 2022?

Well, our market share will be sub-1%. We don't necessarily – we think about market share on a market-by-market basis rather than on a national or even state-wide province-wide level because the catchment areas of funeral homes and cemeteries are quite small. And so, we really think about local market share. And even bigger communities, bigger cities like Toronto, Houston, Detroit, New York, these type of markets, we would think of market share within subsections of that particular community. So, a national target is not one that we necessarily work on, it's market to market.

Perfect. And last question for me. You mentioned that a bunch of, I guess, a lot of strategics are also looking to acquire some of these assets. I wanted to see how often do you see private equity companies, some of the large private equity companies compete for these assets and actually end up winning these assets relative to strategics like yourself in the U.S.?

The private equity that's active in this space manifests itself in the form of sponsor players who we would view as industry folks. But there's not that we're aware of anyway. None of the sort of a household name private equity firms are active either as sponsors or otherwise in the space. So, I'm not sure if that answers your question.

That does. Perfect. Very helpful. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Scott Fromson from CIBC. Your line is open.

Hi. Just a quick one. Is there any update on the Cress acquisition process and any update on the Wisconsin combo outlook?

No update on the combo outlook and Cress, we would expect to close in line with where we indicated in the press release, Q2.

All right. Thanks.

And there are no more further questions in the queue at this time. I'll turn the call back over to Andrew Clark.

Thank you very much, Denise and thank you everybody for joining our call today. And to those shareholders out there, we appreciate your support and we look very much forward to continuing to build our business and franchise going forward. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.