Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
D. Joseph MacKay — Analyst, Clarus Securities, Inc.
Sanford Lee — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Brian D. Pow — Analyst, Acumen Capital Finance Partners Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Tiffany, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation Year-End 2017 Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. Andrew Clark, Chairman and CEO, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Tiffany. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today. With me on the call are Joe Leader, our Chief Financial Officer; and Suzanne Cowan, our VP, Business Development &Corporate Affairs. Today's call is being recorded, and a replay will be available after the call.

Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward-looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although, we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they're not recognized measures and do not have standardized meanings under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures, including for reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures.

I'll begin with an overview of our business highlights for the 2017 fiscal year. Joe will follow with a more detailed review of our financial results, both for the fourth quarter and the year end.

Our year-end results reflected the continued successful execution of our business plan. During 2017, we continued to make several important business acquisitions. The company's most significant acquisition was of Saber Management, LLC in the third quarter of 2017. The acquisition of Saber, which owns 19 cemetery properties and 4 funeral homes located in Kentucky, Texas and Illinois, further increased the number of cemeteries in the company's portfolio, added funeral home assets into its U.S. operations, and further diversified geographically the company's U.S. operations. Saber's experienced management team has joined the company's existing U.S. management team, which will help the company further execute its growth strategy.

In addition to the Saber acquisition, the company acquired several funeral businesses in Ontario in the first six months of 2017, which expect expanded the company's footprint and diversified business lines in that province. The company entered the British Columbia market in the first quarter of 2017, with the purchase of Providence Funeral Home and Crematorium and Credible Cremations (sic) [Providence Funeral Homes and Credible Cremations] (00:03:03).

In addition, the company expanded its operations in both Manitoba and Saskatchewan during the later six months of 2017, with the purchase of Vita in Manitoba and Christie's in Yorkton Saskatchewan with our partner at Parkland Funeral services. In the first quarter of 2018, the company acquired CMS Mid-Atlantic, which currently operates, manages and provides financial services for seven cemeteries in New York, New Jersey. And in addition, we acquired Billingsley Funeral Home in Huntsville, Ontario.

The operating results in 2017 reflect the continued successful execution of our business plan. As a result of the company's recent acquisitions, in 2017, revenue increased year-over-year by 29.8% to approximately CAD 87 million. After adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange, growth from comparable business units year-over-year was flat. However, excluding the Michigan-based MMG Cemetery business, which experienced softer pre-need sales in 2017, growth from other comparable business units increased 3.3% year-over-year. The company introduced new sales initiatives at the start of 2018 to improve pre-needs sales in the Michigan market. This is being overseen by the experienced sales leadership of Saber management.

I'd like to now turn the call over to Joe to review our 2017 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end financial results in more detail.

Thanks, Andrew; and good morning, everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our full-year and fourth quarter financial results in our press release, MD&A, and financial statements, which are available on or website or on SEDAR.

And I will start with some comments on the fourth quarter of 2017. Our total revenue for the three-month period ended December 31, 2017, was approximately CAD 25.9 million, an increase of 31% over the same three-month period last year. If I exclude revenue from our businesses acquired over the past year, revenue from the company's comparable businesses were less by 9.5% compared to the same period in 2016. Most of this decline is attributable to our cemetery operations in Michigan.

Revenue from other comparable business units declined 2.9% in the fourth quarter. And this decline is because of the comparable revenue in Q4 of 2016, which was particularly strong as the company had just opened a new mausoleum at Park Lawn Cemetery in Toronto during the fourth quarter of 2016. As you might recall in last year's results the organic growth in Q4 of 2016 compared to 2015 was 17.2%. So, revenue growth in the comparable quarter of 2016 was very robust, and a difficult quarter to be measured against.

The gross profit margin improved to 76.5% in the fourth quarter of this year compared to 71.5% for the same three-month period in 2016. Our gross profit margin can vary each quarter based on such factors as product mix, and investment income. And in the current quarter, the gross profit margins in the cemetery business were higher as Saber results were included for the full three-month period. And we had more funeral business in 2017 than 2016, which has higher gross margins than our cemetery business.

General administrative, selling, and maintenance expenses at comparable business units were lower than Q4 of 2016 by approximately CAD 910,000 in the aggregate. Most of the decline in operating expenses is related to lower sales revenue, however, G&A expenses in 2017 were higher by CAD 250,000 to support the company's overall growth initiatives. And as a result of the above, our earnings from operation for the three-month period ended December of 31, 2017, totaled approximately CAD 3 million, an increase of 144% over the CAD 1.2 million earned in the same period in 2016.

As with other reporting periods, there were other income and expense items, which were non-operating in nature that had a cumulative negative impact on our reported net earnings for the period, this includes items such as acquisition and integration costs, non-cash compensation expenses related to share based compensation, foreign exchange gains and losses ,and other miscellaneous amounts that are explained in detail in the MD&A.

As a result of these items the company reported net earnings attributable to PLC shareholders of CAD 2.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to net earnings of CAD 4.3 million for the same period in 2016. And our fully diluted earnings per common share attributable to PLC shareholders for 2017 was $0.146 per share compared with $0.456 per share in the same three-month period in 2016. And the weighted number of average common shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 2017 increased to 15.5 million shares compared to 9.5 million shares for the same period in 2016. And this is a 63% increase in the outstanding shares this year compared to last year.

As Andrew noted previously, by the end of the year, the company had not yet deployed all of the capital raised in its June 2017 prospectus offering, so we had some dilution in the current quarter. However, as of March 2017, all of this cash had been fully deployed.

And as discussed in our MD&A, we use non-IFRS measures to provide additional information that we believe is useful to investors and other third parties to assess our offering performance. One of these measures is adjusted net earnings, and so in calculating adjusted net earnings we eliminate the after tax impact of the one-time non-recurring non-cash expenses and revenue items that I had previously mentioned. We believe that the adjusted net earnings is a better reflection of the company's operating performance for these periods under review.

Adjusted net earnings attributable to PLC shareholders for the three months ended December 31, 2017, increased to CAD 2.8 million compared with CAD 1.2 million for the same period last year. This is an increase of 140% year-over-year. While the adjusted net earnings increased by 140% year-over-year, our fully diluted adjusted net earnings per share was CAD 0.183 in 2017 compared to CAD 0.124 in the same period in 2016, and this represents a year-over-year increase of 48%. And again, the increase in per share amount this year is limited by the dilution that I previously spoke about.

Another IFRS measure we use is adjusted EBITDA. The adjusted EBITDA attributable to PLC shareholders for the three-month period 2017 was approximately CAD 5.6 million or CAD 0.36 per share compared to CAD 3.2 million or CAD 0.34 per share in 2016. Again, although the adjusted EBITDA increased by 76% for the period, the fully diluted adjusted earnings per share increased by just 7.7% because of the impact of the dilution from the recent financings. I'll note that our adjusted EBITDA profit margin in Q4 2017 improved to 22.2% compared with 16.6% in Q4 of 2016.

I'll now make a few comments on our full-year operating results. The total revenue for the 12-month period ended December 31, 2017, was approximately CAD 87 million, an increase of 30% over the same period last year. If I exclude revenue from businesses acquired over the past year, our revenue from comparable business units adjusted for foreign currency fluctuations was flat year-over-year. However, excluding the Michigan cemetery operations, our revenue from comparable business units increased by 3.3% year-over-year.

Our earnings from operations for the year ended December 31, 2017, totaled approximately CAD 9.3 million, an increase of 72% over the same period ended December 31, 2016. And the company's net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2017, totaled CAD 4.5 million compared to CAD 7.9 million for the same period in 2016. And the fully diluted per share earnings attributable to equity holders of PLC for the year ended December 31, 2017, was CAD 0.31 compared to CAD 0.94 for the period in 2016.

And once again, there were the other income and expense items, which were non-operating in nature that had a cumulative negative impact on our reported earnings for the current period. The largest of these was the CAD 3.5 million income amount in 2016, relating to the change in fair value of the contingent earn-out payment and a CAD 4 million acquisition and integration expense in 2017. These times are fully examined in our MD&A.

Adjusting for the impact of these one-time non-recurring revenue and expense items, the adjusted net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2017, totaled CAD 8.6 million, an increase of 75% over CAD 4.9 million earned in 2016. The fully adjusted net earnings per share for this period in 2017 was CAD 0.64 compared to CAD 0.61 for the same period in 2016, and that represents an increase of 4.7% year-over-year.

Adjusted EBITDA attributable to PLC shareholders for the current year was CAD 16.6 million an increase of 50% over the CAD 11.1 million earned in 2016. It represents adjusted EBITDA of CAD 1.25 per share, a decline of 10% from CAD 1.39 adjusted EBITDA per share in 2016. And again, our adjusted EBITDA profit margins for the full fiscal year of 2017 was 19.8% compared to 17.5% in 2016.

Again, the weighted average common shares outstanding at the end of December 31, 2017, increased to 13.4 million shares compared with only 8 million shares for the same period in 2016, and that represents 67% increase in the shares outstanding over 2016, and again, the increase attributable to June 2017 perspective financing.

While management believes that the company benefited from raising the equity capital last year, the growth in adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA per share were negatively impacted by the dilution. We also believe that with the capital now fully deployed on the acquisition of CMS and other smaller funeral home acquisitions during the first quarter of 2018, the company will see growth in its adjusted per share earnings amounts and EBITDA per share going of going forward.

And one final comment, one our year-end financial statements, you will notice that we have modified the presentation of cemetery inventory on the balance sheet, we previously all of the cemetery property inventory was recorded as a current asset. The revised presentation is to include only the estimated inventory expected to be sold in the next 12 months as a current asset, and the remaining inventory as presented as a long term asset. This presentation is a better reflection of the intended use of the inventory and provides a better comparison to presentations of our peer group.

I will now turn the call back to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Joe. We're pleased to have delivered another successful quarter and year-end result and look forward to reporting on the first quarter of 2018 in May. Looking ahead, we remain optimistic about our pipeline of opportunities, both organic and acquisitive in nature. We believe that some of the changes we are making in the business will well-position us to continue to create value for our shareholders in 2018 and beyond.

Joe and I are ready to now open the line for questions. So, Tiffany, please go ahead and do so. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Leon Aghazarian with National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Just on – the first question would be on the Canadian side of the business. I do understand that there was a new mausoleum that opened in Toronto in Q4 2016. So, just can you talk to us a little bit about were there any other factors in the quarter that would help explain a little bit why kind of those a little bit weaker as well on the organic [ph] fund side (00:17:25)?

That is the significant issue Leon is the very challenging comparative period in Q4. There was some softness in the funeral side of our business, which obviously it being primarily an at-need business is sort of subject to factors beyond our control. But there was a modest amount of softness in the funeral side of the business in Q4 but nothing that, in our view, would be material in nature.

Okay. Fair enough. And in any of the other markets in Canada, such as maybe in Ottawa, were there any sootiness there, or is it kind of overall – what was your impression there?

Well, that would relate back to the comment about we don't have cemetery assets in Canada outside of Taranto, so all of that softness related to the funeral business would be in those other markets. Specifically, there was softness in the market in the Prairies, but that again, on a year-over-year basis, was not material.

Fair enough. Thanks for that. In the U.S. for the MMG, I mean, we know that, that's the main culprit behind the organic decline. Can you give us a bit more color as to what actually went on there? And again, you also mentioned that you did introduce some sales initiatives for 2018 to get the pre-need sales up, so can you talk to us a little about hat as well?

Sure. So our business at MMG has been historically lumpy relative to the rest of the portfolio. What we have identified late in the fourth quarter and started to implement early in the first quarter was a predictable plan-driven, process-driven repeatable sales process on the pre-need side. That is something that as we had been working with MMG, we have been more focused on the cost side of the income statement as opposed to on the revenue side of the income statement.

So, with the introduction of the Saber management team following that acquisition to the MMG business, we are now in the process of developing and also executing on a property-by-property basis, repeatable process driven sales platform that was previously not in place. It was more erratic and more ad-hoc, as opposed to that definitive clear process.

And is it possible to quantify the impact that you think that some of the organic decline had on margins that MMG would have?

We did address in our press release in – the enhancement in margin was partly attributable in some way to cost reductions at MMG. So, I think we don't breakout margins on a business unit by business unit basis specifically, so I'm not ready to give you disclosure on that specifically. But I can say that there is part of the margin enhancement is a result of the cost initiatives that we've taken at MMG. So, we don't necessarily correlate the revenue shortfall to declining margin.

Sure. I appreciate the color. Just one final one from me before I get back into queue would be just on the acquisition pipeline front, I mean you did mention that you're still quite active there. If you could just kind of reiterate what your comfort level would be in terms of your leverage, and what the pipeline looks like at the moment? Thank you.

No problem. So, the pipeline remains robust. There are a number of opportunities on both sides of the border at various sizes, I would say. They are – I would say, the history would provide a relatively useful marker post in terms of what the cadence of that transactions might look like. In terms of our leverage, our comfort level is around the 2 times debt to EBITDA level. That has not changed from historically. So, we have a bit of excess capacity currently. But in the event of our larger-scale acquisition, there would be a need to explore equity financing alternatives. So, the debt comfort level, Leon, has not changed.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Joe MacKay with Clarus. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I guess the question on margins, you've touched on that a couple of times, very impressive 22% in the quarter. If I look at it sequentially, improved from 18%. And if you kind of look at revenue sequentially, it increased CAD 3.5 million, EBITDA CAD 1.5 million roughly. So, the margin, the kind of the EBITDA that fell through offset revenue was about 44% which is very impressive. [ph] Ex the water (00:23:17) rebate, I guess, it was about 38%. Can you talk Andrew or Joe, just in your [indiscernible] (00:23:22) margins going forward in 2018, given your recent acquisition in New York State, I think it had 24% to 25% margins kind of what you're thinking at a consolidated level for 2018?

I think Joe, thanks for the question. I think our consolidated level for 2018 are our comfort zone is in the low 20% range, 20% to 22% in that range. We continue to hope to see improvements in the MMG business and the margin profile there. And as we fully integrate through Saber, CMS, other acquisitions low 20% range is – on an annual basis is not unreasonable.

Okay, great. Thank you. And maybe kind of have on the M&A side. I guess, maybe more specially, you kind of have four clusters now, if they will at least geographically. Can you talk like the need to infill. I know you said the pipeline is robust, but do you need to infill regions to get maybe the synergies that you require, or is just the matter of you're happy with the operations you have now and economies of scale you get from maybe going and purchasing, back office, et cetera that gets you where you need to be. How important is it to infill, I guess, the question?

There are advantages to infill although I'd say that there is not a significant amount of operating leverage in the cemetery business, unless they there are very tight geographic clusters. The average catchment area of a cemetery would be 10 square kilometers, 15 square miles that sort of range. So, it really becomes difficult to gain operating leverage without a relatively tight geographic cluster.

That said, the areas that you have highlighted on in terms of back office procurement, administration administration, finance, trust fund management, systems and technology are meaningful areas for us to explore synergies. But those can be achieved obviously on a wider scale so, while there may be some relatively small advantages to infill on the cemetery side, there's not as a screaming desire to do so.

Where those advantages coming from on infilling is really on funeral operations. And you will have seen some of the infill that we've done running north of Toronto. We're able to share resources, or staffing because it's more of a service orientated business, resources staffing those cremations from those markets north of Toronto are able to come into our facilities in this market. So, on the funeral side, there is more operating leverage opportunity than there is one the cemetery side.

Okay. Great. Thank you. I have just one final question. Is there anything on the regulatory front, in your jurisdictions that helps you or impede you that you see kind of going forward?

Not that we're aware of either helping or impeding.

Okay. That's great.

Quite unlikely...

Thanks very much.

...it would be helpful. [indiscernible]

(00:27:02). Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stanford (sic) [Sanford] (00:27:07) Lee with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. You guys have previously stuck your neck out and provided a nice, multi-year CAD 25 million EBITDA target for 2019. If you look at adding CMS to the last quarter annualized, you're now at like CAD 29 million EBITDA. So, just wondering, Andrew, are you going to stick your neck out again and provide an updated target for that?

Thanks for the question. We will be willing to stick our neck out. In the not too distant future, we're doing some board strategy conversations over the coming month or six weeks. And we'll be working on that with our board over the coming week. So, stay tuned, I would say, but we're not prepared to comment at this particular point in time.

That's fair enough. And as far as your M&A activity goes, looks like you have a lot more, I guess, runway or maybe a lower hanging fruit to go in the U.S. Can you give us your impression on where you prioritize your M&A activity right now U.S. versus Canada?

That's a good question. I think we have historically made two different types of acquisitions we've made through the more platform type of acquisitions in the United States and more bolt-on opportunities in Canada. I think we're looking for complementary businesses in either market that will help give us not only further scale, but further – to the point on the previous question further back office administrative type synergies, again, related to scale. So, we're geographically agnostic, for the most part, it's practically speaking, however, more scale assets are available or potentially available in the U.S. than they are in Canada.

Great. And you mentioned obviously the impact from the mausoleum opening in the Q4 2016. The last time that happened was Q3 2015 with the Westminster, and you provided a number of about CAD 1.2 million sort of bump from Mausoleum presales. Can you quantify the impact for Q4 2016, what you think that might have been?

I'm not sure that's a disclosed number.

Yeah.

So I...

I don't have that but perhaps we can get back to you on that one.

Sure.

I don't have that number right off hand right now. Even if we have disclosed that, I have to check on that.

Okay. I was going through a list of things here. You mentioned in the release, the 3.3% organic revenue growth, obviously excluding FX and MMG. You were running, I think, it was 2.5% at the nine-month mark for the year. So, it kind of implies Q4 2017 organic growth accelerated. Is that to be around 5% [indiscernible] (00:30:23), right? And can you comment some of these things that sort of growth rate organically mid-single digits is sustainable, given your new sales efforts in the Michigan?

I'll deal with the second question first. Mid-single digit organic growth rate is, well it has been sort of lumpy. And this quarter is evident of that that our business is highly predictable but it's not exactly linear in its predictability that we do not think that going forward a mid-single digit organic growth rate is unattainable. In other words we think it is – not use a double negative, we think it is the case. So, that answers the second part of the question.

On the organic growth in the quarter...

In which quarter were you speaking of, Sanford?

He was speaking of Q4.

For the Q4, 2017, correct. Now I thought in your opening comments, you mentioned negative 2.9%. But if you're looking at 3.3% for the full year – and I'm pretty sure, I read somewhere 2.5%, nine-month year-to-date for 2017. So, it seems to...

I would guess, that it would probably relate to the Saber business coming on for a full quarter and 2017. And the measurement of the organic growth on the Saber had in during the last quarter on the full year?

Okay. And maybe if I could just on the financial type question. The margin improvements that you're seeing are great. Can you maybe speak to what percentage or what type of contribution you're getting from the margin when it's related to revenue mix versus realization of cost synergy?

Again not a disclosed number, but a good portion of the incremental margin contribution was from the Saber business in the fourth quarter, so that would speak to better revenue margin contribution than cost reduction from the MMG business.

Great and then just lastly with – there were just some of your revenue now generated in the U.S. I know you've tried some hedging strategies in the past for currency fluctuation. Just wondering your thoughts. Can you provide any sensitivity figures, for example, say, 10% change in the U.S. dollar exchange rate, what impact that might have on revenue EBITDA, CapEx, free cash flow anything to provide?

Yeah. We haven't disclosed those numbers in the past. Our general view is that we keep U.S. currency in U.S. dollars, we keep Canadian currency in Canadian dollars certainly operating from an operating perspective and so any foreign exchange movements that we see on the income statement side are generally accounting attributions rather than actual realized gains or losses in that respect.

Yeah. Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Maggie MacDougall with Cormark. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Maggie.

Just wanted to circle back on MMG and maybe dig in a little bit, in terms of exactly sort of what you guys are doing on the sales initiatives front. Is it a retraining process, was there some changes in staff? and then to the extent that you have any view what sort of timeline you may expect to see things perhaps start to work a little bit more in terms of pre-need sales at that particular division?

So, the part of it is I wouldn't necessarily call it a retraining, I would call it a refocusing. Part of it is utilizing marketing tactics that have not been actively utilized for a number of years in that market, including direct to consumer initiative, including more sort of what we would have used in the Canadian market in terms of traditional sort of marketing level initiatives rather than simply individual selling tactics in line with the plan that would focus initially on a number of properties and then would roll out across the portfolio based on the successes and improvements that are made in those markets.

So, we're really talking about specific refocusing of lead generation, the introduction of marketing agents who are ultimately people who share commission with the sales folks who go out and generate leads for the sales people in order for them to go out and close those leads, local newspaper advertising, compensation related items, where we would focus on a selective call to action, discount programs, short-term discount programs, two for one that type of thing. So very sort of tactical initiatives on a property by property basis as we indicated. Every market is slightly different and you might approach an ethnically different market, you would approach them very, very differently. But those are given some examples of the way that we might deal with it.

I think given the rollout, the rollout is initially focused on some of the more significant properties in the Detroit market specifically, so that would – we're aiming to generate the most sort of bang of our return for our investment by addressing some of the most significant properties. So, I would say that we expect that it will take through the full year of 2018 to generate meaningful improvement, but we hope to see modest improvement starting relatively shortly.

The sales cycles is not immediate, as you can imagine. So a number of these initiatives on the pre-need side were rolled out on January 4, 2018, and so it takes time to generate those leads for the sales people who work the leads and for those leads ultimately to convert into sales. So, we're hoping, as I said, to see modest improvement in the Q1 and Q2 and more meaningful traction in the back half of the year and into 2019.

Okay. That's really helpful. Thank you. And then just in terms of the – I'm assuming some of the MMG organic sales decline was as a result of the need for some of these sales tactics you've just discussed. But potentially, also just due to what has been I guess natural lumpiness in that business. And so, I'm curious has that sort of reversed a bit in Q1? Have you seen the ales profile, I suppose, both in the Ontario Funeral Homes and also the MMG market normalized, if you want to call it that, or should we be expecting more volatility actually in the early part of this year?

Our hope is not from more volatility in early sort of the indications would be that sales tactics that we've been deploying and some of the opportunities that we're seeing in the Canadian markets are sort of normalizing. So, we're not expecting, at least based on the information we have at this point, the comparable volatility in at least to this point. Our business has historically been and we expected to continue to be a long-term predictable but potentially short-term lumpy as I mentioned earlier and I think that's what we've seen obviously here.

Okay. Thanks, Andrew. And then just one final question, I'm wondering if you guys are able to give a bit of an idea around expectation for effective tax rate and cash tax rate on a go-forward basis? Just given that your percentage of business in the U.S. is now higher and there's been some changes in the corporate tax rate there, I want to make sure that the model is sort of capturing the correct rate as close as possible anyway?

So, we had some tax-planning initiatives that we had used between the U.S. and Canada that allowed us to have a perfectly legal but lower effective tax rate. With those changes under the Trump tax credits, those loopholes have largely or we believe they're largely going to be closed. So, I'll turn it to Joe, but I would expect our effective in cash tax rate to go up modestly.

Right. We're looking Maggie in planning at tax rates in the low 20% to 21%, overall. As we stand in the U.S., it will likely tick up a little point or two as we get more revenue and more profits out of the U.S. The effective tax rates across the two countries are basically similar now. We have some permanent timing differences in Canada related to the investment income, which makes our tax rate lower than the 26% that is the statutory rate. But when we combine everything and take a look at some of those prominent differences, then we're now into the sort of low 20% to 21% effective tax rate currently.

We do have some tax shelter through deferred tax assets on the balance sheet that help us in terms of cash taxes, but going forward, I would guess, as we grow and our profits are higher and our cash taxes will actually increase as well. Haven't done a full analysis on the cash tax side, but it would be safe to say that we would be paying more taxes going forward, cash taxes.

Okay. Thanks very much guys for your responses. I appreciate your time.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Steve Harris with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just a couple of quick questions here. I think I know the answer for the first one, but if you could just talk a little bit about volume versus price in the year and the revenue mix for Q4, and how that's looking going forward? I'm assuming the lumpiness was overwhelmingly volume related, but if you can just sort of break it down, it would help.

Yeah. It is overwhelmingly volume related. The prices do not tend to fluctuate materially, and as a matter of fact, they can the prices from some of our more rural properties to the more urban properties can vary substantially. So, we don't break down volume numbers specifically, but it would be logical to infer that the lumpiness relates to volume and not pricing.

Okay. Great. And just a question though on a different vein, but if you step back for a minute and you look at what you've accomplished over the last couple of years, three large scale acquisitions. If my math is right 46 cemeteries, and if you look at all of the groups then that means there is four management teams and four sales structures and four IT systems and all or rest of that.

Where do you stand in terms of bringing the platforms together and developing the culture and the management teams that you want to drive the business going forward? And to what extent is that sort of integration process something that gives you pause in continuing to make larger scale acquisitions, or is something that's advanced enough that you think, no, we're in good shape to continue driving forward. Where do you stand in all of that?

I think we would broadly classify the process as being in the early days and being iterative. That, you're quite correct in that we have multiple management teams, multiple operations, leaders. Again, the sort of highly localized nature of the market limits our ability in some respects, particularly on the cemetery side to integrate what we would broadly call sort of front of house sales and sales management and in the field type of leadership. The back office integration really is starting in earnest through the back-end of Q4 and into Q1. And now, we expect will be further enhanced through the CMS opportunity.

In terms of our willingness to make sort of more scale based on larger acquisitions, scale is usually beneficial in our industry, particularly on the cemetery side, and particularly with some of those head office integrations and back office administrative chairman type of functions. And so, I think that our willingness to do that would be selective, but we would be willing to entertain those larger acquisitions in order to continue to do that. I don't think we're far enough along in the integration process to say that we've got it set and we're ready go I don't think that would be a realistic representation of where we are.

Great. And as you bring CMS into the fold, are there some things that when you look at that business that is probably the highest margin business of any of them? Are there things that they do or platforms that they have that you think can apply to the whole group, or is it still too early to think about that?

I would say, it's probably relatively early to be thinking about that. Quite frankly, the CMS business is unique in its geographic focus in the density of the population and the sort of religious and cultural support of those markets being in and around hugely and very densely populated area. So, the sales approaches that are used there are different than many of the sales there are different than many of the sales approaches that are used in other less densely populated more rural markets. So, we'll of course try and adopt the best practices. We've got the teams communicating with each other extensively as you might imagine, but not all of those best practices will be applicable through all markets.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Johann Rodrigues with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hey, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning.

I just wanted a quick clarification first. Early on in the call, I think you said you expect 2018 margins to be between 20% and 22%, low-20s. Sorry, was that with CMS or was that just the organic business, or what you had at year end?

Yeah, that would be including CMS. The CMS business, yes.

Okay. And then on the CMS business, one of the reasons you gave for the acquisition was you thought that you guys could implement a better process that will lead to an increase in pre-need sales, because obviously, there's a lot of inventory there. I guess, I was just wondering what the kind of – what they were doing kind of on an annual basis in terms of pre-need sales. I guess, in terms of numbers of plots, and what you thought on a percentage basis you guys could kind of improve or shift the mix between pre-need and at-need?

Yeah. So, we can't obviously speak to specifics, because we haven't reported their numbers to this point in time. Broadly speaking, their business has been – a significant focus of that business has been bulk sales to various cultural and religious groups. I think some of the opportunity that we saw and continue to see is through the option to purchase the Lafayette property which will provide a significant number of incremental burial spaces, when that is closed that we'll continue to drive some bulk sales opportunities there.

In addition, there is the Princeton Abbey opportunity, which is relatively new to the CMS business, so we're really sort of trying to understand how we can develop some further traction at Princeton Abbey which is predominantly a cremation oriented option. So, I'm not sure if that answers your question, I'm sort of limited in terms of how we can talk about CMS given we haven't reported, but I think much of the organic growth if you want to call it that from here on in coming out of the CMS business will be focused from those bulk sales and continuing growth in the bulk sales and the further development of those two properties in Lafayette and Princeton.

Okay. That helps. Thanks, Andrew. I'll turn it over.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Brian Pow with Acumen Capital Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Brian.

I just wanted to maybe just a little bit of housekeeping on in that, any anticipation on what your CapEx spend is going to be in 2018?

Our CapEx on just sustaining CapEx, Brian, I presume that you're asking?

Yeah.

Yeah. And we try through the budgeting and planning process to keep that no higher than our annual depreciation, and that's running at about CAD 3 million. I would say, if I look at the CapEx plan for 2017 on our business, excluding CMS, it would have been below CAD 3 million.

Okay. Is there any major sort of project thoughts, anymore mausoleums around that you're thinking of?

We're developing some mausoleum product in both the Louisville , Kentucky market and Houston market. They would have different characteristics to what might have been developed previously in the Toronto market. It's a very different market, it tend to be outdoor in nature, lower price points. And then there's onsite funeral opportunities that we're exploring in a couple of our markets as well. The funeral opportunities are relatively early stage, I wouldn't classify them as shovel-ready, but the mausoleum projects are moving forward.

But the capital required for that would not be nearly close to what it is in the Toronto market, for example. We're in the low single CAD 1 million range rather than in the high teens range. But also point out that in most U.S., if not all U.S. jurisdictions, unlikely Canadian market we're able to pre-sell and trust the funds for those mausoleums. So, we're not necessarily – although we potentially could, we're not necessarily funding it with our own balance sheet, the pre-selling process can fund that, rather than using our own capital.

Okay. Great. Thanks. That's good insight. And can you provide an update, at one point, I know with the MMG acquisition, there was some chat of some divesture or some cemeteries in that. Can you sort of speak to where that process is at right now?

That process is engaged and ongoing. And we are in dialogue with various regulatory authorities in Michigan on how to facilitate some of those things. So, we are actively working on some selective divestitures in that market.

Okay. And when you – again, that sort of insight you gave us on where you sort of expect margin to be for 2018. When you look at some of your integration initiatives in that, how long do you like – when we look at sort of – let me say, normalized Q1 margins versus Q4, when do we really sort of start to see the pick-up of that integration?

Our expectation would be in the latter half of the year rather than the earlier half of the year. That would be fair for planning purposes.

Okay. Great. Thanks so much.

Thank you.

There are no further questions in queue at this time. I turn the conference back over to our presenters.

Thank you everybody for joining the call today. We appreciate your ongoing support and interest in Park Lawn, and we look forward to speaking with you all again soon.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.