Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Sanford Lee — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Mariama, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation First Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Chairman and CEO, Andrew Clark. You may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. With me on the call are Joe Leeder, CFO; and Suzanne Cowan, VP, Business Development & Corporate Affairs. Today's call is being recorded, and a replay will be available after the call.

Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward-looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although, we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they're not recognized measures and do not have standardized meanings under IFRS. Please see our public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures, including for reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures.

I'll begin with an overview of our business highlights for the first quarter of 2018. Joe will follow with a more detailed review of our financial results. Our 2018 first quarter results reflect the continued successful execution of our business plan. During the first three months of 2018, we acquired CMS Mid-Atlantic, Inc. and Billingsley Funeral Home. CMS Mid-Atlantic operates, manages and provides financial services for seven cemeteries, six in New Jersey and one in New York. And Billingsley operates a funeral home in Huntsville, Ontario.

In addition to our Q1 acquisitions, we acquired Opatovsky Funeral Home in early Q2 of 2018. Subsequently, we launched and closed a CAD 190 million subscription receipt offering in connection with our acquisition of Signature Funeral and Cemetery Investments LLC which closed on May 7, 2018. The Signature acquisition added 9 cemeteries, 21 funeral homes, including 7 located on cemetery sites, and 5 crematoria in 4 new states Kansas, Missouri, New Mexico and Mississippi, and expanded our operations in Texas.

At the same time that we announced the Signature acquisition, we also announced that we had entered into a purchase agreement to acquire Citadel Management LLC. Citadel currently owns and operates 29 cemeteries and 8 funeral homes including one on site, through North and South Carolina. The Citadel acquisition is expected to close before the end of the third quarter. These acquisitions collectively demonstrate the company's ability to source and acquire larger, more transformative businesses while also continuing to strategically expand our existing operations through selective smaller acquisitions.

In the first quarter of 2018, the company continued to show strong operating results which were in line with management's expectations. The company's revenue increased year-over-year by 44.7% to approximately CAD 27 million in the first quarter of 2018, as compared to approximately CAD 19 billion in the first quarter of 2017. After adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange, revenue growth from the company's comparable businesses was 3.1% in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the first quarter of 2017.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Joe to review our first quarter financial results in more detail.

Thanks, Andrew. And good morning, everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our first quarter financial results in our press release, our MD&A and financial statements which are available on our website, and on SEDAR. As Andrew mentioned, total revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 was approximately CAD 27.2 million, an increase of 44.7% over the same period last year. And after adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange, revenue growth from the company's comparable businesses was 3.1% in Q1, 2018 compared to last year.

The growth in comparable revenue was largely attributable to our cemetery operations, in both Canada and in the U.S. Revenue from comparable funeral home operations was marginally positive year-over-year. Gross profit margin for the period ended March 31, 2018 was 78% compared to 75.8% for the same period in 2017. The inclusion of Saber for a full three months and CMS for one month in our 2018 results was a contributing factor to the overall improvement in our gross margin. However, we also saw overall improvement in gross margins from other comparable cemetery businesses, and from funeral home operations.

Our aggregate operating expenses for 2018 increased to approximately CAD 17.8 million from CAD 12.4 million in 2017, and this increase resulted from the inclusion of Saber, CMS and other funeral home acquisitions.

Looking specifically at our G&A maintenance and selling expenses from comparable business operation, there was no increase year-over-year. Higher selling and advertising expenses relating to increased sales activity were higher, but offset by lower maintenance expenses at our cemetery operations.

Share-based compensation, which represents the non-cash expense associated with our RSU and TSU programs, this increase in 2018 is directly related to the issuance of additional units year-over-year. The increase in interest expense in 2018 relates primarily to expenses associated with our expanded credit facility, including amortizing deferred financing fees incurred to establish the facility and increased standby fees on undrawn amounts.

During the current quarter, we also incurred CAD 1.2 million in acquisition and integration costs compared with CAD 179,000 last year. These expenses are directly related to the increased M&A activity in 2018. And based on recent acquisition announcements, we will continue to see increased acquisition and integration costs moving forward in 2018 as we execute on our acquisition and integration strategy.

Our effective income tax rate in 2018 was 22.8% compared with 9.7% in 2017. We would expect that our effective income tax rate moving forward in 2018 would be in the range of 20% to 23% of our pre-tax income.

So, as a result of the above, the company's net earnings to PLC shareholders for Q1 2018 totaled CAD 1.7 million, compared to CAD 1.3 million for the same period in 2017. Our fully diluted earnings per common share attributable to shareholders of PLC for 2018 was CAD 0.108 compared to 11.7% for 2017.

The weighted average common shares outstanding during the period ended March 31, 2018, increased to approximately CAD 15.3 million compared to approximately CAD 11 million for the same period in 2017. And this increase occurred largely as a result of the company's June 2017 prospectus offering as well as smaller share issuance for the equity incentive plan and our DRIP plan.

We also report two non-IFRS measures in our financial statements and MD&A. The purpose of the non-IFRS measures is to adjust the after tax impact of certain non-operating, non-recurring or non-cash expenses in the current quarter. These include acquisition and integration expenses and share based compensation expenses.

After making adjustments for these items, our adjusted net earnings attributable to PLC shareholders for Q1 2018 increased by 65.5% to CAD 2.8 million from CAD 1.7 million in Q1, 2017, which on a fully diluted per share basis is a 19% increase year-over-year.

Adjusted EBITDA to PLC shareholders for Q1 2018 was CAD 5.8 million compared to CAD 3.3 million in Q1 2017, representing a year-over-year increase of 74.3%. On a fully diluted per share basis, adjusted EBITDA was CAD 0.375 this year compared to CAD 0.299 last year, which represents an increase of 25.4% year-over-year. The double-digit year-over-year growth in the per share adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA reflects the impact of putting the capital we raised last year to work in 2018.

Our adjusted EBITDA profit margin for the current quarter was 21.7%, compared to 18.7% last year. This improvement relates to the acquisition of higher margin businesses, spreading our corporate expenses over a broader earnings base, and general improvement in margins from comparable businesses.

And just a few words now about our balance sheet. We ended the quarter with approximately CAD 61.7 million in debt, compared with CAD 4.4 million in debt at March 31, 2017. This level of debt combined with the excess cash we raised at a recent share offering, our CAD 125 million credit facility provides the company with significant capital to fund acquisition and organic growth opportunities going forward. Cash on hand this year was CAD 6.7 million, compared to CAD 12.7 million last year, and our net working capital was CAD 25.7 million, compared to CAD 25 million last year.

In closing, I would like to mention a recent change in one of our accounting policies. Effective January 1, 2018, we implemented IFRS 15 dealing with revenue recognition on long-term contracts. We elected to use the modified retrospective method of implementing the new standard which records the transitional adjustments through opening retained earnings without a restatement of prior-period operating results. I would point out that our comparative peer group in the U.S. also chose to use this retrospective method of applying the new standard.

For Park Lawn, the major impact of IFRS 15 is to capitalize sales commissions associated with pre-need sales contracts where the associated revenue from these contracts has also been deferred to future reporting periods. The capitalized commissions are then amortized as an expense at the time the contract turns at need and the merchandise and services are delivered and the revenue is recognized. This accounting treatment is intended to better match the commission expense with the revenue recognition.

So, the impact of implementing IFRS 15 in Q1 this year is that we have an increase of approximately CAD 13.3 million to retained earnings, which is comprised of a CAD 17.7 million increase in deferred commission assets offset by a deferred tax liability of approximately CAD 2.6 million. And this is explained further in Note II Sub F in our financial statements.

So, I will turn the call over to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Joe. We're pleased to have delivered another successful quarter and look forward very much to reporting our second quarter results in August. Looking ahead, we remain optimistic about our pipeline of opportunities both organic and acquisitive in nature. We believe we're well-positioned to continue creating value for our shareholders in the remainder of 2018 and beyond.

Joe and I are now ready to open the line for questions. So, operator please go ahead and do so. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Leon Aghazarian with the National Bank Finance. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. I just want to drill down a little bit on your year-over-year growth. I know you mentioned that excluding FX and acquisitions, your organic growth was 3.1%. So, I guess my first question would be what was the FX impact in the quarter? I'm just trying to break down what the FX and acquisition contributions were respectively in the quarter.

Leon, it's Joe. The impact was 2.5% of the organic growth, so 0.5% without adjusting for FX, and then basically 2.5% if you adjust for the FX.

Which would therefore mean that the acquisitions were about what, 44% if I understand correctly?

44% of the total?

No. I meant of the year-over-year growth. I'm just trying to figure out – okay, so it's 0.5% of the FX, fine. Okay.

Okay. Yeah.

Okay. Within the organic growth, I mean can you talk a little bit about, I mean, the geographic split on that? Maybe you know how was Canada versus the U.S. and where was predominantly the organic growth coming from?

So, Canada, it was more – Leon, it would be more call it asset related than it was geographically related. The lot of the organic growth in Canada came from, if not all of the organic growth in Canada, the vast majority of it came from the Park Lawn cemetery assets, the original six assets in the Toronto market. As Joe indicated earlier through his comments, funeral revenues in Canada were by and large flat or marginally up year-over-year, so not a significant organic contribution there. And cemetery assets were the primary driver rather than geographic split per se.

Okay. Aside from the higher margin Saber and now with one month of CMS in your margin profile now, I mean, what were some of the improvements that you did see in legacy business? That's something that you mentioned in your prepared remarks. I'm just curious to see what were some of the improvements that you saw at the legacy business?

We continue to see enhanced cost reduction initiatives from the MMG business in Michigan. We were modestly pleased by the improvements and the execution on some of the new sales initiatives led by the Saber Group on the MMG assets. So, we saw a sort of a general positive improvement out of the MMG business in this quarter versus not only the prior year, but the prior quarter. In the Toronto market, we just had – quite typically, there's solid demand in the first quarter and we had good mausoleum sales from our Westminster property and our Park Lawn property in the first quarter of 2017 in Toronto.

Okay. One follow-on from me before I jump back in the queue. I realize CMS the only closed on March 7, and you had slightly less than a month's worth of contribution there. Can you give us some color on the progress of integration or anything that's actually gone on at the moment there? Thank you.

We're happy with the progress of integration to the extent that there has been any. Given the Signature acquisition, we have not – which we knew was coming, we have not made considerable integration, I beg your pardon, efforts as it relates to CMS. And I think as we have explained in the past on the CMS transaction, those assets on a standalone basis justified the purchase without significant integration exercise. So, we're pleased with how CMS has performed. We've got a great team there and we're looking forward to plugging them into our other business units in the U.S. on the more broader integration exercise.

Thank you. Appreciate the color.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Maggie MacDougall with Cormark. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So, you just commented and did also in the MD&A or the press release that Michigan tracks slightly ahead of expectation and just curious if this is due to better preneed sales, which I think was kind of the focus of the changes made to the marketing sales strategy in January?

Yeah. We had – I think that's fair. There were – the Saber-led initiatives in the Michigan market were focused on only a small number of properties. So, I think their relative impact was significant on those properties, obviously less so on the portfolio as a whole. But, we are seeing sort of more positive revenue trends developing there.

As you may recall, there is some considerable seasonality to the business. The cemetery business in Michigan and Saber for that matter, they would tend to be stronger Q2, Q3 than they would be Q1, Q4. And so I think our pleasant surprise with Michigan was – it had to do with performance relative to the prior quarter, and relative to what we would have expected given the season. We were also – I think the team there was better at containing costs than they had been in prior quarters. So that was the needle mover. It was more on the cost side, but we are seeing some significant headway on the revenue side as well.

Okay, great. And in the past, you've commented on the fact that you have a number of opportunities existing in your portfolio to enhance organic growth going forward. And I'm wondering if you could just update us in terms of what's ongoing now, what your expected capital spend might be or initiatives for this year, and then what kind of projects are currently under consideration, perhaps the 2019 or 2020 even?

It's a good question. We have a number of capital projects under development, including on-site funeral home opportunities in a couple of our markets. We have a number of not necessarily capital items, but inventory related items, particularly in the Saber portfolio for the development of mausoleum projects in several of those markets. We would expect that, particularly as it relates to the on-site funeral operations, that those projects will be capital projects for the latter half of 2018 and through to 2019. We haven't fully spec-ed out the costing on those. So, I would be reluctant to commit to a number, but they are, as you can imagine, significant capital expenditures to develop those on-site funeral homes.

So, I will be able to provide more color in the coming quarter or two as we go through the approvals process in those markets, but those are significant projects for us in addition to the inventory builds that are going on in selected markets within Saber. We're also starting now to look at what other organic opportunities and the timing of those organic opportunities within not only the Signature, but also the Citadel portfolio.

OkayOkay. Thanks, Andrew. And then, just one final question from me and it's a fairly broad question. In a number of industries, there's been a lot of discussion of inflation and labor costs, input costs, and transportation and freight costs, and recognizing that you guys don't have a ton of exposure to that type of inflation. I'm still curious if you've seen anything in your business in this regard that we should keep in mind from a margin perspective or if that's really not so much of a concern for you at this point?

I's something we think about, Maggie, but in the realm of materiality, it's not something that – we monitor it obviously, but it's not something that gives us considerable consternation.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from Stephen Harris with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Just had a – I want to follow up a little more on your integration plans and I think we've talked about this before, but give a sense in terms of timelines. You've got five U.S. businesses now that you plan to bring together and I understand that Mr. Dodds and Mr. Green are going to take a big role in all of that. But, where do you plan to be say by the end of the year? What do you think you can accomplish in terms of common operating practices and common sales practices or that sort of stuff? Is this a one, two, three-year proposition to integrate business? Where you think you're going to be say by the end of this year?

It's probably – well, by the end of this year, I mean, sort of on a 12-month basis, we would expect to have sort of the two-thirds of the integration exercise well underway if not complete. And then we would expect that the remaining integration work would be done over the following 12 to 18 months. So, we're looking at a 24-month to 30-month window when you not just for synergies, but also for all those other sort of common sales practices alignment on best practices so on all over all those businesses. So, obviously, there will be some synergy opportunities in the shorter term and those will play out over 12 to 24 months. But that the integration broadly speaking of those businesses we expect will be 24 to 30 months.

And what are the top priorities there? Where's the easiest low hanging fruit if you like in terms of an integration of the assets?

A lot of it is in sort of supplier level relationships. Obviously, we have some duplicating relationships in a number of different areas not only sort of trade suppliers like monument, granite, bronze businesses, that type of thing. But also healthcare suppliers and the U.S. insurance providers that the integration of insurance policies over a number different businesses. The standardization of payroll practices, the back office and accounting, administration, level functions, consolidating those under a single roof, those would be the priority items in the near-term.

Okay. Great. And I had a – this is sort of a more of a maintenance question but it did stand out to me that your care and maintenance contribution was actually down year-over-year despite the fact that you have Saber in and one month of CMS in there. And you don't have to fund the assets up substantially, but could you give me a little background as to why that expense would decline? And where we could expect to see that going forward as you integrate the other assets? And I know the regulations are different in Canada versus the U.S. and I guess, probably part of it but maybe little more color that would be helpful?

I think that's the significant part of it, Steve, on that relative contribution is those not only are they different, Canada to U.S. they're different state by state and province by province, so our contribution levels now within the portfolio can vary quite a widely from as little as 10% to as much as 40% of the gross revenue contributed to the care and maintenance fund. So really it's a mix issue more than it is anything else that's based on the regulatory requirements in the market. There's nothing more to it than that.

Okay. And why would it be down year-over-year given that the business base is up significantly?

Down in real terms or down in percentage terms?

It is down in dollar terms, I think.

Well, it could be, even in Ontario, Steve, if we have a mix of – a different mix of business from land sales to crib sales the percentage that we would contribute on the land sale is much higher than on a crib sale. So as Andrew said, the product mix state by state adds to it, but even within adds to it, but within a certain market, it can vary based on the product mix as well.

Okay. Okay. That's it from me. Thank you.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Sanford Lee with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking the question. You mentioned that MMG is performing better on the cost side as well as on the sales side. I think in the Q4 2017 if we break out all the numbers, it looks like the revenue was down 17% or so. Can you give us an idea of the revenue decline at MMG for the quarter?

I don't believe we'll break that out typically, but revenue on a currency adjusted basis at MMG year-over-year would have been by and large down single-digit...

Yeah.

...percentage points.

Low-single digits.

Low-single digits.

Great. That sounds like a vast improvement. And then, you are really expanding your margin nicely. It seems the majority of it has come through for the revenue mix profile and now you're starting to see more and more costs synergies [indiscernible] (28:58) as well as the organic savings. Just trying to get a sense of what your new normal base markets are, in the past – sorry, in the past you've guided to below 20% EBITDA margins and given that it's 21%, 22% but you're already hitting that right now. So, are you able to give an updated EBITDA margin guidance?

Sorry. I couldn't hear a bunch of that question. Could you...

I'm looking for an – yeah, just looking for an – that's right. Because you'd said in the past, it's going to be in the low 20% for 2018, but you're already at that, and you haven't even incorporated all the cost synergies that [indiscernible] (29:44)

Yeah, I think given sort of the business mix that we expect going forward, we would be reluctant through the balance of the year to guide much higher than that. I think we're obviously going to strive to improve margins. We think that over the longer term, we can get into the mid-20s. But I wouldn't, given the lumpiness of our business or how it can be quarter-over-quarter, how we have said repeatedly to anyone who will listen that our business is highly predictable but it's not linear, we wouldn't want to make pronouncements on margin over the next quarter or two. We prefer to point to where we think we can get over 18 months to 24 months which would be creeping into sort of more mid-20 type of range.

Great. And I asked that question in the last conference call about whether you'd be willing to set another multi-year EBITDA target? At that time, you did say that you would do so in the not too distant future. [indiscernible] (31:00)

Yeah. We are – given- the recent Signature acquisition and the enhancements to our management team we want those individuals in conjunction with our existing team and our existing businesses to really get into it with us. And so yes, we plan on commenting on that in the not too distant future but we don't think it's prudent to do so you know specifically at this time given the new management team has largely only been in place for six days.

That's fair enough. And lastly then, the [ph] Service Corp (31:42) referenced on its Q1 2018 that it benefited from a very strong flu season. Just wondering from Park Lawn perspective, would you see your top line benefited this quarter as well? Does that get benefit from it?

Not materially, so. Their business would be given that it's more funeral weighted than cemetery weighted, would be more of an at-need business which would benefit more from a robust flu season than Park Lawn's business which would be obviously cemetery and, therefore, more pre-need in nature and less susceptible to benefits or downdrafts from the flu or other things like that.

All right. That's all from me.

Your next question comes from Maggie MacDougall with Cormark. Your line is open.

Hi. Just wanted to see if you could comment on your M&A pipeline, just announced two pretty good sized acquisitions and you've been really [indiscernible] (32:47) over the last 18 months. Wondering what kind of opportunities you may have going forward?

There are a number of opportunities out there, Maggie. I would say that it would be inaccurate to classify the pipeline as robust in the context of past acquisitions. But there are a number of opportunities out there that we're exploring. I would say that our focus in the coming months is on integration. We don't see any candidly any big swings at the moment although we would – we're never afraid to be opportunistic. But, there are a number of things percolating in the pipeline, but I wouldn't classify any of them as immediate or transformative in nature.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Yeah.

There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you very much. We appreciate you joining us all for the call today and we look forward to speaking with you soon and appreciate very much your support of the company over the past year and beyond. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.