Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Clark — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Park Lawn Corp.
James Joseph Leeder — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Park Lawn Corp.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Maggie MacDougall — Analyst, Cormark Securities, Inc.
Stephen Harris — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Brian D. Pow — Analyst, Acumen Capital Finance Partners Ltd.
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Scott Fromson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Raveel Afzaal — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Tiffany and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Park Lawn Corporation Second Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Andrew Clark, Chairman and CEO, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Tiffany. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. With me on the call is Joe Leeder, our CFO. Today's call is being recorded, and a replay will be available after the call.

Please be aware that certain information discussed today is forward-looking in nature. Any such information is subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially. Please see our public filings for more information regarding forward-looking statements.

During the call, we will reference non-IFRS financial measures. Although we believe these measures provide useful supplemental information about our financial performance, they're not recognized measures and do not have standardized meanings under IFRS. Please see our initial public filings for additional information regarding our non-IFRS financial measures, including for reconciliations to the nearest IFRS financial measures.

I'll begin with an overview of our business highlights for the second quarter of 2018. Joe will follow with a more detailed review of our financial results and outlook. After our prepared remarks, we will take your questions.

Our 2018 second quarter results reflected the continued successful execution of our business plan. During the second three months of 2018, we acquired Signature Funeral and Cemetery Investments LLC financed by an approximately CAD 190 million bought-deal offering. We also entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Citadel Management LLC which is expected to close before the end of the third quarter.

The acquisition of Signature expands PLC's operations into four new states, Kansas, Missouri, New Mexico, and Mississippi, and expands its footprint in the Texas market. The Signature acquisition adds 9 cemeteries, 21 funeral homes including 7 located on cemetery sites, and 5 crematoria to PLC's portfolio.

During the quarter, we also acquired Opatovsky Funeral Homes (sic) [Opatovsky Funeral Home] (00:02:38) further expanding the company's presence in the Ontario market. This business is a strategic fit for the existing portfolio of assets in Ontario.

In addition to our Q2 acquisitions, we acquired Hansons Arbor Funeral Chapels and Crematorium in BC early in Q3 of this year, which adds to our cluster of operations in the Okanagan Valley. Subsequently, we amended our existing syndicated financing arrangement led by National Bank, and including the Bank of Montreal and TD Bank. The amendment to the financing arrangement increases PLC's borrowing capacity by CAD 25 million to CAD 150 million.

Overall, our revenue numbers for the quarter – for Q2 were strong and in line with management expectations. We did see some softness with at-need sales, however, and this seems to be consistent across our peer group according to publicly available information. The at-need softness was partially offset by stronger pre-need sales in our U.S. business, particularly CMS Mid-Atlantic and Saber.

Cemetery revenue from U.S. markets also improved resulting in overall growth from comparable properties of 7% in U.S. dollars compared to 2017. The company's revenue increased year-over-year by 100% to CAD 40,349,000 in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to CAD 20,138,000 in the second quarter of 2017. After adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange revenue growth from the company's comparable businesses was 5.2% in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the second quarter of 2017.

As part of the integration efforts already underway, the company is introducing best in class sales initiatives across the organization to improve pre-need sales. We are particularly focused to this point on Midwest Memorial Group in Michigan. The first six months have seen positive results with respect to pre-need sales and we continue to have strong market share in the at-need business in Michigan.

Unfortunately, our cost containment initiatives, which were initially successful in the first 12 months of our ownership of MMG, have stalled. This has impacted our bottom line results in the market. We are in the process of making changes at the senior leadership level at MMG that will take effect in the very near future. We are optimistic these changes will allow us to capitalize on the high-quality portfolio that MMG holds.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Joe to review our Q2 financial results in more detail as well as our outlook. Joe?

Thanks, Andrew, and good morning, everyone. You'll find a detailed breakdown of our second quarter financial results in our financial statements and MD&A, which are available on our website and on SEDAR, and my comments below focus on the three-month results for the second quarter of 2018.

And as Andrew mentioned our total revenue for the three-month period June 30, 2018 was approximately CAD 40 million, an increase of 100% over the same period last year.

After adjusting for the impact of foreign exchange the revenue growth from the company's comparable businesses was 5.2% in Q2 compared to Q2 of 2017. And before adjusting for the currency change the growth was a very healthy 7% year-over-year.

Andrew has given a fair bit of detail on the revenue numbers and so I'll just go straight to the profit margins. Our gross profit margin for the period ended June 30 was 79% compared to 78% for the same period in 2017. The inclusion of Saber and CMS for a full three months and Signature for one month in our 2018 results was a contributing factor to this overall improvement in our gross margin.

Our aggregate operating expenses for 2018 increased to approximately CAD 27.6 million, a CAD 14 million increase from 2017. Again, this increase is because of the inclusion of Saber, Signature and CMS and the other funeral home acquisitions.

Looking specifically at our G&A, maintenance and selling expenses from comparable business operations, there was an increase in operating expenses of approximately CAD 350,000 in the quarter and that increase was largely attributable to higher costs to support our growth initiatives including public company costs such as legal, audit, listing fees, investor relations and so on.

Selling, maintenance, advertising expenses from comparable business units were largely in line with prior periods, although we have mentioned before that these costs can be seasonal in nature and can vary from period-to-period. Our share-based compensation expense represents noncash expense associated with our RSU and DSU programs and this increase in 2018 is directly related to the issuance of additional units year-over-year.

Our interest expense was higher this year by CAD 460,000. The increase in interest expense relates directly to the utilization of our credit facility to fund some of the recent acquisitions, as well as increased amortization of our deferred financing costs, which we incurred to establish the facility. Our bank debt at the end of this quarter was CAD 45 million compared to only CAD 4 million at that point last year.

During the current quarter, we also saw CAD 5.2 million in acquisition and integration costs compared with CAD 941,000 last year. These expenses are directly related to the increased M&A activity in 2018; including as I mentioned Signature, CMS, Citadel, and a number of smaller funeral home acquisitions. I had mentioned in the Q1 call that we would continue to see increased acquisition and integration costs moving forward through 2018 as we executed on our acquisition strategy and that is what happened. As the pace of acquisitions slowed in Q3, we will see a decrease in these expenses in that period.

On the income tax line, we saw a recovery of tax expense relating to our pre-tax loss in the quarter. However, as we've communicated in prior quarters, we would expect that our effective tax rate moving forward in 2018 would be in the range of 20% to 23% of our pre-tax income.

So as a result of the above, the company incurred a net loss attributable to our shareholders of CAD 318,000 for Q2 2018 compared to net earnings of CAD 1.4 million in the same period last year. That represents a diluted loss per common share of CAD 0.02 in 2018 compared to earnings of CAD 0.07 per share last year.

And we also report two non-IFRS measures in our financial statements and MD&A and the purpose of the non-IFRS measures is to adjust for the after-tax impact of certain non-operating or nonrecurring, noncash related expenses. And in the quarter, these included acquisition integration expenses and share-based compensation expenses.

After making adjustments for these amounts, our adjusted net earnings attributable to our PLC shareholders for the second quarter of 2018 was CAD 3.7 million compared to CAD 1.8 million in 2017. That is an increase of 105%. On a per-share basis, 2018 net – adjusted net earnings was CAD 0.18 per share compared to CAD 0.16 last year. That's a 12.5% increase year-over-year.

The other non- IFRS measure is adjusted EBITDA. The adjusted EBITDA attributable to PLC shareholders for the second quarter was CAD 8.3 million compared to CAD 3.7 million last year, a year-over-year increase of 124%. On a per share basis, 2018 adjusted EBITDA was CAD 0.41 per share compared to CAD 0.33 last year and that is a 24% increase year-over-year.

In calculating these per-share amounts, our weighted average common shares outstanding in 2018 increased to 20.3 million compared to 17.9 million in 2017. The increase occurred as a result of the company's prospectus financings in June 2017 and May 2018.

The double-digit year-over-year growth in per-share adjusted earnings and adjusted EBITDA reflects the impact of putting this additional capital we raised last year and in 2018 to work now.

Our adjusted EBITDA profit margin for the current quarter was 21.1% compared to 19.5% last year. And we have seen improvement in the EBITDA profit margins in recent quarters as a result of our – the acquisition of higher-margin businesses spreading our corporate expenses across a broader earnings base and just general improvement in margins from comparable businesses. That is a trend we expect to continue over the coming quarters and years.

Now just a few words about our balance sheet, we ended the current quarter with approximately CAD 45 million in debt compared to CAD 4 million in debt in last year. This level of debt combined with our CAD 150 million credit facility provides the company with significant capital to fund acquisition or organic growth opportunities going forward.

Cash on hand this year was CAD 9 million compared to CAD 12.7 million last year, and our net working capital was approximately CAD 25.7 million this year and that was similar to last year.

In terms of our capital spending programs going forward, we have targeted CAD 25 million in organic growth spending over the next 18 to 24 months and CAD 40 million over the next three to four years. This capital will be deployed on growth initiatives such as cemetery expansion, on-site and stand-alone funeral homes and visitation centers and new mausoleum construction. And we hope to be able to announce the commencement of certain of these projects in the coming months. We expect to keep our maintenance capital expenditures in line with or below our annual depreciation expense.

And in closing, I'd just like to remind you of a recent change in one of our accounting policies. So effective January 1, we implemented IFRS 15 dealing with revenue recognition on long-term contracts. For Park Lawn, the major impact of this IFRS policy change was to capitalize sales commissions associated with pre-need sales contracts where the associated revenue from the contracts has also been deferred to future reporting periods. This is explained in further detail in Note 2-F of our financial statements. The impact of the policy change on our operating results to date has not been significant.

I will now turn the call over to Andrew for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Joe. Along with our Q2 financial release, we have also released a new growth target for the business. Between 2013 and 2018 year-to-date, Park Lawn has experienced robust growth both organically and through acquisition. We believe the deathcare sector continues to exhibit highly attractive growth characteristics.

As part of our growth plan, we have set an aspirational growth target of achieving pro forma adjusted EBITDA of CAD 100 million by the end of 2022. Achieving this long-term target is based on the following key assumptions. One, that acquisitions will contribute approximately CAD 35 million of incremental pro forma adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022. Two, that margin expansion through synergies and operational improvements will continue to contribute approximately CAD 7 million to CAD 8 million of incremental pro forma adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022.

Three, organic growth through price increases, introduction of new products and services, investment in mausoleums, on-site funeral homes and other growth capital projects will contribute approximately CAD 10 million to CAD 12 million of incremental pro forma adjusted EBITDA by the end of 2022.

Four, organic growth capital, as Joe alluded to, of approximately CAD 40 million is deployed between 2019 and 2022. And five, our target leverage ratio remains in the range of approximately 2 times debt to pro forma adjusted EBITDA throughout the period.

Looking ahead, we remain optimistic about our pipeline of opportunities both organic and acquisitive in nature. We believe we are well positioned to continue creating value for shareholders in the rest of – in the remainder of 2018 and beyond. Joe and I are now ready to open the line for questions. So, Tiffany, please go ahead. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Leon Aghazarian with National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. So, first of all, yeah, congratulations on a nice quarter and then thanks for that long-term goal. So one question for me would be just on some of the changes you were mentioning at MMG. Can you speak to us a little bit about what went on there in terms of – what prompted the change and where do you stand there in terms of some of your – some of the business there?

Well, I can't comment specifically on the change right now, Leon, because it's in process or the changes in particular are in process. But principally what prompted the changes were a sort of ongoing sort of cost structuring issues. And I – we can go into an extensive line-by-line conversation but ultimately we have a strong revenue base there.

We've seen some positive momentum on the pre-need sales side, but we still have some structural issues around the cost of the business that we feel that we in the leadership team there needs to do a better job at containing. So, I'd rather leave it at that for this point in time, but it's largely around the cost structure of the business.

Okay. Appreciate that. You did report a pretty nice organic number here of 5.2% despite the fact that there was some at-need softness in Canada. What would you attribute that to and what have you seen there in terms of at-need softness in Canada?

It's just been – we've seen it in a few markets and it's just really as we've described, our business while predictable is not necessarily linear in nature. And so, this is really just a function of the death rate. We don't believe we're losing market share; we believe that it's just been some cyclical softness in the death rate. We have periods where it's higher and periods where it's lower. And certainly all indications would suggest across a number of markets not only in Canada but also in the U.S. that there is some softness now in the death rate and therefore the at-need business is going to feel that.

Is that in particular geography within Canada or just broadly?

No. It's in Canada and the U.S. It's – I would say generally speaking, we've felt it most in our Toronto market, but that's largely because it's the largest base of operations. We've also seen some at-need softness in Michigan which has sort of highlighted some of the cost structure parts of our conversation there, but we saw it in the Dallas market as well. So, our pre-need numbers have been strong and there's no sort of geographic focus that we can pinpoint. They have pockets where it's stronger and pockets where it's weaker and I suppose that's one of the benefits of a diversified business.

Okay. That's great. In your key assumptions for your EBITDA growth target, you did outline CAD 35 million of incremental EBITDA from acquisitions? Do you see this coming from a steady stream of smaller tuck-ins or maybe lumpier in the form of additional large platform ones like we did see with Signature for example.

I would think that our preference – well, first of all, let me say these things are very difficult to control. We, I think have demonstrated that we're not prepared to be opportunistic, if an opportunity of scale comes up. But I think our preference, given other things being equal, would be to have a series of smaller M&A take place over the period rather than more chunky large scale in nature, more through bolt-ons than through big swings into new markets. That would be our preference. But of course, it would be very difficult to predict these things.

Okay. And one final one for me would just be on the assumption for the CAD 40 million in organic growth capital deployed between 2019 and 2022. Can you maybe – can you help us maybe understand like is that going to be for example in the first part of that timeframe and as such, to see the benefits later on or is it going to be more I guess kind of steady throughout the next couple of years? Like, what is the breakdown if you can give that to us for the next few years?

Well, I think we would expect over the next 12 to 18 months that CAD 25 million of that CAD 40 million will be deployed. Over the next 12 to 18 months, the contribution from that capital being deployed will be longer tail as some of it relates to on-site funeral homes, for example. It will take a while for those to get up and running to full capacity. So, I wouldn't expect an immediate pop from that. It will be longer tail in nature. But the capital will be out the door. Our expectation is the majority of it, CAD 25 million of the CAD 40 million, within the next 18 months.

Thank you. Appreciate that. I'll get back in queue.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Maggie McDougall with Cormark. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Maggie.

So I was wondering if you could give us a little bit of insight into the way that you went through compiling your new five-year plan, just with regards to how you look at your opportunity set. I suppose I'm trying to get a sense as to how much of this is, as you said in the press release, aspirational and what portion do you feel very secure about?

Well, obviously the M&A part is the hardest part to put a pin in. We do know that a number of opportunities out there, our pipeline is filling in. There are – to the previous question from Leon, most of those would be sort of bolt-on in nature and I wouldn't want to be predictive around the timing because most of them would relate to individual sellers' sort of personal financial goals as it relates to timing. But I think that the pipeline is filling in largely with smaller bolt-on type of acquisitions.

That said, there are a number of potentially larger ones that are theoretically out there. And we know from our past experience that doing these deals creates more opportunity to do more of these deals. So with our profile in the U.S. now being a bit more prominent and with the expertise that came predominantly through the Signature acquisition with Brad and Jay and their profile in the industry there, we expect that a number of opportunities that we're not currently aware of will continue to fill that pipeline.

So the margin expansion, the organic growth part of it, that's obviously a bit more sort of predictable from our standpoint. So we feel – in terms of constructing those assumptions, the organic and the margin expansion were certainly the more easier ones to construct from a margin – expansion perspective. We're simply trying to bring margins in line with the public company peers in the industry. So that's – and quite frankly, with bringing margins at all of our businesses in line to where most of our businesses are.

Right.

In terms of the organic, obviously, there's a bit of assumption baked into those on a project-by-project basis but we have a – we and our operating units have a significant track record of executing on these projects. And so we feel pretty comfortable there. The M&A is obviously the one that has the most amount of sort of leeway and [ph] that's (00:25:06) depending on timing and multiples and that type of thing.

Sure. Sure. Okay, thanks for that. And then I was hoping, Joe, that you can maybe just walk us all through the adjustments that you guys have to EBITDA and EPS, just to understand them a bit better.

Sure, yeah. Okay. So let me just focus on the current then the three months then in arriving at – you're talking, Maggie, about the adjusted net earnings and adjusted EBITDA...

That's right. Yeah.

...calculation? Yeah. So in the quarter, there's three adjustments and then a tax impact. So acquisition integration costs to CAD 5.2 million. Those have always been presented as an adjustment to get at adjusted EBITDA and adjusted earnings.

The other item – one of the other items is our share-based compensation. So that's the amortization of the cost of our restricted share unit program. So those are expensed over a vesting period, non-cash in nature. And so those expenses are another adjustment.

There's a very small adjustment, which is to the fair value of contingent earn-out payments. And so the requirement is that the earn-out payments be stated at fair value. And as you get closer to the earn-out payment date, there's naturally going to be an adjustment for the present value of that amount and that's what the CAD 37,000 is. We haven't adjusted the principal portion of it, just the present value of it as we move closer to the payout date.

In the back half of the year, we'll be evaluating the likelihood of making those payments and then we'll have either an upward or downward adjustment to that amount as it is by the end of the year. And then the final adjustment, because we're talking about net earnings is to tax effect – those adjustments. Those that are deductible for tax purposes. And in the current quarter, the tax impact of that was CAD 1.4 million and that relates to the deductibility of acquisition and integration costs as the other two items are not a tax deductible amount. So those in the current quarter in terms of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net earnings per share, those are the adjustments and the sort of calculations to arrive at.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And wondering going forward what sort of costs you expect to incur this year and maybe early next year around the integration you've got going on in the U.S.?

I think when we announced the Signature acquisition, we announced at the time we expected about CAD 0.750 million in specific costs related to that acquisition, so.

Okay. That hasn't changed.

That hasn't changed, no.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Harris with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, Steve.

Good morning, Steve.

Hi. So just wanted to ask a couple of questions here and follow up on this integration question. I mean, it strikes me as being critically important that you put the platform together, you have the reporting systems, the sales processes, the operational standards, all of that sort of harmonized across the platform. How long do you think that takes? Where are you in the process? Can you give us a bit of an update over what you see are the easy issues and maybe what you see are the challenges in making all that happen? And when do you expect to get to a point where you can say, the platform's ready, we're ready to go out and make more acquisitions and then integrate them?

So first of all it's a good question. I think you're right, that integration portion of this is critical. I think that there is some portion of this is critical. I think that there is some low hanging fruit on the integration side, particularly around the infrastructure in the various business units and really building the hub of the business in the Houston market like we have done for the Canadian business in Toronto. So I think that is sort of the easier part is constructing the hub, getting the rules defined that are going to sit in Houston versus the rules defined that will sit in the field and you've touched on a lot of those, Steve, around technology and accounting and administrative HR level functions.

And so those are underway I would say, they're comfortably underway. I would say they would be more underway in terms of design and execution. But I think the execution on all of those parts will follow over the next sort of 12 to 18 months and it will be, I think a bit incremental in nature.

I don't think there's going to be big swaps or big swings that come through in terms of those integration elements of it. And particularly those surrounding the integration of the technology platform. For example, we would expect those to be longer tail type of projects, more towards the 18-month end of it than on the shorter end, which clearly we can deal with, rationalization of other costs, direct costs more and more quickly.

That said, the follow-on piece to that is on the acquisition side, certainly because of our current pipeline and our probably bias over the shorter term, again, not wanting to limit our ability to be opportunistic, but our bias over the shorter term towards doing more bolt-on acquisitions to existing markets, those tend to be, A, more easy to integrate; and B, more of the integration takes place at the field level than those at the corporate level. So I don't think it's going to prevent us doing sort of smaller, relatively more sort of bolt-on to existing market acquisitions. That program, well, while we're not sort of aggressively chasing it right now, it should get rolling in a more meaningful way in the back end of 2018 and into the early part of 2019.

Okay. And if you're building a hub in Houston to manage the U.S. business, do you see some of the key people from CMS and Saber relocating down there or how is that going to work?

The hub would be particularly on what I would call back-of-house back office administrative function side. It's critical in our business, as you know, to have, A, business leadership; and B, the outward-facing front-of-house client family-facing functions sales leadership in-field and in-market given that our industry and our business is really comprised of a series of smaller markets.

So we wouldn't anticipate that any of that sort of P&L leadership, if you will, at the business unit level, division level would take place in Houston. That will all be in the field and in market. It would be more sort of administrative back office, IT, HR, finance, that type of thing build that hub in Houston to allow us to continue to operate in what is a more decentralized model than our peers.

Perfect. Thank you. And if I can have one more. Your business has always had some element of seasonality with typically Q3 being a little weaker than the winter months. With all these acquisitions, some of them are geographically in different locations where you traditionally have been. What overall impact should we be thinking of in terms of seasonality of the business going forward?

I wouldn't think of any sort of significant change from a seasonality perspective. I think our peer group, SCI, Carriage and so on, would have similar seasonality level issues to ours. And so, I wouldn't anticipate any materially different seasonality or seasonal adjustments than we have now.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Brian Pow with Acumen. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning, Brian.

I've got a number of questions. First of all just on looking at the capital projects, have you got a return threshold you could share with us, what you're thinking you could get back on the investments?

Our general target on those – the capital projects is at 20% unlevered IRR over – depending on the nature of the project over a five- to eight-year period. That's the internal target, that we will bring light on 20% or greater.

Okay. And then just sort of as an update again, M&A multiples, sort of what you're seeing there on some of these tuck-ins and maybe what you're prepared to go to on some larger ones now?

I'll – we haven't seen any material uptick in multiples on the tuck-ins. There is – if one were to look through the history of M&A in this industry, there is a high correlation between the size of EBITDA acquired and the multiple paid. So I would say that we're still expecting to see multiples in the Canadian context within the previously commented on range of four to six times for funeral home acquisitions. It might be sort of five to eight in the U.S. Again, those are sort of general parameters rather than specific ones.

And as I think we've discussed before this cemetery multiples can be not as straightforward as a simple EBITDA multiple. So you end up coming at it through a whole different ways of looking at value, whether it's through a DCF type of analysis and IRR type of analysis or as we've talked about a multiple EBITDA cash flow multiple. So they can vary – their range on strict cemetery assets can vary more widely than on funeral home assets. But we haven't seen any sort of material shift in multiples in any of the things that we've been looking at over the last little while.

I think on the second point, I'd be very reluctant to say sort of what we would go to. I think our bias towards tuck-ins would suggest that we'd rather continue to stay in the lower end of the multiple range if that's not too much of a cop-out to your question.

No, no, that's fine. That's good insight. And then historically your preference on acquisitions to some extent has been cemeteries, is it fair to say that when you look at your acquisition goals that's part of number or what do you think the mix would look like in terms of what you might acquire?

Again, we're looking to acquire great assets at fair prices and I would think given some of the – what we have historically had a bias towards cemeteries. I think that we would – we are modestly more open minded on that now given some of the bench strength of the management team in the U.S. And so, I would think it would be more balanced in the mix of cemeteries and funeral homes going forward, provided that again there's a highly defensible sort of stable longer term business plan supporting the funeral homes, also the cemeteries. But ultimately, if we can acquire high quality assets at fair prices in markets that we deem attractive, I would expect to see the balance sort of be equal out more so.

Okay. Thank you. And then just trying to understand a bit more about this sort of at-need softness that you're seeing, when you look at the sort of the range of services you offer, cremation, burials, funerals, all that kind of stuff, has it sort of equally impacted all those services or how should we think of the at-need weakness that you're talking to?

Yeah. I think it's, I think it's a good question. I think because we've seen at-need softness – it's more market-specific rather than it is product specific. And one way that we look at it is it's not just sort of at-need in terms of walking in the door, if you will, it's the conversion of those pre-need contracts to at-need contracts. So people have already made a commitment and made a decision to go in one direction. And those pre-needs to at-needs just aren't converting. So that is – that's what makes the whole situation from our standpoint less worrisome than a lack of sort of simple walk-ins which might signal as I think you're trying to get at a sort of paradigm shift more in a certain market towards cremation or loss of market share.

But when we look at it, yes, those walk-ins are down, but what is more striking about it from our perspective is that the pre-need to at-need conversion is also down. And so that doesn't suggest anything other than a timing issue quite frankly.

Okay. No, that's just great insight. And then finally you mentioned just the – just in a statement said there was an impact to the bottom line from MMG. Can you quantify how much of an impact that might have had in Q2 and in your numbers?

We don't break that out specifically but I'm looking at Joe here.

Yeah. Just in the quarter – or is the question for the year-to-date, Brian, or in the quarter?

Yeah, I'm just – I mean, again, just trying to understand, it's something you've been working on or just trying to get a sense of, if that hadn't happened, potentially what the number might have looked in the quarter.

I would say in terms of Canadian dollars, Brian, we probably could have had another CAD 400,000 to CAD 500,000 if we had...

Okay.

If the business had performed the way we had hoped when we – like six months ago.

Okay. I mean, I'm sorry and that's a quarterly number or a six month number? Excuse me.

Well, it's just – it was in that quarter but funnily enough the number for the year is kind of similar as well.

Okay.

Yeah.

All right. Thanks. Appreciate it.

Yeah.

Your next question comes from the line of Johann Rodrigues with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hey, guys.

Hey, Johann, how are you?

Good. First off, just wanted to get your pulse on the acquisition market and kind of how much you're seeing out there, maybe even the number of portfolios and the number of kind of bolt-ons come across your desk at any given point in time?

Yeah, rather than talk about specific numbers, I would say that now more so than ever there is – we're passing on more than we would actually look at. I think our – excuse me, there are a number of opportunities that come up that either – that are much smaller in nature, but would represent sort of relatively small assets in markets that we're not in, so we can't get sort of the operating leverage out of them that we might under a bolt-on and one of the benefits of scale obviously is that we have more markets to do bolt-ons with.

So but in terms of a sheer number, if this was just a growth for the sake of growth opportunity then the numbers would be very, very large in terms of the deal flow. But we're trying to be quite selective in terms of the ones that we feel make the most sense. So to answer the – what I suspect is the bigger question is there is no shortage of opportunities that are out there. It's just we're trying to be selective about them when they pop up.

Okay. Okay. Thanks, helpful. In the part about your target for 2020 some of the organic growth was based on mausoleums. So I was just wondering where you see those kind of being?

In it, so like geographically?

Yeah, where like – where's the next kind of venues for I guess enhancements on excess land?

So we're underway on mausoleum work in the Houston market and in the Louisville market. We are in the process of starting to think we're about halfway through a typical sales cycle of the mausoleum in the Toronto market. So that's about the time maybe a year or so now that we're from now that we'll be in full planning for the next large scale mausoleum project in the Toronto market. So, those would be the ones that we're thinking of, in principle.

A lot of the U.S. opportunities from a mausoleum perspective, we would look at those because we're able to pre-sell in the U.S. where we're not able – or in many markets in the U.S. where we're not able to in Canada. And so we're able to take customer deposits and ultimately use the customer funds for the build-out. We wouldn't necessarily look at those as uses of our own capital but there are a number of those opportunities out there as well.

Okay, that's very helpful commentary. And then, last one, since I suspect everybody on this call either has done or is about to a bunch of math for the next five years, I was wondering if Joe could maybe start us off with what the pro forma EBITDA run rate is with a full-year Citadel and then – sorry, with Citadel and the full-year Signature?

For – so pro forma, yes.

Yeah. [indiscernible] (00:45:29)

Pro forma run rate.

So sort of looking out to 2019 and that number is, without being very specific on it is in the sort of high CAD 40 million range, Canadian dollar-adjusted EBITDA.

Got you. Thanks very much, guys. [ph]

Yeah. (00:45:48) [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from line of Scott Fromson with CIBC. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen. Most of my questions have been asked, so I'll ask a very basic one. Are you seeing any change in trends that challenge the traditional death care practices and do you have any new initiatives in process or plans?

Are you thinking more – are you thinking cremation rates, Scott? Well, first of all, good morning. Are you thinking more cremation rate or are you thinking is that more sort of general in terms of moving towards celebrations of life and that type of thing? Are you...

Yeah, exactly, celebrations of life, green funerals, discount funerals, etcetera.

The discount segment or the sort of lower-cost segment if you will in certain markets, higher cremation markets has been growing quite quickly. The memorial service, post cremation memorial service, is also gaining in popularity versus the traditional funeral. The benefit I suppose in some respects of our industry is that none of these move on sort of hockey stick level growth trajectories and you're able to see things, these trends are sort of known and established. It's really just a question of which markets are either at the most risk, or there's the most opportunity and sometimes that's the same market to be impacted by these trends.

But to answer the question simply, there's not a whole lot of – there's been nothing new, if you will, that we've seen, just more sort of acceleration in relatively modest ways and in certain markets of developments that were already taking place that we've just – we've already highlighted.

That's great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Raveel Afzaal with Canaccord. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Thank you for hosting the call. Just a few housekeeping questions. Joe, when you mentioned that the impact from weakness in the cemetery business at-need business was close to CAD 400,000 or CAD 500,000, you were speaking about revenues or were you speaking about on the EBITDA number?

Yeah, that would be on the EBITDA, the closer to the Canadian CAD 400,000 number, but EBITDA number, adjusted EBITDA number.

Perfect. Thank you. And then...

That's just in Michigan...

Yeah.

...right, Raveel?

Yeah.

I was asking overall for the business. I was asking on a consolidated basis for Q2 2018, the impact of at-need weakness.

Well, so, yeah. Oh.

Yeah. That's a different question. I had a different question. Yeah.

Yeah. That's a tough thing to quantify, Raveel. That's the impact of the at-need, and I don't have that particular number. [indiscernible] (00:49:00)

No problem. But [indiscernible] (00:49:02) is very helpful.

Yeah. It impacts the profit margin, the EBITDA profit margins, and so on.

Got it. Another housekeeping question. How should we think about gross margins now? In Q2 2018, you did see some [ph] higher portion (00:49:17) coming from higher-margin funeral business but then you also have these high-margin acquisitions that you guys have completed. So, should we think about the 79% that you have right now as the run rate going forward or should we – if you can just speak to that.

Yeah, I would say that that number – we'd be happy with that number, Raveel, as our run rate gross margin number. We've said before that we see improvement in the EBITDA profit margins. They're currently in the low-20s and we – over the next few years, we would like to move that higher by 400 basis points or so on. And so those come out of operating efficiencies and synergies, that type of thing, not at the gross margin level.

Great. Thank you. And then how much integration costs are you guys [ph] casting in (00:50:13) for Q3 2018? I know it's going to be directionally down but if you could quantify that for us.

In terms of integration costs, we would – we don't necessarily – we think of them more in sort of a 12- to 18-month sort of window. We would – the timing can be challenging to predict depending on when the build-out of certain infrastructure projects, IT, that type of thing, when severance costs are paid and so on. So, the timing can be difficult to predict, Raveel, quite frankly but we're looking at sort of CAD 0.75 million over the next 12 months. But I wouldn't want to put a pin in a specific quarter.

That's very helpful. Thank you. And finally, your revenue growth very impressive, 5.2% organically, is there a way to speak about that organic growth also on an adjusted EBITDA basis, or there's too much noise to get to that number?

It can be challenging to get to that number given we have to make a series of assumptions around the overhead costs related to new acquisitions and that type of thing. So it's a harder number to – not only to get to, but it's a harder number for us to control, I would say, from organic growth on an adjusted EBITDA basis. It's harder for us to get to on a quarter-by-quarter basis.

I understand.

Would that be a fair...

Yeah. And I just go back to the longer term sort of target of mid-20s.

Yeah.

We're 21 now and want to move that up to the mid-20s as our overall target.

Perfect. Thank you so much for taking my questions.

Okay. Thank you.

There are no further questions in queue at this time. I will now turn the conference back over to our presenters.

Thank you, Tiffany, very much. And thank you everyone for joining us on the call today. We appreciate your support and we look forward very much to speaking with you all again soon. Thanks.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.