corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the PCTEL Fourth


Quarter 2009 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


open up the call for questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Marketing and Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, March 4, 2010, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for


the fourth quarter of 2009. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO, and John


Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products, and product


development and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor. Actual results may differ


materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to


successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies, and obtain


protection for the related IP. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the


company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are


made only as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent


events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin (Marty) H. Singer, Ph.D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon to everybody. For those of you who have not had a chance


to read our press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter on a


continuing operations basis. First, we achieved revenue of $14.8 million; our non-GAAP gross


profit margin was 48%; our non-GAAP operating margin was 4%; and our non-GAAP net income


was $664,000 or $0.04 per diluted share.


Cash and investments were $75.6 million after our acquisition of Ascom’s scanning receiver


business and the purchase of intellectual property and distribution rights from Wider Networks and


the repurchase of PCTEL stock. This does not reflect the acquisition costs related to Sparco, as


that transaction occurred just in this quarter.


With that summary overview, I’d like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss


our financial performance in far greater detail. Later, I will comment on our progress over the past


quarter and what we see in the future. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty, and good afternoon or evening to everyone. Our investors will note that the


company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes


that the presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income excluding restructuring charges


and non-cash based expense, including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or


losses on the sale of product lines and related notes receivable, and non-cash based income tax


expense, provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and


reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under


Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor


Relations. My discussions of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


As a reminder, the company sold its Mobility Solutions Software Group or MSG to Smith Micro in


January ‘08. The company’s financial statements have been revised to reflect MSG as a


discontinued operation. My discussion of financial results will address continuing operations.


Let’s start with revenue. Fourth quarter 2009 revenue from continuing ops was 14.8 million. This


compares to 18.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, a decrease of 19%, but importantly an


increase from the 13.7 million in revenue reported in the third quarter of 2009. For both scanning


receiver and antenna products revenue was lower on a year-over-year basis but higher


sequentially.


We believe that reduced scanning receiver revenue on a year-over-year basis reflected several


factors. As carriers prepare for the transition from EVDO to LTE, network engineers are protecting


their reduced capital budgets and waiting for new technology rollouts before consuming their


budgets. And two, while test tools enable network engineers to realize greater capacity from


existing infrastructure, capital budgets are lower worldwide. Antenna revenue declined on a year-


over-year basis in both the OEM and distribution channels reflecting particular softness in public


safety, land mobile radio systems, continued delays in mobile WiMAX rollout and defense-related


antenna sales.


Now, let’s turn to gross margin. Non-GAAP gross profit margin from continuing ops for the fourth


quarter was 48% compared to 47% in both the third quarter 2009 and the fourth quarter 2008. The


higher gross profit margin reflects a favorable product mix shift from the prior quarters and


improved antenna gross margins.


Now let’s turn to operating expenses. They were at 6.4 million in the quarter. Reduction of SG&A


expenses resulted in an overall decline in operating expenses by $200,000 as compared to the


fourth quarter 2008. Our R&D expense was about 100,000 higher. We continue to invest in our


future through R&D spending even as we align our cost structure with current revenue levels. The


reduction in SG&A was achieved through the closure of several unproductive sales offices, the


restructuring of our antenna manufacturers’ representative sales channel, and corporate cost


efficiency.


The Conexant royalty agreement was fully paid up in the second quarter 2009 and is therefore zero


this quarter. It was $200,000 in the fourth quarter 2008. Non-GAAP operating income from


continuing ops in the fourth quarter was 629,000 or 4% of revenue compared to 2.1 million or 12%


of revenue in the same period in 2008. The results reflect lower gross profit dollars on lower


revenue partially offset by lower operating costs.


Other income was 181,000 versus a net loss of 1.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The fourth


quarter 2008 results included a realized mark-to-market loss of 1.7 million on our Columbia Fund


investment. The liquidation of our investment in Bank of America’s Columbia Fund was completed


during the fourth quarter this year, and we have no further exposure related to that investment.


The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%. Non-GAAP net income from continuing


ops in the fourth quarter 2009 was 662,000 or $0.04 per diluted share, compared to non-GAAP net