corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome everyone to today’s PCTEL Second


Quarter Earnings Call. At this time all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After our speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions]


And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that I introduce the host of today’s call, Mr.


Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, July 23, 2009 for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the


second quarter of 2009. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and John


Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and product


development and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new


technologies and obtain protection for the related IP.


Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is


contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today. And we


disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin (Marty) H. Singer, Ph. D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon. For those of you who have not had a chance to read our


press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter on a continuing


operations basis.


We achieved revenue of $13.4 million. Our non-GAAP gross profit margin was 46%. Our non-


GAAP operating margin was 2%. Non-GAAP net income was 414,000 or $0.02 per diluted share.


And cash and investments were $79 million.


Economic conditions remain challenging worldwide. But we are pleased that our early actions and


our continued attention to cost have enabled us to remain profitable. In this process, we have


lowered our non-GAAP breakeven point to $13 million for the quarter.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss our financial


performance in some detail. Later I will comment on our progress over the past quarter and what


we see in the future. John?
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty, and good afternoon or evening to everyone. Our investors will note that the


company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes


that presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income, excluding restructuring charges,


and non-cash based expense including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization


and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or


losses on the sale of product lines and related note receivable, and non-cash based income tax


expense, provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation


to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with


the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My


discussion of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


Also as a reminder, the company sold its Mobility Solutions software group or MSG to Smith Micro


in January 2008. The company’s financial statements have been revised to reflect MSG as a


discontinued operation. My discussion of financial results will address continuing operations.


So let’s start with revenue. Second quarter 2009 revenue from continuing operations was 13.4


million compared to 20.3 million in the second quarter 2008, a decrease of 34%. Revenue was


lower for both scanning receiver and antenna products.


The reduced scanning receiver revenue reflected several factors. As carriers prepare for the


transition from EVDO to LTE, network engineers are protecting their reduced capital budgets and


waiting for new technology rollout before consuming their budgets.


While test tools enable network engineers to realize greater capacity for existing infrastructure,


capital budgets are lower worldwide. And the combination of Ascom and TEMS created short-term


confusion in the marketplace that impacted test equipment purchases.


Antenna revenue declined in both the OEM and distribution channels reflecting particular softness


in Land Mobile Radio systems, continued delays in mobile WiMAX rollout and defense related


antenna sales.


Now let’s turn to gross profit margin. Non-GAAP gross profit margin from continuing operations for


the second quarter was 46% compared to 48% in the same period last year. The lower gross profit


margin reflects the cost of lower overall volume over fixed costs.


Now let’s turn to operating expenses. Our non-GAAP operating expenses, which were six million in


the quarter. Reduction of SG&A expenses resulted in an overall decline in operating expenses of


1.2 million as compared to the second quarter last year.


Our R&D expense was about the same. We are not short-changing our investment in the future as


we align our cost structure with current revenue levels. The reduction in SG&A was achieved


through the closure of several unproductive sales offices, restructuring our antenna manufacturer’s


representative channel, and corporate cost efficiencies.


The Conexant royalty of $200,000 was unchanged from last year. The Conexant royalty agreement


is now fully paid up and will not generate any income going forward.


Non-GAAP operating income from continuing ops in the second quarter was $300,000 or 2% of


revenue compared to 2.9 million or 14% of revenue in the same period last year. The results reflect


lower gross profit dollars on lower revenue partially offset by lower operating costs.