Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John W. Schoen — Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, PCTEL, Inc.
Martin H. Singer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PCTEL, Inc.
Matt S. Robison — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will open up the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now turn the call over to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you for joining us today, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the fourth quarter 2013. On today's call, will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and I'm, John Schoen, the Chief Financial Officer. First, let me read the Safe Harbor statement before we begin.

Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and features, product development, acquisition efforts and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related intellectual property.

Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.

Thanks, John. And good morning to all of you. Let me recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter.

We've achieved revenue of $26 million, unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2012. Gross profit margin was 42%. Operating margin from continuing operations was 10%. Net income was $2.1 million or $0.12 per diluted share, cash and investments were $57.9 million, an increase of $3 million from the previous quarter.

Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to John Schoen, who'll discuss our financial performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on some of our business development, engineering and marketing efforts over the past quarter as well as some of our current activities. John?

Thank you, Marty. Now, our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income, excluding expenses for restructuring, gain or loss on sale of assets or legal settlements, stock-based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill and non-cash related income tax expense, provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors.

The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company's core results and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com, under Investor Relations. My discussions of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.

So, let's turn to revenue. Revenues were $26 million in the quarter and $104.3 million for the year. The quarterly revenue is unchanged from the same period last year and the annual revenue grew 17%. Approximately 7% of the annual growth was contributed by the acquisition of site solutions products in July 2012, with the remaining 10% contributed by products and services we had for a full year in 2012. I will speak to the changes by reporting segment.

RF Solutions' revenues were $8.7 million in the quarter, and $30.3 million for the year, representing period-over-period growth of 44% in the quarter and 41% for the year. Revenue was up significantly in both scanning receiver products and network engineering services, with the engineering services revenue more than double in the quarter and year compared to 2012. The increase in scanning revenue is attributed to carrier spending increasing from a low point in 2012. The network engineering services revenue growth is attributed to the rapid growth of in-building wireless network expansion.

Connected Solutions' revenue were $17.3 million in the quarter, and $74.2 million for the year, representing period-over-period comparisons of a 13% decline in the quarter and 10% growth for the year. A focused effort to eliminate both unprofitable drop-ship business acquired in 2012 and low margin customers combined with delays in Positive Train Control deployments for transit customers explains all of the fourth quarter decline. The Connected Solutions annual increase of 10% over 2012 is a result of the acquisition of site solution products in July 2012.

Now, let's turn to gross profit. Gross profit margin as a percent of sales was 42% in the quarter and 41% for the year, representing a 3% of sales improvement in the quarter and remained unchanged for the year. The increase for the quarter is attributed to the increased contribution of our relatively higher margin RF Solutions segment revenue as a percent of total revenue and gross margin improvement in our acquired site solutions business.

RF Solutions' gross profit as a percent of sales was 64% in the quarter and for the year, represent a period-over-period decline of 5% of sales in the quarter and 6% for the year. The decrease in the quarter and the year are attributed to the increased contribution of our network engineering services revenue with its lower gross profit margin relative to scanners.

As previously discussed, revenue in scanners and network engineering services were both up from last year, but network engineering services revenue was more than double 2012 levels in the quarter and the year.

Connected Solutions' gross profit, as a percent of sales, was 31% in the quarter and for the year, representing period-over-period improvement of 1% of sales in the quarter and was unchanged for the year. The effect of having a full year of acquired site solutions' revenue with its lower margins, relative to antennas, was offset by eliminating unprofitable site solution business and customers. Consolidating the site solutions factory into our Bloomingdale facility, and supply chain improvements.

Now, let's turn to operating expenses. Operating expenses were $8.4 million in the quarter and $33.1 million for the year, representing period-over-period comparisons of a $100,000 increase in the quarter and $4.1 million increase for the year. The largest components of the annual operating increase were $2 million for the company's accrual of its annual short-term incentive plan that paid out zero in 2012, $1.2 million invested in scanning receiver R&D, and $400,000 related to the site solution acquisition being included in the company's results for a full year in 2013.

Non-GAAP operating margin, as a percent of sales, were 10% in the quarter and 9% for the year. An improvement, as a percent of sales, of 3% in the quarter, and 1% for the year. The increased revenue and results – and resulting higher gross profit in both the quarter and the year, more than offset any changes in operating costs. Non-GAAP other income was $14,000 in the current quarter as the amounts are largely interest on our investments, the number will continue to be small in the current interest rate environment. The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter and the year was 18% unchanged from 2012. Non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.12 in the quarter and $0.42 for the year, resulting in period over period increases of $0.04 in the quarter and $0.08 for the year.

Now, let us turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the fourth quarter at approximately $57.9 million, about $3 million higher than the previous quarter. In the quarter, the company generated approximately $4.2 million of cash flow from operations, spent a $1 million in capital expenditures yielding free cash flow, that is cash flow from operations plus capital spending as a percent of revenue of 12.3% in the quarter. Depreciation in the quarter was $665,000. For the year, the company generated free cash flow of approximately $8.4 million or 8.1% of revenue. Of that free cash flow, the company returned $2.6 million to shareholders in the form of regular dividends and $400,000 in stock buybacks or in aggregate about 35% of the free cash flow generated.

Now, I would like to discuss guidance for the first quarter 2014. We anticipate first quarter revenue to be in a range of $24.5 million to $25 million, which is slightly lower than the same period last year. Within the total revenue comparison, we expect about a 30% increase in RF Solutions' revenue and a 10% decline in Connected Solutions segment revenue. We believe that the Connected Solutions decline a cyclical, and we do reaffirm total company revenue guidance for the year. Gross profit margin for the quarter is expected to be about 40% and operating costs are expected to be approximately $8.4 million.

The non-GAAP effective income tax rate is expected to remain unchanged going forward at 18%. The fully diluted share count in the first quarter is expected to be about 18.7 million shares.

That concludes the financial review. I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for his summary comments.

Thanks, John. And after our comments, we'll be happy to answer any questions about the changes in revenue forecast for Connected Solutions, and give you a little bit more color on that particularly how we are reengineering the site solutions business that we acquired a year-and-a-half ago.

For us the best way to update our shareholders is to review our activities at three recent industry events, the Mobile World Congress and HIMSS, the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society conference and the In-Building Wireless Summit sponsored by PCTEL.

Let me begin with the brief report on my recent trip to Barcelona for the Mobile World Congress. As most of you know, the Mobile World Congress has become the most important annual cellular infrastructure event and that crucial for our Connected Solutions business. It is an important event for the exposure of our RF Solutions products and engineering services.

At the MWC, we unveiled two new and breakthrough products. We displayed our new in-building scanning receiver tool, the IBflex, that features compatibility with tablet user interfaces has hot swappable batteries and modular feature sets. The product supports all global cellular standards, wireless frequencies and MIMO. Additionally, it enables the testing of Wi-Fi networks that are often used in conjunction with licensed frequency. The IBflex can be upgraded remotely by an Internet connection, has significant on-board storage, Bluetooth connectivity and an outdoor mode with enhanced processing power and speed for outdoor data collection.

We displayed the flex at the Ascom booth and conducted live tests in the MWC Convention Center and demonstrated its flexibility and user friendly interface. The product was a huge hit. We expect that the IBflex will complement our strong efforts in developing our in-building product and engineering services business. We also note that this product accounted for the increase in 2013 RF Solutions development spending over 2012 as well as a sequential increase in development spending from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2013.

While this dampened earnings and I realized that some of the headlines are that we missed our non-GAAP EPS by a $0.01, dampening earnings in the fourth quarter, do we consider this is a great investment that will benefit shareholders as PCTEL moves forward with its in-building initiatives, this will be a great investment over the long-term. We also introduced SeeWave, SeeWave is an interference detection and locating system.

As many of you know, interference particularly in LTE networks, impairs data capacity and throughput. SeeWave features a custom antenna from our Connected Solutions group, which by the way was one of the first real synergistic development activities between our two divisions. It also features a sophisticated algorithmic software tool and an intuitive tablet-based user interface.

SeeWave will allow customers, particularly cellular carrier engineers and engineering firms, to quickly and accurately detect and locate interference sources without suspending service, deploying engineers to multiple sites or conducting repetitive drive tests. Whenever we demonstrated SeeWave at MWC, we drew a big crowd. It's a product where you point an interesting looking antenna; has a trigger that can take instantaneous measurements, store them on a scanning receiver, and then display them on a tablet. SeeWave will work with installed base of SeeHawk -- SeeGull's scanning receivers and SeeHawk visualization tools, and it will work with any customer that is looking for the potential of displacing capital investment in this equipment within one month of ownership.

At HIMSS, our Connected Solutions segment introduced both portable LTE antennas and a low-profile Wi-Fi antenna for in-building applications. As we continue to stress at investment conferences and in our marketing communications, PCTEL remains focused on the in-building wireless explosion. These two new products, SeeWave and IBflex, contributed to a higher than anticipated development engineering expense, but they're worthwhile investments in our future as I've stated previously3.

PCTEL sponsored an industry event of its own, with contributions from both RFS and Tessco with whom we enjoy strong relationship. The event, the In-Building Wireless Summit, brought together carriers, power and site management companies, venue owners, real estate management companies, property managers and engineering procurement, and contract management companies or the so-called EPCMs. The summit focused on the economics and dynamics of owning the problem of in-building wireless coverage, the competing solutions, and the drivers for change and improvements. The summit was well attended and the panel discussion was moderated by industry experts Matt Robison and Roger Crockett formerly of Business Week. The pressure to improve wireless coverage and capacity using cellular, Wi-Fi and engineering services became even clear and confirmed our investment in our rapidly growing engineering services, in-building tools and in-building antenna solutions and kits.

Let me turn now to significant successes in our markets. Our Connected Solutions group saw strong fourth quarter orders for our new multiband GNSS antenna from applications in Russia. Our GNSS product was approved for general release in the fourth quarter and shipments have just begun. After a year of business development activities, we also began shipments for custom Wi-Fi antenna to upgrade all access points in a major urban public school system. This commenced a five-year project that will serve as a reference for similar opportunities throughout the U.S. We began shipments of a high power ruggedized antenna for an outdoor Wi-Fi access point to one of the top wireless infrastructure providers in the U.S., and we received an order from a major defense systems integrator for one of our mobile tower product lines. The towers will be delivered during Q1 and Q2 and will be deployed as part of FEMA's emergency response protocol.

Over the past six months, we've established a second OEM mobile tower provider. The qualification process involved a customer tour in which the manufacturer received feedback on quality and performance issues. This new line, the PCTEL mobile tower product line, complements our existing MAG mobile tower product line. We expect strong sales from the new product line in 2014. Initial orders for products have been received and delivery started in December. We will continue to offer the existing MAG product line and will continue to be an important product for many of our customers.

Our Kitting business which was the primary asset that we acquired in July 2012 has expanded. Although sales were not strong in 2013 and especially in the fourth quarter, we developed business opportunities with a major cellular carrier related to LTE site deployment and site expansion for AWS spectrum. There's a potential opportunity in small cell expansion and more broadly as Tier 1 players rush to deploy 4G technology on a number of platforms to provide capacity to address the growth of data consumptive devices.

The opportunities go beyond cellular and the carriers. On the rail side, we're qualifying antenna and cabling systems for new locomotives being built to be compatible with the mandated Positive Train Control standards. This is in addition to the existing wayside deployments that we continue to support.

Our solutions delivered engineering services to over a dozen malls for Black Friday, six hotels for the Super Bowl, a major convention center and two prominent motor speedways, all in the fourth quarter. Revenues have increased by five times to six times since our first quarter of operation and we anticipated 50% increase in engineering services billings this year. Our scanning receiver sales benefited from very strong penetration into Tier 1 North American cellular operators in the fourth quarter, strong global support of our leading OEM reseller, Ascom, and sales into several new regions within China for the initial stages of the TD-LTE deployment. Our EMEA team continues to find new opportunities in Russia including the Sochi Olympics and PCTEL is now the dominant supplier of scanning receivers used for test and measurement of wireless networks in Russia.

In addition to all of these organic growth activities, PCTEL continues to explore opportunities to acquire productive accretive assets that are consistent with our business plan and that would represent a profitable and strategically sound use of our cash. We will update investors as events unfold.

With that, we've concluded our prepared remarks and have set aside 30 minutes for your questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Your first response is from Matt Robison [Wunderlich].

Hey, Matt.

Hi, good morning. Congratulations on the cash flow, John. What should we expect for cash flow this quarter?

Well, if you go back and look at our history, we typically are negative cash in the first quarter, breakeven in the second quarter and then we really hit it solid in the back half. I would say, we'll probably come out $3 million in the quarter, just because we have to pay all the annual accruals and that's consistent with what we did last year. And then, breakeven to $0.5 million, the quarter after that up and then we'll generate, I would expect, the cash flow as a percent of revenue in the same range as we did this year.

Later recall me or let us know what the depreciation is, was for the quarter.

Yes. It was $665 million.

Okay. Thanks. So third quarter of sequential decline for Connected Solutions, you explained part of that. So this quarter, how many more quarters of sequential declines do you expect, Marty?

Yeah. I think we're going to see full recovery by the third quarter and partial recovery by the second quarter. Here is the deal. In the fourth quarter, over 200% of the shortfall was in the legacy TelWorx assets. You'll recall that after we bought them, we did have a couple of strong quarters, but it was filled with some really crappy drop-ship business and some kitting business that never materialized and we also fired some customers as we made the transition from Lexington to Bloomingdale. We now have established the platform. If you were to come here Matt, you'd see now that we have completely transferred everything. We have a nice kitting operation going in our Bloomingdale facility and we are building up to more profitable portion of that business.

And by the second quarter, I expect Connected Solutions to start hitting its mark of well over $20 million a quarter. And in addition to that, there has been in the first quarter, I would call it not a slowdown, but a little bit of breather from three of our largest customers, one of our major distributors, two of our OEMs in the Wi-Fi and public safety business. They have complained tremendously about weather. I would not use weather as an excuse, but it certainly come back to use, but there has been a slowdown for them and we expect that influence first quarter that's why we gave somewhat less robust revenue profile, but in second quarter, we think that that's going to fully recover.

On the positive side, our core products, the GPS product line, the fleet product line, our Wi-Fi product line, our omni product line, are all continuing to gain traction. As I said, we're seeing strong kitting opportunities with the site preparation kits for AWS, small cell kits. We're shipping out prototypes of those kits this quarter. That business won't begin to mid-second quarter, third quarter in big numbers. But we're talking about enormous opportunity there that will make the Lexington acquisition look quite good. On the other side, in RFS, we're really rolling along. We're going to get pretty big uptick from the IBflex, from SeeWave and continued growth in the network engineering services.

John, you mentioned keeping the full year revenue level where you had before, in your prior commentary, but you didn't say what that was. So, maybe repeat that for the benefit of those who might not have been on the last call.

Yeah. We're still in the $112 million to $114 million range.

Okay. And, Marty, when does this rail business that slipped materialize, you think?

Yeah, I think we're going to – I mean right now, we're on the precipice of whether it's going to hit in the first quarter or the second quarter. We've got one major order that is a timing issue right now. But at the very latest, you're going to see the rail business materialize in the second quarter.

Is your guidance expecting it in the first quarter?

No. The guidance that John gave assumes that we will not get it and we will not get small cell kits in the first quarter. So the guidance assumes that those have all moved into the second quarter.

Okay. Well, thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next response is from Mike Crawford [B. Riley]. Please go ahead.

Thank you. On the network engineering services revenues that more than doubled year-over-year, approximately what level of revenue are you generating from that business today?

Well. We hate to get down to those microscopic levels, but let's say for argument sake that you can expect 2 to 2.5 a quarter.

Okay. Thanks, Marty. And then, you said you were excited about the investment in IBflex, so what is the approximate level of that investment and what are your aspirations for that product?

Just the increment alone going from third quarter to fourth quarter was $350,000, there is probably a $0.5 million a quarter tied up in it for the next, this quarter and Q1 and it will ratchet go down a little bit in Q2 and little bit more in Q3, $0.5 million a quarter.

So. All together you're investing, I'm not sure what the answer is, a couple of million dollars to develop this product?

I would say the program cost us about $2 million, which is about half of what the MX cost us, but the big breakthrough in IBflex was combining the flexibility that what we got when we did a EXflex, in other words, the ability to support all spectrums on a dial-in basis, you just dial in what spectrum you're testing, two, support all of the technologies on a temporary or permanent basis but whatever the case is, you can download the technology you want over the Internet. And the third thing that the flex did was it gave us a paid-per-use capability. Somebody can rent a feature set like MIMO for a period of time. What the in-building did was it took the form factor and it cut it basically in half.

And so, now and also it allowed for variable processing time. So when you are drive testing, you need to sample continually because you are driving; you're going at a fast pace. Battery life isn't an issue there, because you have it plugged in. When you're walking, you don't have to sample quite as fast, so you can save the battery, and in addition we invented a hot swappable battery, so somebody can test buildings all day without taking their equipment down. Just as importantly, it has a Bluetooth interface, so now anybody who puts our visualization tools, let's say, on an android tablet can have a Bluetooth connection to their mobile device see and store the results, and finally with a simple dongle attachment this simultaneously tests Wi-Fi, which has become a requirement in any in-building network design.

So, it's interesting to me that not only did Ascom display our product at her booth, but we'll implant over to another vendor who I won't mention who was acquired by a competitor, they also had our product in their booth. And I believe it's going to help us signup additional OEMs who are in the test and measurement business. And I think it'll be very attractive to people in the network engineering business.

Okay. Thanks. Marty, then last question. On Positive Train Control, we've seen Metrolink go live, had a mandate in Southern California, but other railway operators continuing to drag their feet and try to get this thing pushed out even further. So, I understand, it sounds like you have some specific order to ship likely in Q2, but other than that, are you seeing continued delays in PTC in general or what are your thoughts there?

I don't think I've seen really delays. It's a matter of people winding up their capital budgets. But I definitely see this as a 2014 event and it's a 2014 event that I believe is going to kickoff of five-year period of growth.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] There are no responses in the queue at this time.

Okay. Well, thank you very much for joining us so early in the morning and we will update you at our next earnings conference call. I plan on presenting at the B. Riley Investment Conference in May and hope to see you there. And I hope also to be on None-Deal Roadshows with the two companies that follow us. Thank you again.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.