raw transcript


PC-Tel, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:>


Thanks for holding everyone and welcome to today's PCTEL Incorporated Second Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. Just a reminder today's call is being recorded and at this time I would


like to turn to call over to your host, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PCTEL, Mr. Marty


Singer. Please go ahead sir.


Martin Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. On behalf of PCTEL. Welcome to our earning's release conference call for


the second quarter. I want to thank all of you for attending and for your continued interest in our


Company's progress. I also want to thank you for being flexible in accommodating our time change


that was done for the purpose of accommodating our analyst who had multiple companies to cover


at this time. My name is Marty Singer and I am PCTEL's Chairman and CEO. With me today are


several of our key Executives including John Schoen, our CFO, Jeff Miller, our VP of Global Sales


and Jeff, The Solo Director of Marketing.


As we had in the past, John will review our financial performance in some detail and will review our


balance sheet and other issues. I will cover the general state of the business, discuss highlights of


the past quarter and then I will discuss some areas of focus for the remainder of the year. We will


then open the call to questions and we will set aside as much time as is needed to answer them.


Jeff will help to answer questions related to sales results across the three business units. With that


as background, John will read the Safe-Harbor statement and then provide a financial overview.


John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of Company, I will read the Safe-Harbor


statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal


Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations


regarding the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses including expansions through


investment and acquisition are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new


technologies and obtain protections for related IP, the ability to integrate acquired businesses and


products and the risks associated with future acquisitions. Our litigation expenses are dependent


on a number of factors, not all of which are within our control. Additional discussion of these and


other factors effecting the Company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC


filings. These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update


information to reflect subsequent events.


This concludes the Safe-Harbor statement. Now, I will continue with the financial review. Let's start


with revenue. Second quarter 2005 total revenue, was $18.3 million compared to 11.5 million in the


second quarter of 2004. This represents a 59% increase. The 2005 number includes wireless


product revenue of 18 million up from 10.1 million last year and licensing revenue of 300,000


compared to 1.4 million a year ago. I will speak to the trends by segment. Our antenna products


group revenue for the second quarter was 13.4 million compared with 5.8 million a year ago. The


increase reflects a 20% organic growth over last year as well as a 6.3 million from the antenna


product lines that we acquired from Andrew in the fourth quarter of last year. Revenue is up 30%
raw transcript


PC-Tel, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


sequentially from the first quarter, with approximately 2 million of the growth from the product lines


acquired at the end of 2004 and 1.1 million from our existing product lines.


RF solutions group revenue was 3.3 million in the quarter up 30% from the second quarter last and


up 7% sequentially from the first quarter this year. The company is benefiting from the role out of


UMTS networks and the related need for 3G scanners. The mobility solutions group revenue in the


second quarter was 1.3 million down 27% from the second quarter last year and up 17%


sequentially from the first quarter of this year. MSG revenue by quarter, was uneven in 2004, due to


the timing of initial customization fees and an initial block purchases of roaming client licenses by


carriers, the Company is seeing a more stable revenue trend in 2005 due to a combination of stable


buying patters from several carriers and ratable revenue recognition of several contracts under


revenue recognition rules for software contracts. The revenue levels are indicative of the early


stage subscriber traction of the carrier customer base. The license – licensing segment revenue


was 0.3 million compared to 1.4 million in the second quarter of last year and 0.4 million in the first


quarter this year. This segment continues to be effective this year by completion of older licensing


agreements, absent any intellectual property litigation settlements it is expected to remain around


$300,000 a quarter for the rest of 2005.


Now, I would like to speak to revenue guidance for the third quarter of 2005. Total revenue is


expected to be between 20 and 21 million, which includes approximately 3 million attributable to the


recent acquisition of Sigma Wireless Technologies. As previously stated, we expect licensing


revenue to be approximately $300,000 of that number. We are raising our total annual 2005


revenue guidance from 63 to 65 million to a range of 75 to 78 million. The Sigma acquisition


represents approximately 89 million of the revenue guidance increased with the remaining 4 to 5


million increase, related to the Company’s existing product lines before that acquisition.


Now let’s turn to gross margin. Equity gross margin for the second quarter was 47.5% compared to


63% to the second quarter last year and 49.6 for the first quarter this year. The gross margin trend


at the total level is indicative of the rapid growth of the antenna products group relative to our other


segments. I will speak to each of the segment individually.


Antenna products gross margin was 36.2% in the second quarter compared to 41.9% in the second


quarter last year and 34.4% in the first quarter this year. The integration of the products acquired


from Andrew into our own factory has been more challenging than anticipated. Additionally, we are


incurring unfavorable variances in resolving the rapid sequential quarter revenue growth. We


anticipate achieving close to 37% in the third quarter and 38% to 39% by the fourth quarter on our


existing product lines before the inclusion of Sigma in the second half of this year, as we shared on


the conference call shortly after the Sigma acquisition the gross profit for those products is currently


in the low to mid 20’s range with the goal of getting into the low to mid 30’s range in 2006. With that


said, we anticipate that the total APG gross profit with Sigma will ruin in the 33% to 34% range for


he second half of 2005.


Now let’s turn to RF solutions. RF solutions gross margin was 69% in the second quarter compared


to 68% a year ago and 76% in the first quarter this year. The first quarter benefited from a heavy


concentration of OEM receiver and software products which have higher margins in their system


sale. We expect margins going forward to be in the 67% to 72% range. Mobility solutions gross


margin was 97% in the second quarter this year compared to 98% in the second quarter last year


and 97% in the first quarter this year. We expect gross margins to remain in the 96%-98% range


going forward. After taking into account the revenue mix for the upcoming quarter total margin for


the third quarter is expected to be between 45%-46%.


Now, let’s turn to operating expenses. Let’s talk about our operating expense cost structure our


investors will have noticed that we have changed the income statement presentation of stock based


compensation expense. Rather than presenting it on a single line of the income statement, this