corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL First


Quarter 2010 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time.


As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes. I will now turn the call


over to Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, April 22, 2010, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for


the first quarter 2010. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and John Schoen,


Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and product


development and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties,


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new


technologies and obtain protection for the related IP. Additional discussion of these and other


factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings.


These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information


to reflect subsequent events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin H. Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon. I just want to let everybody know that today was a pretty


good day for us, we closed over $7.00 of share, that’s the first time we have done so since October


23rd of 2008. For those of you who have not had a chance to read our press release, I would like to


recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter on a continuing operations basis.


We achieved revenue of $15.6 million. Non-GAAP gross profit margin was 47%. Non-GAAP


operating margin was 2%. Non-GAAP net income was 356,000 or $0.02 per diluted share. Cash


and investments were $72.5 million after our acquisition of Sparco Technologies.


With that I would like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss our financial


performance in some detail. After his remarks, I will comment on our progress over the past quarter


and what we see in the future. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty and good afternoon or evening to everyone. Our investors will note that the


company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes


that presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income excluding restructuring charges


and non-cash based expense including stock and stock option-based compensation, amortization


and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


losses on the sale of product lines and related note receivable, and non-cash based income tax


expense provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation


to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with


the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My


discussion of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


Let’s turn to revenue. First quarter 2010 revenue was 15.6 million. This compares to 14.1 million in


the first quarter of 2009, an increase of 10%. The recent acquisition of Ascom’s scanning receiver


business, distribution rights associated with the Wider Networks interference management product


line, and Sparco Technologies’ antenna businesses collectively contributed to the increase in


revenue, in addition to organic growth.


On the organic growth revenue side, antenna product revenue was higher than the same period


last year from a recovery in the LMR product segment sold through the company’s distribution


channel. Scanning receiver revenue was lower than the same period last year, but higher than


each of the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2009.


Now let’s turn to gross profit. Non-GAAP gross profit margin for the first quarter was 47% compared


to 48% for the same period last year. Margins for scanning receiver products were comparable to


the same period last year while antenna margins were improved as the company leveraged fixed


costs over greater revenue. However, the higher sales mix of antenna products versus scanning


receiver products with their considerable software content caused the overall margin percent to be


lower.


Now let’s turn to non-GAAP operating expenses, which were 7 million in the quarter, an increase of


450,000 from the same period last year. R&D increased approximately $400,000 related to


investment in scanning receiver development, approximately half of which is related to the


acquisition of the Ascom scanning receiver business.


Selling, general and administrative costs was 50,000 higher from an investment in sales resources.


The Conexant royalty agreement was fully paid in the second quarter of 2009 and is therefore zero


this quarter.


Non-GAAP operating income in the first quarter was 275,000 or 2% of revenue compared to


386,000 or 3% of revenue in the same period in ‘09. The results reflect a net increase of 79,000


from higher gross profit dollars, netted with higher operating costs, which was offset by a $200,000


decrease in the Conexant royalty. Other income was a 159,000 versus 165,000 in the first quarter


of ‘09.


The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%, unchanged from last year.


Non-GAAP net income for the quarter was 356,000 or $0.02 per diluted share compared to non-


GAAP net income of 451,000 or $0.03 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2009, the difference


coming from the change in operating profit that I just discussed.


Now let’s turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the quarter at approximately 73


million, 3 million lower than last quarter. Approximately 12 million is classified as long-term


investment securities. The company paid out cash of a little over 2 million for its Sparco


Technologies acquisition in the quarter. The company used approximately 1 million in cash and


investments from all other activities during the quarter.