Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John W. Schoen — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Senior VP, PCTEL, Inc.
Martin H. Singer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PCTEL, Inc.
David A. Neumann — Senior Vice President, PCTEL, Inc.
John Thakkar — Vice President-Network Analytics, PCTEL, Inc.
Matt Robison — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Timothy Hasara — Portfolio Manager - Micro Cap, Kennedy Capital Management

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will open up the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now turn the call to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you for joining us today for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the fourth quarter 2014. On today's call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and I am John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to read our Safe Harbor statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and features, product development, acquisition efforts, and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless business, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.

Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies, and obtain protection for the related intellectual property. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.

Thank you, John, and good afternoon. I should mention that I am in Barcelona here with David Neumann, Bob Joslin, and John Thakkar. We are all attending the Mobile World Congress. John is in Bloomingdale, so we aren't seeing each other face-to-face as we give this call.

Let me recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter. First, we achieved revenue of $29.4 million. Our gross margin was 40%. Operating margin from continuing operations was 12%. Net income was $3 million or $0.16 per diluted share. Cash and investments were $60 million, an increase of $1.1 million from the previous quarter.

During today's call, we will also be discussing the acquisition of the assets of Nexgen Wireless, a company headquartered in Schaumburg, Illinois that focuses on network analytics and engineering services. For simplicity, I will be referring to the transaction as the 'Nexgen acquisition' during the remainder of the call. The Nexgen Wireless founder and CEO, John Thakkar, is with me today, and as I said, along with David Neumann and Bob Joslin. We are all hosting the conference from the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, while John is in Bloomingdale.

At this point, I will turn the call back to John.

Thank you, Marty. Our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of gross profit, operating profit, and net income, excluding expenses for restructuring, gain or loss on sale of assets or legal settlements, stock-based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, and non-cash related income tax expense provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company's core results and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods.

For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My discussions of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.

So let's turn to revenue. Revenues were $29.4 million in the quarter and $107.2 million for the year. The quarterly revenue is up 13% from the same period last year and the annual revenue grew 3%. I will speak to the changes by reporting segment.

RF Solutions' revenues were $9.5 million in the quarter and $35.1 million for the year, representing a period-over-period growth of 10% in the quarter and 16% for the year. For the quarter and the year, network engineering services were up significantly compared to the same periods in 2013 due to the rapid growth of in-building wireless network expansion.

Scanning receiver revenue was down slightly in the quarter and up slightly for the year. The Company experienced weaker scanner revenue in North America, which was offset by revenue growth in China.

Connected Solutions revenues were $19.9 million in the quarter and $72.3 million for the year, representing period over period 2013 comparisons of a 15% increase in the quarter and a 3% decline for the year. The company experienced strong site solutions growth in the fourth quarter from its cellular kitting products.

Now let's turn to gross margin. Gross profit margin as a percent of sales was 40% in the quarter and 41% for the year, representing a 2% of sales decline in the quarter and just under a 0.5% improvement for the year.

RF Solutions' gross profit as a percent of sales was 59% in the quarter and 60% for the year, representing a period-over-period decline of 5% of sales in the quarter and a 4% of sales for the year. The decrease in quarter and the year are attributed to the increased contribution of our network engineering services revenue with its lower gross profit margin relative to scanners.

Connected Solutions' gross profit as a percent of sales was 31% in the quarter and 32% for the year, unchanged for the quarter and up one point for the year. The annual improvement is attributing to having a full year impact of the margin improvement program we implemented in the second half of 2013 to eliminate unprofitable site solution business and customers and consolidating the site solutions factory into our Bloomingdale facility. Those improvements were able to more than offset the impact of lower antenna revenue with its relatively larger higher margin.

Now let's turn to non-GAAP operating expenses from continuing operations. Operating expenses were $8.2 million in the quarter and $33.3 million for the year, representing period-over-period 2013 comparisons of $100,000 decrease in the quarter and up $200,000 for the year. For the year, R&D was up $700,000, due primarily to the investment in scanning receiver flex product line.

Sales and marketing for the year was up $800,000 largely from investments in business development for our network engineering services. G&A was down $1.3 million for the year with $800,000 attributed to the completion of the Oracle ERP project in mid-2013, with the remainder related to lower variable compensation in the 2014 Short Term Incentive Plan that was earned in 2013.

Non-GAAP operating margin as a percent of sales was 12% in the quarter and 10% in the year and improvement as a percent of sales of two points in the quarter and one point for the year. The increased revenue and resulting higher gross profit in both the quarter and the year was leveraged over stable operating costs.

Non-GAAP other income was $18,000 in the fourth quarter. As a reminder, as the amounts are largely interest on our investments, the number will continue to be small in the current interest rate environment.

The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter and the year was 18%, unchanged from 2013. Non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.16 in the quarter and $0.48 for the year, resulting in period-over-period increases of $0.04 in the quarter and $0.06 for the year.

Now let's turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the fourth quarter at approximately $60 million, about $1.1 million higher than the previous quarter. In the quarter, the company generated approximately $2.6 million of cash flow from operations, spent approximately $700,000 on capital expenditures yielding free cash flow, that is, cash flow from operations less capital spending as a percent of revenue of 6% in the quarter. Depreciation in the quarter was $752,000.

For the year, the company generated free cash flow of approximately $5.4 million or 5% of revenue. Of that free cash flow, the company returned $3 million to shareholders in the form of regular dividends and $1.7 million in stock buybacks or about 85% of the free cash flow generated.

Now let's turn to the first quarter 2015. We anticipate first quarter revenue to be in a range of $28 million to $29 million. Gross profit margin is expected to be about 39%. Our operating costs are expected to be approximately $9.6 million, which includes about little over $600,000 of transaction and due diligence costs for the Nexgen acquisition. The non-GAAP effective income tax rate is expected to remain unchanged going forward at 18%. The fully diluted share count in the first quarter is expected to be about 18.7 million shares.

Full-year guidance for 2015 is revenue between $133 million and $138 million, gross profit margin in a range of 40% to 41% of revenue, and operating costs between $40 million and $41 million inclusive of the Nexgen transaction costs, a non-GAAP income tax rate of 18% and a share count of approximately 18.7 million shares.

That concludes the financial review. I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for his summary comments.

Thanks, John. This is one of our more exciting earnings release calls. In addition to delivering positive news about our momentum at the end of the year, we are geared to explain more about the acquisition of Nexgen Wireless. It makes sense, we think, to begin with that topic and then to review the highlights of the past quarter and what we anticipate for the current quarter and the year.

We've already mentioned that we are hosting this call from Barcelona and you may at the end of this call want to ask some questions about what we're seeing this year. As many of you know, PCTEL has discussed three areas for potential expansion through acquisition; achieving scale in our antenna business, investing in analytic tools to complement our scanning receiver businesses and building upon our momentum in the engineering services. The acquisition of Nexgen is consistent with two of those three target growth areas.

Nexgen has established a significant U.S.-based engineering services operation and developed powerful tool for acquiring network data that guides carriers and infrastructure providers in identifying performance trends. This information has enabled Nexgen to recommend customer impactful changes to the network. Their tool, the Meridian product line, has three modules, Map IQ, Network IQ and Subscriber IQ that will prepare PCTEL into crowd-based, cloud-based network analytics.

Nexgen's engineering services business is closely associated with Meridian and they have developed a Software-as-a-Service business model. Utilizing Meridian, their engineers collect data for carriers and infrastructure providers and some neutral host companies. They perform drive tests and they serve as subject matter experts for a variety of clients.

We will only realize 10 months of revenue in 2015 and we anticipate incremental investment in the Meridian platform business development and improved employee benefits for the Nexgen employees to become the company's employees.

The entire Nexgen operation will report into our existing RFS business segment and we are forecasting $57 million to $60 million in 2015 revenue for that segment coupled with $76 million to $78 million for Connected Solutions, we should generate $133 million to $138 million in 2015 revenue. This is consistent with the guidance that John provided earlier.

We continue to believe that five trends will drive our growth in 2015 and beyond. The growth of in-building networks which favorably impacts all of our businesses, small cell deployment in the U.S. which creates demand for engineering services and specialized antennas, the rollout of LTE in China, continued growth of key vertical markets for our scanning receiver products and the success of our recently released flex products of RFS. We now can add a sixth growth factor; our ability to participate and the demand for data analytics, big data and the sophisticated tools and cloud-based reporting for carriers.

Now to quickly review fourth quarter highlights and I will be brief in my discussion. We have five major highlights with respect to the market. Our core antenna business surged. The growth was driven by strength in our two primary product lines; GNSS and broadband wireless antennas. More to the point, major OEMs such as Cisco, Aruba, Extreme, Nokia, Alcatel-Lucent, Motorola and others exhibited a high demand for our products as Wi-Fi and LTE satisfied an ever-growing data appetite.

Second, we have the fastest take-up ever of a new product, the IBflex. We sold more of these units in the fourth quarter than in the previous three quarters combined. Flex products, the IB and EX series, now account for most of our scanning receiver sales. More importantly, it is clear that our focus on a flexible product that can be adapted to both indoor and outdoor use was well founded.

We announced on Friday the latest member of our flex line, a powerful MXflex. This product sets a new standard for the number of broadband technologies measured in parallels, speed of – measured in parallel, speed of processing, range of frequencies, and feature richness.

Third, China. Over the last three years, we've tripled our APAC revenue. We are the only company whose scanning receiver is being deployed by all three major carriers and we have put together a coalition of over 19 OEM resellers in China. In addition to our scanning receiver sales, we realized incremental antenna sales inside China.

Fourth, engineering services. NES completed 1,000 projects in 2014. We believe that this will be 60% of our RFS business this year and when we pull out the software-only sales from Nexgen, we anticipate that in aggregate we'll be delivering over half of our RFS revenue from software and services.

Fifth, site solutions. We delivered over $5 million of small cell, macro cell, and mobile tower based solutions. This run rate is consistent with our forecast for 2014, although we are concerned about the impact that oil prices might have on the demand for communication gear in North Western Canada's oil fields.

In addition to these positive results in the fourth quarter, we had a few notable product introductions including the new venue product line for dense coverage areas such as arenas, terminals, campuses, and so on. We announced our five-year warranty and also introduced several PIM-rated antennas and low-profile, multi-band antenna for precision agriculture and fleet management, and several custom antennas for LTE and Wi-Fi OEM infrastructure providers. Also noteworthy were the initial shipments of antenna farms into the rail industry. These farms are located on locomotives and [ph] consistent (17:19) multi-band GNSS, LTE and Wi-Fi antennas used for positive train control, on-train command, and control communication and passenger communication.

Finally, we received significant orders for our GNSS WAAS antennas that's Wide Area Augmentation System antennas used for commercial aviation. One order will focus on the upgrade on the U.S. network and a second order will bring our WAAS technology to Japan. A few of these sales occurred in the fourth quarter, but most we'll ship during 2015 to large systems integrators.

John Thakkar, David Neumann, Bob Joslin and I will be walking on Mobile World Congress exhibit on Tuesday and Wednesday, and we look forward to meeting with investors, customers, any of you who happen to be there, OEM resellers and potential customers.

We have set aside 30 minutes at this point for your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Matt Robison of Wunderlich. Your line is open.

Hey, thanks. And good to hear the antennas are coming back. First, let's talk a little bit – ask a little bit about the fourth quarter. John, can you comment a little bit on the DSO stretch, what the driver from that was and the backdrop for the sales and marketing – this big sales and marketing expense increase, and I've got some questions on the outlook and acquisition?

Yeah. So the backdrop for Q4 on the DSO is that we had a huge surge in the fourth quarter of small cell kits and that is to Verizon where it's the net 60-day terms all that stuff went out in late November and early December, and we're actually going to see a nice cash flow bump. We normally are out cash in the first quarter and I expect to be positive cash in the first quarter.

On the sales and marketing side, we have made investments this year in sales and marketing personnel, and we did have a catch-up entry there with the resurgence of commissions that happened in that line; and in another comment, we did have a negative surprise of $0.01 a share in G&A. We had an unexpected VAT tax – value-added tax settlement that we were pressed with in China and we settled. We didn't know about that at the time of our last earnings call. And that cost us $0.01 a share, but those are basically the biggies that happened this quarter.

Thanks. On the Nexgen, I can kind of get a little bit of the revenue color from all the numbers you provided, but maybe a little more specifics on that and how many employees, what kind of gross margins we should expect and what the incremental OpEx will be?

John, I'll answer on employees and you can get into the numbers but basically we're talking about roughly 160 employees and contractors coming over.

How does that relate to your overall head count exiting the year?

Well, today we have 459 employees, so now PCTEL will be roughly 620 employees. And we do not anticipate taking out any resources from Nexgen. Actually it's the opposite. We're looking at making investments in business development. I also say this that a great deal of the head count is in engineering services and also on area that we would refer to as subject matter experts or staff augmentation. If you look at those areas, we really have non-overlapping areas of engineering services activity. So for example, Bob Joslin who was here today and completed 1,000 projects, all 1,000 of those projects were in building. I mean some I suppose you could say are campus based, but basically they're in building. 90% of Nexgen Wireless products are macro cellular products – projects and so these are non-overlapping resource and focus areas.

John, you want to talk about how the revenue breaks? I can say broadly this on the revenue. 40% of the revenue comes from what I would call drive test benchmarking optimization services, approximately $12 million comes from a combination of outright software sales or licensing and Software-as-a-Service and then the remaining amount comes from staff augmentation.

What do you mean by staff augmentation? You mean just the engineering services in the sense of contract labor-type stuff?

I'm sorry, could you ask your question again, Matt?

When you say staff augmentation, you mean....

Staff augmentation means let's say a carrier needs expertise in voice-over LTE and as is the case more frequently the carrier has many market managers, but not a lot of highly skilled engineers in those niche areas. And the $12 million that I mentioned in software and Software-as-a-Service breaks down in this way. There is some amount that simply reflects licensing and sales, and the other amount – the other activity is Software-as-a- Service, where Nexgen Wireless will sit there and they'll collect data from switches, data from devices, data from nodes in the network, and other sources. They can in fact take in data from drive test systems. And then they generate actionable reports for the carriers based on the collection of data and the analysis of those data.

Is the staff augmentation about $2 million?

I don't want to drill down into really the specific in each area, but it's the smallest area of the business.

Okay. Who do you [ph] believe is the competitor (25:13) for Nexgen?

Well, first of all there is always competition from inside infrastructure vendors and from carriers. They can design their own tools and they might have their own resources, but the competition for Nexgen comes from some of the usual suspects. LCC and whatever it has morphed into smaller companies of that type, I mean you have companies in cell site deployment such as Goodman Networks and they will have engineering services associated with their projects and then you have different players with different types of analytic tools. What's unusual about Nexgen is they provide multiple tools and multiple analytic capabilities in one portfolio. The area of analytics for cellular network performance engineering is pretty fragmented.

Do you want to comment Bob or David or John on the competition for Nexgen Wireless?

This is David Neumann. The one comment, even though there is competition in a lot of instances, the skill sets are different and we actually will subcontract some of those companies in the areas where they're not strong.

Okay. John, could you talk about the gross margin and OpEx?

Yeah. So there's about, call it, $18 million, $19 million this year, that'll fall on our side of the ledger in the 10 months. The blended margin is in the upper 30%s, call it, 37% for a placeholder; and on our side of the ledger, they'll be about $4 million in OpEx. I haven't really drilled all the way through what lines it goes on, but for now a placeholder – reasonable placeholder call it $2 million on R&D and $1 million in sales/marketing and $1.5 million in G&A, and I'm eventually going to have to sort that out just a little too soon.

Fair enough. So with that kind of blended margin, I guess that stock speaks to what Marty was saying about the 40% for drive test and staff augment and also the staff augmentation which seems like that head count would probably go to significant degree into COGS and then the $12 million in software sales I presume in SaaS, I presume, is pretty high margin?

Yeah. So, and once again that's a combination of pure software revenues like subscriptions and then you've got engineering services that use the Meridian tool as the basis to do their value-added analysis, so that's why you end up with a higher margin profile like that.

What kind of growth rates should we expect for Nexgen? And can we think of the software and SaaS business growing faster than the labor-oriented part?

We're looking at about 15% for software-driven engineering services and then for our in-building engineering services 15% to 20%. Now, we've had year-over-year gigantic growth, but it's going to return to earth. The one wildcard is to the extent to which some of our in-building services gets directed to the explosion in small cell.

Makes sense.

The other thing that's difficult to forecast, voice-over LTE is taking really a special type of analysis. Unlike data where you can be insensitive to temporal qualities because the packets can be mixed and matched and reordered, voice can't be done that way. And so there's going to be a lot more effort – engineering effort into voice-over LTE and make sure that everything is done perfectly in those environments. So that could add an additional growth factor to our engineering services. David?

With their macro orientation, wouldn't there also be a big push for optimizing coverage because for the same reason so that the continuity is there to support the low latency?

Introduce yourself.

Yes. This is John Thakkar from Nexgen. You're right, Matt. As the capacity grows – capacity need grows for macro network, introduction of data services and voice over LTE will cause operators to continually optimize their networks and that will increase the macro or services.

Marty, great to see you guys getting some software content. I'll let somebody else ask some questions.

Yeah. So before you go though, I do want to mention one specific area and maybe one of the three of you guys here can expand on this, which is Neighbor List Optimization and how that's become a really important area with the introduction of small cells and resectorization and data densification line. You talk about that and what your tool does in that area, John.

So one of the things we do really well is bring in various types of network data and analyze that and provide actionable intelligence for the engineering and operations departments for wireless carriers. One of the things we bring in is Neighbor List data, and we also bring in something called handoff matrix data which has every handoff that's ever made in the system and the matrix related to it. So this is a lot of data that we correlate with Neighbor List and recommend Neighbor List relationship changes and priorities. In addition, we also bring in configuration management data and provide analysis of millions of configuration available and the delta may be to our clients' network. So just with those two components, you can make a significant dent in networks optimization quality.

Thanks, John.

Operator, is there another person in queue to ask a question?

Yes, there is. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mike Crawford of B. Riley. Your line is open.

Yes. Thank you. That was a lot of questions. I'll just keep it short. With Nexgen, how fast was that company growing independently and how fast do you think it can grow as part of PCTEL?

Well, as I say, we are planning on a 10% to 15% growth rate. They have grown over the last three years at a pretty steady state. The last three or four years have been strong years of growth for them and they've had years of growth, which have been closer to 20%, even 22%. And what's impressive about Nexgen Wireless is that during their growth period they've been able to maintain very favorable gross margins and that's because value that they are able to derive in their engineering services from this analytic work that they do with their Meridian platform. They are also providing a service to their carriers in that they are not only doing the data analytics, but they've come up with some very efficient ways to filter and store the data as a service to the customer.

And I'd like to add that – Mike, this is David. As you know, we have international sales team in Europe and Asia. The groups that we sell scanning receivers to would be the same [indiscernible] (34:09) use these value-added services we're already in. So one area of growth is accounting leverage; our international sales teams provide more products and services in them.

Right. So that kind of brought me to the next question is, how much in scan receiver revenue have you had to Nexgen Wireless over the past few years?

Really not very much. They – Nexgen Wireless uses the equipment that belongs to their customers.

Which is PCTEL equipment.

Right. So they are very familiar – they are engineered to use our equipment, but they aren't buyers of our equipment. So for example if they do work for Samsung or Sprint, while they have been Accuver and Ascom customers, and so both of those companies utilize our scanning receiver, and so the Nexgen Wireless engineers are thoroughly familiar with our equipment. I will say this that your question is an important one in that one of our areas of focus over the next two years is going to be the integration of data from those customer systems; Ascom, Accuver, JDSU, and many others where we integrate their data directly into the Meridian platform, so along with the switching data, along with user element data they'll have sophisticated data from these, what's called the retail network test equipment constellations. So we're really looking forward to that aspect of the growth.

Okay. Thank you, and then just a last question is, what did you base acquisition multiple and how did you value the company and what ROI do you expect?

Yeah, yeah. We basically looked at revenues multiple and revenues of EBITDA. We had an outside fairness opinion done at that and we concluded that we were really in a great place on EBITDA multiples. We paid close to 1x revenue for a company with a strong software component. Recent transactions such as Anite's acquisition of Xceed, we had approximately three times revenue.

I hesitate to say all these things in front of John Thakkar here. But I also say this Mike; as you know there has been some frustration with the speed with which we've deployed our cash and acquisitions. This was the fourth company this year that we did a really deep dive on in a service related area, by far the best, and compared to the potential valuations in those areas it was quite consistent. We saw a lot of consistency across all our targets. And over the last 18 months we have looked in depth at 15 companies. So we think we did a pretty good job here. We had a lot of outside help on the due diligence and getting audited financials. And as I say, we also had a fairness opinion done. We believe that our EBITDA multiple will improve from purchase to 2016 revenue and EBITDA.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you, Mike.

Your next question comes from the line of Tim Hasara of Kennedy Capital. Your line is open.

Yes, what do you anticipate spending in R&D for both PCTEL and Nexus?

Nexus? Do you mean, Nexgen Wireless?

Yes, I'm sorry, Nexgen. Yes.

Well, Nexgen Wireless has been running along at about 35 engineers in development – 35 to 40 is that right, John? So we would look at that as somewhere in the neighborhood of $4 million, maybe a little bit more historically. We have paid, I think, this last year about $7.3 million in RFS. And I think we paid about $5 million in [ph] turns (39:25). I'm looking off my numbers right now, but basically with the addition of Connected Solutions, our percent of revenue in development in Connected Solutions to [ph] wrap (39:37) from near 8% to around 5%. We've been hanging in that about 22% to 23% in RF Solutions. I think that you can anticipate long-term that R&D as a percentage of total revenue will be in a similar range, 20% to 25%.

Okay. But for Nexgen, how much additional R&D will you spend? You made a comment in your remarks that you're going to spend more....

$4 million in R&D.

Total for the year? Right. And then...

We'll probably add about $500,000 to that. I'm sorry, I thought you meant in addition to current PCTEL. We'll increase by 10% to 15% what they are spending right now.

Okay. So current PCTEL, you've been around 10% or 11% of revenue, is that correct?

Yeah, 11.5%.

11.5% blended, exactly.

Okay. And are you – what is the EBITDA multiple that you paid for Nexgen? You were referring to it, but not telling us what it is?

All right, John, you know what, I would have to look that up on a slide deck. Hold on a second. It might take me a minute. If you have another question.

I guess one other question. You announced a buyback; what did you do with the buyback in the December quarter?

It hasn't reached our target for buying back stock. We did not buy back stock in that quarter. In the 5% range, 5.5% range.

Okay. Great. And any anticipated change in the dividend policy given that you...?

We just changed it.

Okay. I know, but you just – that was part of the acquisition and I – so...

No. It was not part of the – the dividend was not part of that.

Well, no. My point is that you just did an acquisition today; is there any change due to the acquisition you announced today of the divided policy?

No. We generated...

Okay.

Done from the script. We generate about 10% to 10.5% in operating cash flow and we spend about 2.5% of it on CapEx or in – call it 7.5% to 8% range, that's plenty of money to do a dividend and fund the buybacks. So we're doing it all out of free cash flow.

Yeah. And if your – you're not even near buyback apparently if you haven't bought any stock back, so that won't factor in?

Yeah. Like I said, we would better target price out there that when – if it flows in there, it's out there and can be [ph] 5(1) (43:32) plan, and it will – it'll kick in, but we've got plenty of cash – free cash flow to cover that.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

And there are no further questions at this time. I return the call to Marty Singer for closing remarks.

Well, there are no further questions. I want to thank all of you for attending this quarter's conference call and our announcement regarding Nexgen Wireless. We look forward to meeting with you in the future at various investor conferences and at industry shows, certainly this week at Mobile World Congress if you happen to be there. We look forward to updating you at our next quarterly earnings conference call. Thank you.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.