corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL Fourth


Quarter 2008 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


open the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now turn the call over to Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Marketing and Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, February 26, 2009, for the PCTEL financial results conference call


for the fourth quarter 2008. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and John


Schoen, Financial Officer; and Bob Suastegui, Vice President of Sales.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws.


The comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations regarding the future


growth of our wireless RF business are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe


harbor. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and


uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement


new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP.


Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is


contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today, and we disclaim


any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin H. Singer, Ph. D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon to all of you. For those of you who have not had a chance to


read our press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter on a


continuing operations basis. We achieved revenue of 18.3 million; gross profit margin was 47%.


Non-GAAP operating margin was 12%, non-GAAP net income was 568,000, or $0.03 per diluted


share. And cash and investments were 78 million. I’d also like to add that in January, PCTEL made


another small strategic acquisition. We acquired Wi-Sys Communications, a Canadian-based


company specializing in GPS, antenna and receiver technology. I’ll discuss that acquisition later in


the call.


At this point, I’d like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss our financial


performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on our progress over the past quarter, and what


we see in the future. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty. Good afternoon or evening to everyone. Our investors will note that the company


presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that, that


the presentation of operating profit and net income excluding restructuring charges, non-cash
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


based expenses including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization and


impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions.


Gains or losses on the sales of product lines and non-cash based income tax expense provide


meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP financial


analysis reflects the company’s core results, and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods.


For more information on our non-GAAP financial results, and reconciliation to GAAP measures,


please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release


can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations.


My discussion of the results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results. As a reminder, the


company closed the sale of its Mobility Solutions Software Group or MSG to Smith Micro on


January 4 of 2008. The company’s financial statements have been revised to reflect MSG as a


discontinued operation. My discussion of financial results will address continuing operations.


Let’s turn to revenue. Fourth quarter 2008 revenue from continuing operations was 18.3 million,


compared to 19.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decrease of approximately 5%.


Revenue was lower for both scanning receivers and antenna products. Scanning receiver revenue


was lower on reduced carrier capital expenditure levels worldwide. Antenna revenue was lower in


both the distribution and OEM channels.


Non-GAAP gross margin from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was 47% versus 49% in


the same period last year. Both scanning receiver products and antenna products experienced


declining margins versus the same period last year as a result of less favorable product mix and


lower volume over fixed cost.


With regards to our operating expenses. Fourth quarter non-GAAP research and development and


SG&A from continuing ops were 6.6 million, down $200,000 from the same quarter last year.


Research and development expense was higher by 300,000 on engineering investments in both


scanning receivers and antennas. For example, this is the first full quarter of expenses related to


our new antenna design team in China.


SG&A expense is $500,000 lower through efficiencies resulting from our decision to divest our


software business and better control of our sales and marketing expenses. The Conexant royalty of


$200,000 was lower than last year by 50,000, as the contractual quarterly cap is lower in 2008.


Non-GAAP operating income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter was 2.1 million or


12% of revenue, compared to 2.9 million or 15% of revenue in the same period last year. The result


reflect lower gross profit margin on lower revenue, partially offset by lower operating expenses.


Let’s turn to other income. Other income and expense was an expense of 1.5 million in the fourth


quarter, compared to income of 200,000 a year-ago. There are two factors contributing to this


significant decline. As I will outline in more detail in the balance sheet review, we’re heavily


invested in Federal Government Agency paper and pre-refunded municipal notes for safety. The


yields on that move to safety are very low compared to the commercial paper we were invested in a


year-ago, before the credit market turmoil.


Secondly, the company recorded a 1.7 million mark-to-market loss in the quarter from the


company’s remaining investment in the Columbia Strategic Asset Portfolio and enhanced cash fund


sponsored by the of Bank of America. I will discuss the Columbia fund in more detail during my


review of the balance sheet and income statement guidance.