raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Good day and welcome to today's PCTEL Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2004 Earnings


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I would like to turn the call over to the


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marty Singer, please go ahead sir.


Martin H. Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and good afternoon everyone. I'm Marty Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


of PCTEL. On behalf of PCTEL, we thank you for joining us on our earnings call for the fourth


quarter. In this call we will address the financial results of the fourth quarter and the outlook for


PCTEL in the first quarter of 2005. Joining me today is John Schoen, Chief Operating Officer and


Chief Financial Officer. John will take you through our financial performance for the fourth quarter


as well as limited financial guidance for the first quarter of 2005. I will then comment on some of


those results and turn our attention to the significant events that transpired during the fourth quarter


and discuss our plans going forward. John?


John Schoen, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of the Company, I will read the Safe Harbor


statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking-statements within the meaning of the Federal


Securities laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations regarding


the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses including expansion through investment


and acquisition are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual


results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties including the


ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies and obtain


protection for the related IP, the ability to integrate acquired businesses and products, and the risks


associated with future acquisitions.


Our litigation expenses are dependent on a number of factors, not all of which are within our


control. Additional discussion of these other factors affecting the Company’s business and


prospects is contained in our periodic SEC fillings. These statements are made only as of today


and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events. This concludes


the Safe Harbor statement.


Now I would – I will continue with the financial review. Fourth quarter 2004 total revenue was 15.3


million compared to 18.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. The 2004 number includes wireless


product revenue of 14.2 million, up from 3.5 million last year and licensing revenue of 1.1 million


compared to 14.8 million a year ago. I will speak to the trends by segment. Our Antenna Products


Group, formerly MAXRAD, was acquired in January 2004 and we recently completed the fourth


quarter of this operations under PCTEL. It was supplemented by the acquisition of several antenna


product lines from Andrew Corporation on October 29, 2004. Revenue in the fourth quarter


including the Andrew acquisition for two months was $9.8 million, up 72% sequentially from the


third quarter this year. Organic sequential quarter growth without the Andrew product line was 14%.


The Company saw a return to increased revenue growth from its OEM customers in the quarter


which had slowed in the third quarter.


RF Solutions Group revenue was 3.3 million in the quarter, up 13% from the fourth quarter last year


and up 27% sequentially from the third quarter this year. The company saw return to traditional


levels of seasonal spending by its wireless carrier customers in the fourth quarter. The Company


continues to see increased traction from its claRiFy product line as the driver of revenue growth.
raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The Mobility Solutions Group revenue in the fourth quarter was 1.1 million, up 83% from last year


and about the same as the third quarter. The increased year-over-year reflects the accumulation of


carrier contract wins for a roaming client over the last year. The sequentially even revenue levels


are indicative of the early stage subscriber traction of the carrier customer base.


Licensing segment revenue was 1.1 million compared to 14.8 million in the fourth quarter last year


and 1.3 million as of third quarter this year. The fourth quarter of 2003 included a 13.5 million one-


time licensing settlement from Intel as well as the final quarter of several older licensing


agreements. This segment continues to be affected this year by completion of older licensing


agreements. It will continue to shrink in 2005 absent any intellectual property litigation settlements.


Now I would like to speak to revenue guidance for the first quarter of 2005. Total revenue is


expected to be between $13.5 million and $14 million comprised of wireless revenue in the range of


$13-13.5 million and licensing revenue of approximately $0.5 million. The wireless revenue


compares to 8.6 million in the first quarter last year. We continue to maintain our total annual 2005


revenue guidance of between $60 million and $64 million.


Now let’s turn to gross margin. Gross margin for the fourth quarter was 73% compared to 97% for


the fourth quarter last year and 59% for the third quarter of this year. Gross margin at the total level


is not comparable year-over-year or sequentially due to antenna products being acquired in 2004,


the one-time licensing settlement from Intel in 2003 and the one-time 3Com royalty expense


reversal in 2004. I will speak to each of the segments individually.


Antenna Products gross margin was 37.6% in the fourth quarter compared to 41.7% in the third


quarter of this year. The difference in margin is attributed to the duplicative manufacturing costs


related to the transition of the Andrew product lines out of Andrew's factory as well as slightly lower


margins on the Andrew products versus our organic product mix. The transition will continue


through the first quarter, we expect total antenna margins to be between 36% and 37% in the first


quarter inclusive of transition costs. We expect margins to settle in the 39-40% range after the


transition is complete.


RF Solutions gross margin was 65% in the fourth quarter compared to 80% in the fourth quarter of


2003. The fourth quarter of last year contained a heavy concentration of OEM receiver software.


We expect margins going forward to be in the 65-70% range.


Mobility Solutions gross margins was 94% in the fourth quarter compared to 96% in the fourth


quarter of 2003, we expect gross margin to remain in the 95% plus range going forward.


Gross margin for the first quarter of 2005 in total is expected to be between 47% and 49% due to


the addition of the Andrew antenna product lines and the related manufacturing transition cost,


previously mentioned.


Now lets turn to operating expenses. Total OpEx was 10.3 million in the fourth quarter, up 3.1


million from the fourth quarter last year and up $1.5 million from the third quarter this year. The


increases from last year are related to our two antenna acquisitions, our investment and patent


litigation, our increased investments in MSG and RFS distribution and our compliance costs for


Sarbanes-Oxley. I will focus my specific comments on a sequential quarter change. R&D, sales and


marketing, and G&A were up 1.2 million sequentially. $900,000 relates to the antenna acquisition.


$200,000 relates to a one-time spike in finishing our 2004 Sarbanes-Oxley compliance and


$100,000 relates to variable distribution cost on higher volume. Amortization was higher by


$100,000 from the antenna acquisition. There is restructuring cost in the fourth quarter related to


the closure of our office in California.