corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And we would like to welcome you to


the PCTEL Second Quarter 2010 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only


mode. Later, we will open up for the call for you to ask questions. Instructions for queuing up will be


provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I will now turn the call over to Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, July 26, 2010, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the


second quarter 2010. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO and John Schoen,


Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and product


development and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual results may differ


materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to


successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies and obtain


protection for the related IP. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the


company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are


made only as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent


events.


I would now like to turn the call over to Marty Singer.


Martin Marty H. Singer, Ph. D, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack, and good morning to all of you and I apologize for the early hour to those


investors and analysts out on the West Coast.


For those of you who have not had a chance to read our press release, I’d like to recap some of the


non-GAAP highlights from the quarter. We achieved revenue of $17.8 million, an increase of 33%


over the second quarter of 2009. Our non-GAAP gross profit margin was 46%, which is the same.


Non-GAAP operating margin was 6%. Non-GAAP net income was $1 million, or $0.06 per diluted


share, tripling earnings per share from the second quarter of 2009.


Cash and investments were $72.8 million. We generated $1.6 million of cash and investments


before buying back over 200,000 shares of PCTEL stock for $1.3 million during the quarter.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss our financial


performance in some detail. Later, I will comment personally of some of our business development,


engineering and marketing efforts over the past quarter, as well as some of our other current


activities. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty, and good morning to everyone. Our investors will note that the company


presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The Company believes that the
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income excluding restructuring charges and


non-cash-based expense, including stock and stock-option-based compensation, amortization and


impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or losses


on the sale of product lines and related note receivable and non-cash based income tax expense


provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP


financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons across reporting


periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP


measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC.


The release can also be found on our website under the Investor Relations tab. My discussion of


results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


Let’s turn to revenue. Second quarter 2010 revenue was 17.8 million. This compares to 13.4 million


in the second quarter of 2009, an increase of 33%. The improved sales reflected stronger Land


Mobile Radio, GPS, and WiMAX volume in our targeted vertical markets for antenna products.


Antenna sales improved in both our large distributors and to OEM resellers of our antennas.


Scanning receiver revenue saw improved sales through its OEM test and measurement resellers,


such as Ascom, Anite, and SwissQual.


Non-GAAP gross profit margin for the second quarter was 46%, unchanged from the same period


last year. Margins for scanning receiver products were comparable to the same period last year,


while antenna margins improved as the company leveraged fixed costs over greater revenue


volume. Increasing gross margin for our antenna product line has become essential as antennas


become a higher percentage of our aggregate revenue.


Now let’s turn to non-GAAP operating expenses, which were 7.1 million in the quarter, an increase


of 1.1 million from the same period last year. R&D increased approximately $400,000, related to


investments in scanning receiver development, approximately half of which is related to the


acquisition of the Ascom scanning receiver business. The $700,000 increase in SG&A expense


reflected the investment in ongoing Sparco sales operations, our investments in reaching specific


markets, our participation in two major industry conferences, and an increase in commissions and


variable compensation related to higher revenue and profits. The Conexant royalty agreement was


fully paid up in the second quarter 2009. It will drop out of our year-over-year comparisons going


forward.


Non-GAAP operating income in the second quarter was 1.1 million, or 6% of revenue, compared to


300,000, or 2% of revenue in the same period in 2009. The results reflect a net increase of


$800,000 from higher gross profit on higher revenue netted with a smaller increase in operating


costs. Other income was 87,000 versus 201,000 in the same period last year, reflecting lower


interest rates. The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%. Non-GAAP net income for


the second quarter was $1 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, compared to non-GAAP net income


of 414,000, or $0.02 per share in the second quarter of 2009, the difference coming from the


change in operating profit previously discussed.


Now let’s turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the quarter at 73 million,


approximately the same as last quarter. Approximately 4 million is classified as long-term


investment securities. Of the roughly 73 million in cash and investments on hand at the end of the


second quarter, the company had approximately 1 million in operating bank accounts; 49 million in


U.S. Federal Government Agency securities, either directly owned or through AAA money market


funds invested exclusively in them; 15 million in tax-exempt pre-refunded municipal notes, which


are backed by U.S. Treasury securities held in escrow; and 8 million in AA corporate bonds, or A-


1/P-1 corporate notes.


In the quarter, the company generated approximately 1.8 million of cash flow from operations, with


capital expenditures of $222,000. The company also repurchased 215,000 shares of its common