Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John W. Schoen — Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, PCTEL, Inc.
Martin H. Singer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PCTEL, Inc.
Jeffrey A. Miller — President-Connected Solutions, PCTEL, Inc.
Matt S. Robison — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL First Quarter 2014 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will open up the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now turn the call over to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Okay. Thank you for joining us today, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the first quarter of 2014. On today's call, will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; Jeff Miller, President, Connected Solutions; and I'm, John Schoen, the Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I'd like to read our Safe Harbor statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and features, product development, acquisition efforts and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.

Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related intellectual property. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.

Thanks, John, and good afternoon to all of you. Let me recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter. We achieved revenue of $23.7 million, a 6% decline from the first quarter of 2013. Gross profit margin was 41%. Operating margin from continuing operations was 5%. Net income was $914,000 or $0.05 per diluted share. Cash and investments were $56.2 million, a decrease of $1.7 million from the previous quarter, reflecting cash outlays from annual 2015 [ph] closing (0:02:20) dividends.

Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to John, who will discuss our financial performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on some of our business development, engineering and marketing efforts over the past quarter as well as some of our current activities. John.

Thank you, Marty. Our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income, excluding expenses for restructuring, gain or loss on sale of assets or legal settlements, stock-based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill and non-cash related income tax expense, provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors.

The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company's core results and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com, under Investor Relations. My discussions of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.

So let's turn to revenue. Revenues were $23.7 million, down 6% from $25.1 million in the same quarter last year. While revenue for the quarter was disappointing, we have a strong forecast for the second quarter and the full year, which we will discuss later in the call. I will now speak to the changes from the same period last year by reporting segment.

RF Solutions' revenue was $7.7 million, an increase of 34% from $5.8 million in the same quarter last year. Revenue was up significantly in both scanning receiver products and network engineering services. The increase in scanner revenue is attributed to continuing carrier spending increasing from 2013 levels. The network engineering services revenue growth is attributed to the rapid growth of in-building wireless network expansion.

Connected Solutions' revenues were $16 million in the quarter, a decrease of 17% from $19.4 million in the same period last year. Most of this decline was in core antennas. Marty will discuss the decline in his remarks later in the call.

Gross profit margin as a percent of sales was 41% in the quarter, representing a period-over-period improvement of 2% of sales. The increase for the quarter is attributed to the increased contribution of our relatively higher margin RF Solutions segment revenue as a percent of total revenue and gross margin in our acquired site solutions product portfolio.

RF Solutions' gross profit as a percent of sales was 58% in the quarter, representing a period-over-period decline of 5% of sales. The decrease is attributed to the increased contribution of our network engineering services revenue with its lower gross profit margin relative to scanners. As previously discussed, revenue in scanners and network engineering services were both up from last year, but network engineering service revenue was double $213,000 levels in the quarter.

Connected Solutions' gross profit as a percent of sales was 32% in the quarter, representing a period-over-period improvement of 1% of sales. While the segment experienced margin pressure from fixed cost spread over lower revenue, it was more than offset by improvements made through our elimination of unprofitable site solution products and customers, consolidating the site solution factory into the Bloomingdale facility and our supply chain improvements.

Now let's turn to non-GAAP operating expenses from continuing operations. Operating expenses were $8.5 million in the quarter, representing a $250,000 increase over the same period last year. There was a $700,000 increase in R&D, primarily attributed to the IBflex scanning receiver and SeeWave interference direction – detection R&D programs that was partially offset by $450,000 in lower SG&A costs.

Non-GAAP operating margin, as a percent of sales was 5% in the quarter compared to 6% in the same period last year. The increase in gross profit percent was more than offset by the increase in operating cost as a percent of revenue, due to a lower revenue in R&D scanning receiver program last year.

Other income. Non-GAAP other expenses was $23,000 in the current quarter as the amounts are largely interests on our investments and offset by miscellaneous expenses, the number will continue to be minimal going forward. Non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%, unchanged from 2013. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.05 in the quarter compared to $0.06 last year, resulting primarily from lower revenue.

Now, let's turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the first quarter at approximately $56.2 million or about $1.7 million lower than the previous quarter. Cash flow from operations was a negative $800,000, reflecting a $2.4 million pay-down of annual 2013 accruals. Capital spending was $620,000. The dividend paid was $739,000. And depreciation was $667,000.

For the quarter, free cash was a negative $1.4 million. We expect for the year that free cash flow will be in line with the 8% of revenue experienced in 2013, with operating cash flow at about 10.5% and capital spending at about 2.5%.

Now, I would like to discuss the guidance for the second quarter 2014. We anticipate second quarter revenue to be in a range of $27.0 million to $27.5 million, about 15% sequential in quarterly increase. Within the total revenue comparison, we expect sequentially or sequential quarterly increases of about 10% for RF Solutions and 15% to 20% for Connected Solutions.

Quarter-to-date shipments and backlog for the quarter is significantly improved to the same date last quarter particularly in Connected Solutions. Currently the visibility supports $2.5 million to $3 million sequential quarterly improvement for Connected Solutions.

Additionally, based on the recovery we're seeing in Connected Solutions, revenue combined with the growth of RF Solutions revenue, the company is comfortable with the high end of its previous revenue guidance for full-year calendar 2014 of $112 million to $114 million. Gross profit margin for both segments are expected to be the same as the quarter just ended, [ph] yielding (0:09:56) total gross profit percent of between 40% and 41%.

Operating costs for the quarter is expected to be at $8.5 million, about the same as the quarter just ended. The non-GAAP effective income tax rate is expected to remain unchanged going forward at 18%. The fully diluted share count in the first quarter is expected to be about – I'm sorry – in the second quarter is expected to be about 18.5 million shares.

That concludes the financial review. I would like to turn the call over to Marty for his summary highlights.

Thank you, John. Take a drink of water.

Yeah.

As John already discussed, our first quarter revenue fell short of expectations and [ph] incentive (0:10:37) sales through distributors were off significantly, weather delays pushed installations out to the second quarter, and a large systems integrator had unanticipated design change issues with mobile towers for a large government agency. While some have dismissed weather as an excuse for shortfall, I think that was real.

Company's lost installation and manufacturing days, completely perishable assets from December to February. Fortunately these shortfalls were partially offset by very strong performance in our growing site solutions products, our in-building engineering services and sales of our MX and EXflex product line. We anticipate continued strength in all of these areas and a significant recovery in our core antenna products in the current quarter. At this point, we project an increase of $3.3 million to $3.8 million in second quarter's sales compared to the first quarter.

Our confidence reflects momentum in both business segments. Connected Solutions received at the end of the first quarter an 18 months blanket order for 7,500 rail wayside antennas, which indicates our focus on providing site solutions into this market segment was justified. Investors will recall that transportation and transit represents one of our key vertical market. We shipped over 200 advanced wireless service site upgrades in the first quarter and we anticipate a stronger funnel this quarter.

Our success in AWS, Advanced Wireless Spectrum or [ph] system bands (0:12:06) resulted in new small cell site opportunity. We recently shipped eight [ph] OEM (0:12:11) models for this [ph] connected (0:12:13) site solution and expect significant sales will occur in the second half of the year. This area is one reason that we expect $35 million in revenue in the first half and $45 million to $48 million in the second half for Connected Solutions.

Connected Solutions has also done well with our traditional in-building antenna programs. We had significant wins with Aruba and Extreme Enterasys. While other OEMs had a lower than expected demand for our antennas, we began to see renewed momentum near the end of the quarter that has continued into the current quarter. Finally, we have seen strength in our growing precision agriculture GPS antenna products.

We also had a very strong product introduction quarter, we launched our new 4G in-building antennas for LTE and Wi-Fi and our new multiband mobile antennas. This product portfolio includes dual LTE MIMO antennas, Wi-Fi and high-bandwidth GPS antennas for fleet applications. All of these were unveiled at the recent IWCE Industry Conference and Exhibits.

We also announced and launched our new access point ceiling enclosure solution for Aruba Access Points. And we began production of our in-building PIM rated antennas. Over the next three quarters, we will fill the complete PIM rated product line and address evolving requirements in DAS and small cell applications.

Connected Solutions also includes our mobile tower product line. We are pleased to report that we received a significant carrier order for Q2 delivery and we have already begun a separate delivery to a government agency that will continue during the second quarter. We now distribute two distinct product lines in various markets.

Some of you have asked about the fit of a mobile tower product line in the Connected Solutions portfolio. The mobile towers we offer are an extension of our site solutions capability. When equipped with cabinets and antenna mounts, they are used as communication platforms for SCADA applications and most notably in oil and gas communication.

As well as we're rapidly deploying communications for disaster recovery. When equipped with fuel cells, generators and [ph] wider rays, (0:14:23) another variance used for wide-area lighting application to support 24-hour construction for open pit mining end users. In these scenarios, we provide the system engineering and the solution for appropriate equipment loading on to the trailer and model the loading factors of the same load being lifted to confirm that the tower is suitable for the end user application.

We were delighted with RFS' continued strong performance. Our network engineering services group which focuses on in-building network design, optimization and commissioning, [ph] turned into (0:14:58) seventh consecutive quarterly sales record. And we anticipate continued strong growth in this area. As an example of ongoing activity, we provided services for interesting and high value venues.

We did the site surveys, commissioning and acceptance testing for several NASCAR speedways. We did the same for a Super Bowl venue, a Final Four venue and the U.S. Open. In parallel, our services and product teams jointly [indiscernible] (0:15:24) article published in a leading in-building engineering magazine titled DAS Testing for maximizing quality of service.

Our focus on engineering in-building networks was reinforced by two new product announcements, our new IBflex and the CW Transmitter. Our engineering service team and operators globally now have an end-to-end RF testing solution. The CW Transmitter supports up the four transmissions, which can represent different operators at different bands.

The transmitted signals are captured during a walk test using the battery operated IBflex connected to our OEM tools such as [indiscernible] (0:16:01). Using this RF data, integrators and operators can access coverage needs and fine-tune their propagation models. IBflex is also unique in that with a flick of a switch it can be used in full-speed mode to collect macro data during traditional drive testing.

We also released as we discussed last quarter, our hand held interference finding tool SeeWave. SeeWave incorporates directional antennas, touch screen interface and a industry proven scanning receiver, to help operators find troublesome interference sources. The solution is unique, in that any customer that currently has a PCTEL scanning receiver can simply purchase a SeeWave as an upgrade to add interference finding capabilities. We expect the IBflex scanning receiver, the new SeeWave interference [ph] detector (0:16:50) and the SeeGull CW Transmitter system to provide important new sources of product revenues in 2014 and 2015.

We continue to explore a variety of expansion opportunities in both product and engineering service arenas; we want to build upon our core teams in in-building, verticals, the growth of small cell, the demand for greater bandwidth and regional diversity. We'll keep our shareholders informed about our progress in these areas. Over the next eight weeks, we'll be presenting at R.W. Baird and B. Riley conferences, actually at this point it's over the next four weeks.

Investors and analysts have and will have several opportunities to see our products and interact with our team at a variety of industry events. The full list of these shows can be found at end of the written transcript on our website. We look forward to seeing you at our upcoming investor presentation as well as at our [ph] boost (0:17:50) at these industry events.

Jeff Miller, the President of Connected Solutions has joined John and me today to answer questions that you might have regarding Connected Solutions and our confidence regarding our 2014 forecast. We have set aside 30 minutes for your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And your first question comes from the line of Matt Robison.

Thanks for taking the question. First, how should we think about the timing of the catch up for the revenue beyond the second quarter?

Well, I think as we said, we are looking to do about $50 million, $64 million split or $51 million, $63 million split. So we see having a pretty strong quarter in the second quarter, but a very strong second half driven by three factors. Number one, as we said, we have been successful in shipping about 200 AWS site solution kits, but we've just now shipped eight prototypes for the small cell kits. We'll see some of that this quarter, Matt, but the bulk of those sales would be in the third and fourth quarter and they [ph] won't (0:19:21) be reasonably significant. It more than justifies the confidence in the $50 million, $64 million split first half, second half. And I see Q3 and Q4 as potentially equivalent maybe a little bit more strength in the fourth quarter, but I think there will be a pretty level. So, Jeff, do you want to comment on the Connected Solutions?

No, [indiscernible] (0:19:47) I think you hit it on the head there. We're looking for a strong second half driven by the small cell deployments. These are fairly ASP type of kits. So the revenue accumulates pretty quickly with those type of [ph] down (0:20:01) volumes that you pick up on the sales.

Right. And then second thing, I said there were there factors, Matt. The second factor is network engineering services. So as John indicated that just continues to grow. The only thing holding us back is hiring. I don't think I broke up the run rate, because I don't want to start getting segment within segment reporting, but we are essentially seeing a quintupling of the revenues this year versus the run rate when we bought them. And we're going to have a extremely strong second half in network engineering services. We just added quite a few guys [ph] now in (0:20:45) the Melbourne operation and added some additional sales and project management strengths.

The third reason is that in addition to our primary flagship scanning receiver products, we have just released the IBflex, the continuous wave transmitter system that we're developing a distributor agreement with one of the really larger distributors in the U.S. as well as our direct sales, and the SeeWave interference detector. None of these products, because they weren't released, contributed anything in the first quarter. There will be very little contribution in second quarter. All of the contribution will be in the second half.

So those three factors, site solutions from Jeff, the network engineering services down in Melbourne that are best managers and the three new products which will all be revenue generating this year, will create an imbalance in our first half, second half that we normally don't show to you guys. I think over our last several years we've been pretty reliably 48%, 52% – 47%, 53% at the high side, this is a different type of year.

Okay. You mentioned also that the OEMs start to pick up, is that not nearly as significant, I guess? You didn't kind of include it in your factors there, so I presume it's not that significant.

You want me to?

Yeah, sure Jeff.

So, yes, a number of OEM projects have started picking up. Marty commented about Enterasys Extreme, we're seeing the Wi-Fi access point business starting to recover a bit here in the second quarter already. There is a number of projects that are starting to deliver. So the OEMs even on the GPS timing side of things were solved in Q1 and they are coming back to life here in the second quarter.

We are a $1.9 million ahead of where we were same time last year in terms of backlog – current quarter backlog and shipments. So it's – even the distribution has come back pretty strong already here. So it was across the board decline. It looks like it's a – we're getting across the board rebound here as well, so that's why we're pretty optimistic about the step up in the second quarter.

I would say that you are right, Matt, though, the OEM rebound, I would put fourth on the list as the reason for the first half and second half difference. I think the OEM rebound is going to really help explain the difference between the first quarter and the second quarter.

Yeah.

Okay. Now, two more and then I'll let somebody else ask a question. So, John, anything that's going to keep you from recovering the bottom line that you – head way that you lost in the first quarter?

No, [ph] I think as (0:23:58) we just talked about, we are more confident in replacing the revenue on the top side.

Yeah.

And there – and as we indicated we think we're actually may run over [ph] that. You've got us in for 112, (0:24:07) which was the lower end of our guidance; we're more comfortable with the higher end of our guidance.

Yeah. And I will mention this, since this is a public call and it's not inside and it's soon going to be in our proxy, but we were concerned about that a little bit, Matt, in the sense that some of the site solution revenue that we're going to pick up is a lower gross margin revenue than some of Jeff's core antennas. And so we did as we adjusted the contribution of that kind of revenue mix to any potential attainment of bonus plans.

And so if you look at our short-term incentive plan, it has two variables, revenue and earnings. And we're essentially only giving half weight to lower margin revenue. So we protect against any sort of EPS erosion that bonus payments might make. And so I thought that was a good move. John, [ph] talked (0:25:15) that early on in our analysis of how the year was going. And I think it was the right thing for us to do.

Yeah, received that detail. Then the other one item I wanted you to comment on, Marty, is, on the scanning receivers, can you give us some flavor for network deployment, what you are seeing from a regional standpoint? There was a lot of excitement over China last year and there hasn't been a heck of a lot of information about it, you guys have talked about it, but the industry [indiscernible] ( 0:25:50)

Yeah, well, we are actually – if I look across the board and I just go quarter-by-quarter for my sales guys, the guys who are on the strongest position right now are the sales executive selling into China. And so, we are seeing a rollout of our scanning receivers into various provinces. It's not just China Mobile, but also Mobile Telecom and we're seeing some nice sale through on some of the switching OEMs there.

I think it is a little slower than anticipated, not certainly slow with respect to our revenue attainment, but I think you'll see some strength in the third and fourth quarter. I will make one point though; to the extent that some of the handset guys are behind, it's not necessarily bad for scanning receivers. Scanning receivers will stand then as a surrogate for [indiscernible] (0:26:47) give visibility of how network is performing. And so, I think we'd be reasonable in China.

Other regions, I'll tell you what we're seeing. We're seeing LTE pick up some momentum in Europe. We are seeing a lot of in-building activity in the U.S. There's a couple of tenders out right now for in-building scanning receiver tools. And I think our IBflex came out just in time. I think the fact that it's a little bit of a greener product, with less energy consumption, reusable batteries, batteries that can be taken on a plane, that you have these two modes and it allows our customers to use in both for in-building and outdoor. It's going to be very effective in this in-building market.

I do think regionally, I have seen a little bit of [ph] a lull (0:27:44) in Latin America, the big push in Brazil for a lot of the telecom build-out to the World Cup, the Olympics. There was huge activity in 2012 and 2013 in terms of test and measurement and so on. That seems to be a little bit slower or at least as judged by the guys we sold scanning receivers to. I don't know if that answers your question.

It's great, I appreciate [ph] all of that. (0:28:14)

Well I'm surprised you didn't ask about the most important question, we actually put something in the script designed for you, Matt.

I was going to ask you about road courses, you might [indiscernible] (0:28:23). [indiscernible]

(0:28:25) the NASCAR. We are going to ask you if you'd like to do a tour of our installations and engineering work of those NASCAR raceways.

Absolutely.

Okay, [indiscernible] (0:28:36). [indiscernible]

(0:28:36).

We'll give you the detail, talk to you later. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes the line of Mike Crawford.

At B. Riley & Company. Thanks you. Marty, in Europe, the LTE pick up, I presume you're seeing that in Northern Europe and not much activity in the South or is there any difference there?

Northern, that's absolutely correct.

Yeah. Thank you. List your engineering talent in German town that build the scan receivers and related products. In the past you've worked for other things to try to get these guys to do greater and lesser degrees of success. Meanwhile, you have partners like Lightbridge that are changing the way that they test networks and doing maybe less drive testing and more automated testing. Is there something you can do there to really increase your addressable market on that side of the business or how would you comment?

Yeah, I think there is, I mean more and more we're looking for ways to combine our data with data from what we would call crowd-based, cloud-based data, where you have applications on handsets that may be a lower caliber of data, but still useful in creating an overall profile and pumping that into various post processing tools.

So we certainly are examining that. We're looking at alternative ways of transporting scanning receivers and positioning them. So that data can be collected without necessarily the type of extensive drive testing that has been done. But really important in all of this, I think, is lowering the cost of capital and the necessary testing that's done. You look at in-build, that's not a matter of drive testing, it's a matter of [ph] pulling (0:30:52) data on a regular basis and walking where necessary.

And what we believe, and you mentioned the engineering talent we have in German town, what we believe is by lowering the cost of what we've done with IBflex and allowing people to personalize that product as they need to test different types of constructs like MIMO or different types of spectrum, we've made this a much more favorable economic proposition for engineering firms like Lightbridge.

They make one capital investment in a basic platform and then they can pump in the variations that they need over the Internet and we even permit them to rent or lease that capability on a pay-per-use base. So, another thing is coming out with new test tools like the continuous wave transmitter for taking all sorts of measurements in a very simple way in in-building.

Finally, a lot of performance issues literally are not related to coverage and capacity, they are related to interference. If you may have seen the article in the Wall Street Journal, where the FCC is intrusively going around and literally knocking on people's doors, and saying, you have something in this business or house that's interfering with the cellular network.

And it can be ballast from lighting, it can be baby monitors, it can be wireless headsets that type of interference is reducing throughput by up to 50% in LTE networks. And so in coming out with a product like the SeeWave interference detector, this is not a expensive drive test approach to improving performance, this is hunt, detect and locate in a very efficient way. And I'd be surprised if your friends at Lightbridge are not going to be all over that product.

Okay, thanks, Marty. And then getting back to something you discussed earlier about the wireless access points and maybe that business is going to pick up a little bit. Is that related to Qualcomm's MU-MIMO effort or is that just one part of a larger hole?

I'm going to let Jeff answer that.

Are you talking about MIMO MU, the multi user MIMO 802.11ac.

Yes?

Yeah, so there's – those really haven't hit the streets yet, but they are pushing those chip sets into the access points. They were starting to see some [ph] design (0:33:46) requests. Most of what we're seeing is really just [ph] raw (0:33:49) 802.11 and MIMO type of solutions, six-port, four-port. And we're seeing – there's Enterasys as we noted, Aruba and Cisco are all, I think, [indiscernible] (0:34:00) same business along the way there. So MU mobile user is a little bit away still at this point. And it's really the traditional MIMO [ph] 802.11n (0:34:09) that's driving the business right now.

Okay. Thanks, Jeff. Thank you.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

And there are no further questions. I will now introduce Mr. Marty Singer for his closing remarks.

Thank you. I appreciate the introduction. And let me just thank all of you for participating in this call. We look forward to updating you at our next quarterly earnings conference call. And I look forward to seeing all of you at our upcoming industry events and the investor conferences, which we will be attending. Thank you very much.

And this does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.