corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL third


quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later,


we will open up the call for questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now turn the call over to Jack Seller, Director of Marketing. You may begin.


Jack Seller, Marketing and Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, October 28, 2010, for the PCTEL financial results conference call


for the third quarter 2010. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO and John


Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and product


development, and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business, are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties,


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless product business, implement new


technologies and obtain protection for the related IP.


Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is


contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim


any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin H. Singer, PhD, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon to all of you. For those of you who have not had a chance to


read our press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter. We


achieved revenue of $17.3 million, an increase of 26% over the third quarter 2009. Non-GAAP


gross profit margin was 41%. The decline in gross margin reflected a higher mix of antenna


revenues to total revenues than we have had in the past, sluggish scanning receiver sales related


to LTE demand, and pricing pressure in a few key markets.


Non-GAAP operating margin was 2%. Non-GAAP net income was $315,000, or $0.02 per diluted


share. And cash and investments were $71.7 million. We generated $1.2 million of cash and


investments before buying back approximately 376,000 shares for $2.3 million during the quarter.


With that, I’d like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss our financial


performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on some of our business development,


engineering, and marketing efforts over the past quarter, as well as some of our current activities.


John?
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty, and good afternoon to everyone. Our investors will note that the company


presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that the


presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income, excluding restructuring charges and


non-cash-based expense, including stock and stock option-based compensation, amortization and


impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or losses


on the sale of product lines and related note receivable, and non-cash based income tax expense


provide meaningful supplemental info to both management and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation


to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with


the SEC. The release can also be found on our website. My discussion of results will be based on


our non-GAAP financial results.


So let’s turn to revenue. Third quarter 2010 revenue was 17.3 million. This compares to 13.7 million


in the third quarter of 2009, an increase of 26%. The improved sales reflected significantly stronger


volume in our targeted vertical markets for antenna products. Antenna sales improved to both our


large distributors and to OEM resellers of our antennas. Scanning receiver revenue saw a modest


decline in sales through its OEM test and measurement resellers, such as Ascom, Anite, and


SwissQual, primarily related to the delay in commercial deployment of LTE.


Now, let’s turn to gross profit margin. Non-GAAP gross profit margin for the third quarter was 41%,


versus 47% in the same period last year. Approximately 4% of the decrease related to the stronger


revenue performance of our lower-margin antenna products relative to our higher-margin scanning


products, with the remaining 2% as a result of pricing pressure experienced in the OEM scanning


receiver channel. Marty will comment further on the scanning receiver outlook in his remarks.


Now, let’s turn to operating expenses. They were $6.8 million in the quarter, an increase of 730,000


from the same period last year. R&D increased approximately 260,000, related to investments in


scanning receiver development, approximately a third of which is related to integration of the


acquisition of the Ascom scanning receiver business, which was completed in the quarter just


ended. In addition to the integration expense, we have continued to invest very heavily in our


scanning receiver platform that is now in beta stage and being evaluated by key customers. We


anticipate that this investment will moderate over the next three quarters.


The $470,000 increase in SG&A expense reflected the investment in ongoing Sparco sales


operations, our investments in reaching specific markets, and an increase in sales commissions


related to higher revenue. This investment has been extremely worthwhile. Although the increased


antenna sales carry with them a lower gross margin than scanning receivers, the investment in our


vertical market strategy has resulted in significantly higher antenna revenue than we experienced


last year. We will continue to invest in these markets, most likely elaborating upon initial


investments in China and specific verticals where we have enjoyed some success.


Non-GAAP operating income in the third quarter was 307,000 or 2% of revenue, compared to


442,000 or 3% of revenue in the same period in ‘09. The results reflect a net decrease of 135,000


from higher gross profit on higher revenue, but netted with a larger increase in operating costs.


Other income was 77,000 versus 375,000 in the same period last year. Last year’s results included


a one-time $230,000 gain on the liquidation of our position in the Columbia Strategic Asset Fund.


The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%.