Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John W. Schoen — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, PCTEL, Inc.
Martin H. Singer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PCTEL, Inc.
Matthew S. Robison — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will open the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now turn the call over to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you for joining us today, November 5, 2012 PCTEL financial results conference call for the third quarter 2012. On today's call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and I am John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to read our Safe Harbor statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and product development, and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.

Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our wireless product business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP.

Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today, and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.

Thank you, John, and good afternoon. For those of you who have not had a chance to read our press release, I'd like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter.

We achieved revenue of $25.9 million, an increase of 33% over the third quarter of 2011. Gross profit margin was 39%. Operating profit was 9%. Net income was $2 million or $0.11 per diluted share. And cash and investments were $48 million.

Now I'd like to turn the call back over to John Schoen, who'll discuss our financial performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on some of our business development, engineering, and marketing efforts over the past quarter as well as some of our current activities. John?

Thank you, Marty. Our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of gross profit, operating profit, and net income, excluding restructuring charges and non-cash based expense including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company's acquisitions, gains or losses on the sale of product lines and related note receivable, and non-cash based income tax expense provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors.

The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company's core results and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My discussion of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.

Let's turn to revenues. Third quarter 2012 revenue was $25.9 million, an increase of 33% from the same period last year. The acquisitions of Envision Wireless in October 2011, and TelWorx in 2012, account for 25% growth with the remaining 8% coming from our existing products. Existing antenna and site solution product revenue was higher than the same period last year across both distribution and OEM channels.

Year-over-year scanning receiver and engineering service revenue was lower. This reflects carrier spending delays and a general downturn in cellular infrastructure spending. While scanning receiver and engineering services revenue was lower than last year, for both the current quarter and September year-to-date, the company saw a 19% sequential revenue increase in the third quarter compared to the second quarter for that product line.

Now let's turn to gross profit. Non-GAAP gross profit margin for the third quarter was 39% as compared to 48% in the same period last year. The change reflects scanning receiver and engineering service revenue comprising a smaller portion of the revenue mix with our higher margins relative to antenna and site solution products.

Now let's turn to non-GAAP operating expenses, which were $7.7 million in the quarter, an increase of approximately $200,000 from the same period last year. The increase reflects a $700,000 addition of operating costs for the Envision and TelWorx acquisitions, partially offset by a $500,000 decrease primarily related to the ending of the initial MX scanning receiver R&D investment and lower variable compensation expenses. The company's variable compensation plan focuses on growth in both revenue and earnings. As a result, variable compensation has been lower.

Non-GAAP operating income in the third quarter was $2.4 million or 9% of revenue, compared to $1.9 million or 10% of revenue in the same period last year; the decline in gross profit margin percent being partially offset by leveraging of operating costs over higher revenue.

Non-GAAP other income was $11,000 in the third quarter. As the amounts are largely interest on our investments, the number will continue to be small in the current interest rate environment. Non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%, unchanged from prior periods. Non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $0.11 per share compared to $0.10 per share in the same period last year. The increase is attributed to higher operating profit on higher revenue.

Now, let's turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the quarter at approximately $48 million; about $18 million lower than the previous quarter. Approximately $250,000 is classified as long-term investment securities with maturities ranging between 13 months and 24 months. In the quarter, the company generated $536,000 of cash from operations. Depreciation was $633,000.

During the quarter, non-cash and investment working capital, receivables, inventories and liabilities increased working capital approximately $4.8 million. Half of the increase relates to the acquisition of TelWorx in July. The other half reflects the timing of sales. During the third quarter, shipments in the last month of the quarter were higher than historical levels causing accounts receivable days outstanding to expand.

Capital expenditures in the quarter were $967,000 or 3.7% of revenue, which is within our long-term historical spending pattern of 3% to 4% of revenue. During the quarter, the company used $16.5 million of cash and investments for the acquisition of TelWorx, $800,000 for the purchase of the last 30% of PCTEL Secure that it did not already own, and $552,000 for its regular cash dividend in the quarter of $0.03 per common share.

Now, I would like to discuss guidance for the fourth quarter 2012. We anticipate fourth quarter revenue to be in a range of $26.5 million to $27.5 million. Gross profit is expected to be in a range of 39% to 41%. The change in gross profit percent is consistent with the company's changing revenue profile.

Non-GAAP R&D and SG&A are expected to be about $8.1 million, approximately $400,000 higher than the quarter just ended due to seasonality. Other income is estimated to be about $25,000 in the quarter.

As a reminder, there is no more elimination of non-controlling interest for PCTEL Secure as we owned 100% of the entity effective July 2. The non-GAAP effective income tax rate is expected to remain unchanged going forward at 18%. The fully diluted share count in the fourth quarter is expected to be about 17.8 million shares.

That concludes the financial review. I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for his summary comments.

Thanks, John. We had a very full quarter. Just to recap, we bought out the remaining interest in PCTEL Secure, successfully transitioned to a new enterprise management system, and acquired TelWorx. This new capability expands our portfolio of RF ancillary products services and kitted solutions. During all of this activity, we turned in our best revenue quarter as a wireless technology company. We also completed the renovation of our Tianjin facility.

As John mentioned, our scanning receiver and engineering services product line represents about 20% of our revenue. We finally saw some signs of recovery in scanning receiver sales despite continued delays in the deployment of LTE in China and Europe. We brought in our largest scanning receiver order of the year $1.3 million that we began to deliver in the third quarter and that will be completed this quarter.

We also completed LTE upgrades for over 100 scanning receivers for a major U.S. operator continuing our dominance in the North American LTE market. With respect to engineering services, we realized sequential growth and contracted with General Motors and AT&T for testing in-building wireless networks for factories across the U.S.

With the acquisition of TelWorx, our antenna and site solution products now comprise about 80% of our revenue. When we acquired MAXRAD antenna products back in 2004, they were shipping approximately $18 million of antenna products for the entire year. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we have more than quadrupled the size of the product line.

The strong quarter reflected significant orders from QUALCOMM for Omnitrax antennas, medical card MIMO antennas to Kaiser, and strong sales of custom Wi-Fi antennas for Cisco's [ph] Jackhammer (11:21) base station used for offloading and smart grid applications. Last quarter, we released a unique module for this strand mounted access point that permits point-to-point microwave backhaul.

In addition to this current business, we developed important new business opportunities. We completed trials with a major railroad for LTE GPS wayside antennas and secured enclosure orders related to Disney properties and continue to work closely with AT&T on large public venue deployments.

We released our new GPS multi-band antenna to a major OEM in the fleet management and refrigerator transport industry, which should result in over 10,000 units shipped annually.

Finally, we secured a new OEM customer with the design win for our integrated MIMO antennas. We cannot disclose the customer's name at this time, but this continues our success in this space. As you know, we currently ship to Cisco and BelAir Ericsson in this important vertical market.

We've made good progress in integrating TelWorx and Tim Scronce's team into PCTEL Connected Solutions. We have executed on our plans and deepen our relationships with customers in key verticals and our ability to deliver complete solutions. In the past quarter, we won a contract to provide disaster recovery mobile tower populated with RF components to a Tier 1 wireless carrier.

We delivered channel banks as part of a broad SCADA solution for southern companies and design and delivered four new kits for LTE and infrastructure opportunities in the U.S. We've also leveraged our e-commerce capabilities that we obtained as part of the acquisition. CLECs, data centers, and private network operators utilize e-commerce capabilities to get access to internally developed and procure products from our Connected Solutions division.

We've been awarded new virtual warehouse and logistics contracts and they procure direct e-commerce channel funnel products directly into our core antenna business for resale to customers as part of a broad solution. I already mentioned the successful transition to our new Oracle ERP system and upgrades to our Tianjin facility.

With respect to product development, I'm pleased to report that we continue to push the envelope with our technology leading scanning receiver product line. We released FDD LTE MIMO model capability on our MX platform, a new and more cost effective version of Clarify, the NGx, and we've expanded the RF band different frequencies supported on our LTE EX scanning receiver.

With respect to antennas and RF ancillary products, we shipped new prototype panel antennas to one of our largest OEM customers and we released two ultra-wideband 4.4 gigahertz to 6 gigahertz sector antennas that cover a NATO frequency band and other commercial bands for broadband access applications, including cellular offloading. This antenna has been recently approved by a large defense contractor. Our roadmap includes a new 1.4 gigahertz panel antenna for smart grid applications in Europe. We anticipate success for this product in both utilities and power distribution applications.

Later this month, we will be completing our beta test of ProsettaCore 2.0. That release improves up on the delivery mechanism for establishing the ProsettaCore kernel on the target smartphones and tablets. We are testing this concept with potential target customers and systems integrators.

I'll be traveling to China a few weeks to obtain market and customer based information regarding the deployment of TD-LTE and to me with both antenna and scanning receiver customers. We will also be meeting with our contract manufacturers in assessing the readiness of our Tianjin factory to take on more of our production. Although we will not host a booth at Mobile World Congress, a few of us will attend the conference and we'd be happy to meet with any of you who make the trip.

That concludes our prepared remarks. We have set aside 30 minutes for the question-and-answer session. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] And we do have a question from the line of Matt Robison with Wunderlich Securities.

Hey. Thanks for taking the question. John, a couple for you first. I got the back loaded message, but what was the third quarter linearity like?

We only did about 16% of our revenue in the first month of the quarter, so about $4.2 million, which kind of tees off the quarter. I can report that we're already in October $4 million ahead of that pace than we were in July. And I'm already a $1.5 million in free cash flow ahead of where I was at the same date in the last quarter.

Okay. So like 40% or 50%, more than 50% in the third month then.

Yeah it was up – just about 50%, a little over.

Okay. So linearity this quarter, you think it's going to be a little bit more equal weighted between the three months?

Yeah. I've already done 30% in the first month, where I only did 16 points in the first month last quarter.

Yeah.

So – and so basically the way you'd view it is I'm $4 million ahead on billings that I can collect in the quarter, July versus October.

Right.

And I'm already $1.5 million of that ahead. So I think I'm going to get most of that money back, the cash back.

So, we could see operating cash flow of something like $3.5 million, $3.7 million something like that...?

Yeah. $4 million is not out of the question.

Okay. Now, are we done with the CapEx spend now? Is TelWorx on the ERP system?

I'm sorry. You're talking about the new ERP system. Yeah, the CapEx pretty much done.

He's talking about TelWorx, sorry.

Yeah. It was kind of a two...

Yeah.

...two-part question. Is TelWorx on it already or you've got to spend more...?

Yeah. We would plan on putting TelWorx up sometime in 2013. But the CapEx associated with the ERP system is pretty well been digested now through Q3. So, I mean, a CapEx number in the $700,000 and the $800.000 range for Q4 is right at that 3% number.

So a repeat of the third quarter then?

Yeah. I mean, maybe $100,000 to $200,000 less.

Okay. And so that's kind of the way we should look at it going into next year?

Yes. Basically, it'd be about – if you budget 3%, your model would be okay.

Okay. Marty, I might have missed it, but so I apologize to make you repeat yourself, but I don't recall hearing much of an update on PCTEL Secure other than buying out all the [ph] inputs (18:28)...

I was talking so fast. You can be excused for missing it. So what I said was that we are in fact initiating today an active beta test of release 2.0 down in Germantown. I'm very pleased about this, Matt. What we did is, we see some potential for ProsettaCore not just as a security product, but perhaps as the implementation of some management information on devices and release 2.0 focuses on these new unlocked and open tablets and phones.

And so we have an active beta test now down in Germantown. We expect that beta test to run for about a month. And during that period we're demonstrating the system to several potential customers. We have a set of meetings this week as a matter of fact. And the product looks good. So our challenge, of course, here has never been the technology. It's always been the distribution channel and the path into our target market group.

So this is for the Jelly Bean version of Android, is that right?

Yes. I mean, I can't get over the fact that Jelly Bean is the name. But basically we're doing the beta test with products like the Nexus handset from Samsung, which are unlocked and open and based on this new Jelly Bean operating system. And what it means to us and what it means to the delivery of the product is that you can deliver our server and what we call an image generator to an IT department.

And that IT department could either be defense or government related or it could be enterprise related, and you can just download the security solution or the management solution directly to that tablet or handset rather than PCTEL having to have an arrangement with the handset manufacturer of actually getting into the manufacturing process to insert the kernel. So we think that this release is much more robust from a distribution perspective.

Yeah. Sure. When you say beta that usually implies a customer. Do you mean – does that interpret...

No, no, no. This is a beta test product. We're using our own people as the customers on this.

So it's really a late stage prototype?

I wouldn't call it a prototype. We had the prototype in August. So we have a completed server, a completed kernel, and I think after four to five weeks of this, we'd be able to license this directly to a customer.

Okay. So ready to license during the current quarter and --

If we are successful in attracting a customer.

Yeah. Okay. What's the – can you provide some commentary on the scanners at this point in the – and what the industry dynamics are since we're sort of we're many months passed some of the past constraints, it seems?

Yeah, I think there are three positive forces and one negative force. The three positive forces is that we see TD-LTE opening up in China. We are past this failed merger of AT&T and T-Mobile and we see LTE rapidly expanding in the U.S. And finally, we see some new regional markets opening up like Africa and South America's becoming more active, particularly in Brazil. So we see all of that as quite positive.

On the negative side, there has been consolidation in our customer base. So Anite acquired its own scanning receiver from Andrew, which is now CommScope, which is now Carlyle. And then Rohde & Schwarz acquired SwissQual. And so while those two OEMs are still customers, there's no question that that's a negative dynamic for us. So we have focused more and more our effort on acquiring additional OEM customers and increasing our direct sales.

How's that gone for you?

I think that's working out reasonably well as evidenced by the growth in the last quarter. Huawei has emerged as a consistent customer. There's another OEM that we now have a contract with that we can't tell our shareholders about quiet yet, but we will be able to in the first quarter of next year. And we're seeing some additional business with Dingli out of China. And then we're doing a pretty good job now of attracting direct demand from some of the major OEM infrastructure suppliers such as Ericsson.

Okay. Thanks.

Yep.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Mike Crawford with B. Riley & Company.

Thanks. Can you talk about what you think the target business model is now that scan receivers is probably not a growing business and antennas and enclosures are – antennas, I guess, the margins would be improving there given the focus on more verticals, but it sounds like we have a higher revenue number and potential growth yet and higher operating income but lower gross margin. Is 40% kind of the level you're shooting for, or are you looking for improvement there?

We're looking for improvement there. Let me just mention a couple things about the third quarter that were a little bit unusual. We had very, very strong business with two of our major OEMs, Motorola and Cisco. And those high volume products, particularly the ones that we manufacture out of Tianjin are the lowest gross margin products that we have in our entire antenna product portfolio.

We believe that we'll have continued strength in that area, but we don't think we're going to have that mix in all subsequent quarters. It was an unusual quarter in that respect, Mike. So that was a positive from revenue, but it was definitely that product mix was a drag and we actually do believe there's some ways that we can address gross margin within those product lines. So that's one issue.

The second issue is our acquisition of TelWorx, which is now Connected Solution had more of their procurement business in the third quarter then their kitting business. We anticipate a greater percentage of kitting going forward. And we also think that we're going to see some pretty strong power related business that has strong margins associated with it. And then finally, although scanning receivers definitely did decline, we see some opportunities for growth and a little bit higher of quarterly run rate for that area.

And then finally, even though – let me say it this way. NES, our Network Engineering Services, is lower on the gross margin but its bottom line is quite good, because of all of your costs are above the line. So I think that it would be fair to a target, 40% to 41% in your model and assume that we'd have a little bit better result on gross margin we had in the third quarter.

Okay. Thanks, Marty. And then given that the scan receiver business is really hasn't been a growth market for a number of years, not expected to be one yet does have these high margin. There's been consolidation in this space. Is that something you would have considered selling if you got the right price forward.

We haven't really had that as an active discussion. For one thing, Mike, as you know, it has been a long road to get to being over $100 million company. We felt for a long time it really doesn't make sense to be public and once you have a path to get to 150 million. So we would be reluctant to divest that much revenue.

The other aspect of course about the scanning receiver business is that it really permits us to be involved directly with our carriers and understand their problems, which open up a variety of opportunities in connected solutions and actually a little bit even in antennas.

And finally we think that there are some potential technology opportunities that could help us grow the scanning receivers and we're working on some ideas related to our PCTEL Secure business and specifically utilizing the kernel that we use to monitor the phone for security breaches for the purpose of monitoring other aspects of the phone that would yield some network performance information. And – so I would say right now rather than looking at divestiture of that business we are looking at ways that we could change the growth trajectory.

Okay. Thanks. And then final question relates to PCTEL Secure. I know this would be difficult to answer because of the shared resources in Germantown. But what level license revenue, license and/or royalty revenue do you need next year to have that business contribute positive cash flow to PCTEL? And do you expect that to happen or do expect 2013 to also be a continued investment year for PCTEL Secure?

I think the 2013 is a decision point for us. We'll either get $1.5 million in licensing revenues or perhaps higher or we will spend – we will change our spending plan dramatically so that PCTEL Secure will not be a drag on our earnings.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

[Operator Instructions] And we seem to have no further questions. I'll now turn the call back over to Marty Singer for closing remarks.

Thank you very much for joining us this afternoon. We hope to see many of you at upcoming conferences and at Barcelona in the first quarter, and we look forward to updating you on the fourth quarter sometime in early March of 2013. Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation. You may all disconnect.