corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


John W. Schoen
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Secretary


Martin H. Singer
 
– Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & GM


Other Participants


Matthew S. Robison
 
– Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.


Mike Crawford MBA
 
– Senior Analyst, B. Riley & Co.


Will V. Power
 
– Senior Research Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Equity Capital Markets


Orin Hirschman MBA
 
– Manager, AIGH Investment Partners LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL First


Quarter 2011 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


open up the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I’ll now turn the call over to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.


John W. Schoen, Chief Financial Officer & Secretary


Thank you for joining us today, April 27, 2011, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for


the first quarter 2011. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO, and I am John


Schoen, the Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to read our Safe Harbor statement. Today’s call will contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Comments concerning our


future financial performance, new products and product development, and expectations regarding


the future growth of our Wireless RF business, are forward-looking statements within the meaning


of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties,


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new


technologies and obtain protection for the related IP. Additional discussion of these and other


factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings.


These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information


to reflect subsequent events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin H. Singer, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & GM


Thank you, John, and good afternoon. For those of you who have not had a chance to read our


press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter. We achieved


revenue of $18.2 million, an increase of 17% over the first quarter of 2010. Our non-GAAP gross
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


profit margin was 45%. Our non-GAAP operating margin was 4%. Our non-GAAP net income was


$832,000, or $0.05 per diluted share. Cash and investments were $68 million.


I’m going to turn the call back over to John Schoen who will now discuss our financial performance


in some detail. Later, I will comment on some of our business development, engineering, and


marketing efforts over the past quarter as well as some of our current activities. John?


John W. Schoen, Chief Financial Officer & Secretary


Thank you, Marty. Our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial


information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of gross profit,


operating profit, and net income excluding restructuring charges and non-cash based expense


including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible


assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or losses on the sale of product


lines and related note receivable, and non cash based income tax expense provide meaningful


supplemental information to both management and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation


to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with


the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My


discussion of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


So let’s start with revenue. First quarter 2011 revenue was $18.2 million. This compares to $15.6


million in the first quarter of ‘10, an increase of 17%. The improved sales reflected significantly


stronger volume in our targeted vertical markets for antenna products. Antenna sales improved to


both our large distributors and to OEM equipment providers. Scanning receiver revenue saw a


modest increase in sales through its value added resellers, such as Ascom, Anite, and SwissQual.


Now let’s turn to gross profit margin. Non-GAAP gross profit margin for the first quarter was 45%,


down 1.5% from the same period in 2010. Compared to the same period last year, gross profit


margin improved in antenna products, but declined in scanning products, as the newly introduced


MX product line has a slightly higher cost profile than our other scanning products. The net result of


the margin changes as well as antenna products continuing to comprise a higher percent of the


company’s revenue resulted in a lower gross profit margin percent.


Now let’s turn to non-GAAP operating expenses, which were $7.5 million in the quarter, an increase


of $500,000 from the same period last year. R&D decreased approximately $200,000, related to the


completion of several projects in scanning receiver development, which was partially offset by


increased spending for the new PCTEL Secure product.


Sales and marketing was up approximately $400,000 due to the company’s investment in antenna


vertical markets and PCTEL Secure sales and marketing staff, as well as an increase in


commissions related to the increase in revenue. G&A is up approximately $300,000, of which half


relates to the ERP project that we undertook this year.


Our non-GAAP operating income in the first quarter was $794,000, or 4% of revenue, compared to


$275,000, or 2% of revenue in the same period in 2010. The increase in dollars and percent of


revenue for the quarter is reflective of higher gross margin dollars on higher revenue, partially offset


by higher operating costs.


Our non-GAAP other income was $80,000 in the first quarter versus $159,000 in the same period


last year. Last year contained approximately $60,000 of one-time credits. The non-GAAP income