corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to today’s PCTEL Incorporated Second Quarter 2007


Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the


conference over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. Marty Singer. Please go ahead


sir.


Martin H. Singer, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. On behalf of PCTEL welcome to our earnings release conference call for the second


quarter. Thank you all for attending and for your interest in our company’s progress. My name is


Marty Singer, and I am PCTEL’s Chairman, and CEO. With me today our John Schoen, our Chief


Financial Officer, Bob Suastegui, our New Vice President of Global Sales and Marketing and Jeff


Miller, Director of Marketing.


As we’ve done in the past John will review our financial performance and some detail and will


review our balance sheet, and other financial issues. I will cover the general state of the business,


discuss highlights of the past quarter, and then I will discuss some earnings that for 2007, we’ll then


open the call to question. The company will provide a transcript of our prepared comments on our


website 15 minutes after the call. With that this background John will read the Safe Harbor


statement and then provide a financial overview. John?


John W. Schoen, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of the company, I will read the Safe Harbor


statement. Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal


Securities Laws. Our comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations


regarding the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses are forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual results may differ materially from those


projected as a result of risks and uncertainties including the ability to successfully grow our wireless


product business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP, and the


ability to integrate acquired businesses and products. Additional discussion of these and other


factors affecting the company’s business and prospects contained in our periodic SEC filings.


These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information


to reflect subsequent event. This concludes the Safe Harbor statement. Now, we will continue with


the financial review.


Our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings


release. The company believes the presentation of net income excluding restructuring charges and


non-cash based expense including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization, and


impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, and non-cash


based income tax expense provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and


investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitate comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results please refer to


our earnings release that is been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC, the release can also be found


on our website at www.pctel.com under investor relations. My discussion of results will be based


on our non-GAAP financial results.


Let’s turn to revenue. Second quarter 2000 -- totaled revenue was 19 million compared to 26.8


million in the second quarter of ‘06. The second quarter last year included a $7 million IP licensing


settlement from a gear I will speak to the trends by segment.
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our broadband technology group which contains wireless antenna and wireless scanning products


reported revenue in the quarter of 16.2 million, compared to 16.7 million in the same quarter of last


year. Strong growth in the re-scanning receiver sale was offset by a decrease in antenna revenue


resulting from the illumination of lower margin antenna products and the existing of UMTS antenna


operations. The mobility solutions group revenue in the second quarter was 2.5 million compared


to 2.7 million in the same quarter last year.


The second quarter last year included a heavy concentration of software customization fees related


to large carrier win. The principal products in this segment are the company’s data rolling client


software and associated central configuration server, as well as the IMF client software. Data client


sales dominate MSG revenue as IMS technology is currently in its pre-commercial deployment trial


stage throughout the world.


Licensing segment revenue was 0.3 million compared to 7.4 million in the second quarter last year.


As previously stated second quarter last year included a $7 million IP licensing settlement from a


gear. With the completion of the modem pact litigation last year the company has remaining only


several relatively small licensing agreement that will run the completion this year.


Now, I would like to speak to revenue guidance for the third quarter of 2007. Third quarter revenue


is expected to be between 19.5 million and 20.5 million. Licensing is expected to be approximately


$100,000 of that amount.


Gross margin, aggregate gross margin for the second quarter was 52%, compared to 51% last


year, excluding the onetime $7 million licensing settlement. I’ll speak to the margin performance by


segment. Broadband technology groups gross margin was 44% in the second quarter, compared


to 43% in the same quarter last year. The improvement reflects growth in our higher margins


scanning receiver and clarify product and the elimination of certain low margin antenna products.


This is the second year of low margin improvement in this segment, it is running year-to-date at


44% as compared to 42% now of ‘06 and 38% now of ‘05. We expect gross margin in the segment


to run in a 44% to 45% range going forward.


Mobility solutions, our gross margin was 98% in the quarter, compare to 99% to the same period


last year. As a reminder, the only cost of sales in this segment is third party software licenses. We


expect gross margin to remain in that 98 to 99% range going forward.


Our licensing gross margin was 99% for the quarter, and of course, we would that expect margin to


remain in that 98% to 99% range going forward also. With the product mix forecasted for the third


quarter revenue guidance, we expect total PCTEL’s gross profit for the quarter to be approximately


the same as the 52% achieved in the second quarter.


Now let’s turn to operating expenses. Second quarter R&D and SG&A were 9.8 million, up a half a


million from the same quarter last year. R&D expenses were up 700,000, an incremental


investment in head count and expenses across all products. Sales and marketing was 200,000


higher for the quarter, reflecting additional investments in distribution. G&A was down 200,000,


reflecting the completion of Pack litigation in 2006 and reductions of cost associated with the Dublin


facility. The connection royalty was unchanged from last year.


The company announced in June of this quarter that it was exiting its UMTS antenna product


operations with immediate effect including its design centers in Dublin and UK, as well as the


related contract manufacturing operations. The details of the exit were disclosed in our 8-K filing of


June 14, 2007 and updated as of today. We’ll not be included in our non-GAAP earnings the


company recorded a net restructuring charge of 2.1 million, the company expects a negligible loss


gross margin and net OpEx savings as I will now describe in my third quarter guidance.