Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John W. Schoen — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Senior VP, PCTEL, Inc.
Martin H. Singer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PCTEL, Inc.
Rishi Bharadwaj — Vice President & GM-Connected Solutions, PCTEL, Inc.
David A. Neumann — Senior Vice President, PCTEL, Inc.
Matt Robison — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the PCTEL Second Quarter 2016 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will open up the call for your questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now turn the call over to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you for joining us today for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the second quarter of 2016. On today's call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and I am John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Our remarks will contain forward-looking statements and projections of future results. Please review the forward-looking statement section at the end of today's earnings release for various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projections.

PCTEL reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Today's call will contain various operating results on an adjusted non-GAAP basis, which excludes items that affect the comparability of reported results. Descriptions of these non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations are included in today's earnings release, which is available on our website.

Now I'll turn the call over to Marty.

Thanks, John, and good evening or good afternoon to all of you. For those of you who have not had the opportunity to review our press release, let me recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter. We achieved revenue of $24.2 million, an increase of approximately $3.2 million over the first quarter. Gross profit margin was 39%. Operating margin was 6%. Net income was $1.3 million or $0.08 per diluted share. Cash and investments were $29.3 million, an increase of $1.4 million from last quarter. We generated approximately $2.4 million in free cash flow and we paid $853,000 in dividends.

At this point, I will turn the call over to John Schoen, who'll discuss our financial performance in some detail. After John completes his remarks, I will discuss our new products, markets and strategic direction. John?

Let's start with revenue, revenues were $24.2 million in the quarter, down 12% from the same period last year. I will speak to the changes by reporting segment. RF Solutions revenue was $8.5 million in the quarter, down $1.1 million or 11% from the same period last year. Services revenue declined largely associated with Samsung which was partially offset by growth in product revenue.

The Samsung contract ended after the second quarter last year. Connected Solutions revenue was $15.8 million in the quarter, down $2.3 million or 13% from the same period last year. The second quarter last year included a $3 million discrete project for Cisco and $350,000 in mobile tower revenue.

Now, let's turn to gross profit margin. Non-GAAP gross profit margin as a percent of sales was 39% in the quarter, compared to 35% in the same period last year. I'll speak to the changes by segment. RF Solutions gross profit margin as a percent of sales was 53% in the quarter compared to 44% in the same period last year. The major contributor to the improvement was the increased mix of product revenue with its higher margins compared to services.

Connected Solutions gross profit margin as a percent of sales was 31% in the quarter, up 3% of revenue from the same period last year. The change is attributed to manufacturing cost reductions implemented in the fourth quarter last year.

Now, let's turn to non-GAAP operating expenses. Operating expenses were $8 million in the quarter. This is a $1.4 million decrease from the same period last year. The decline is attributed to the restructuring cost reductions implemented in the second half of 2015. The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter and the year was 18%, unchanged from the prior year. Non-GAAP net income per share was $0.08 compared to non-GAAP net income of $0.02 in the same period last year. The increase was driven by cost reductions implemented in both manufacturing and operations during the second half of 2015.

Now, as a departure, we did have two large GAAP items – charges happen in the quarter, and so, I will speak to them now. Our GAAP earnings in the quarter were a loss of $11.1 million or $0.69 per share. There were two non-cash charges that aggregated to $12.4 million pre-tax or $0.66 of the loss, net of tax.

The first was a $4.7 million non-cash impairment of acquired intangible assets related to engineering services. The company experienced a decline in services revenue primarily related to the ending of the Samsung contract after the second quarter of 2015 and a slowdown in DAS spending by the carriers. The company is replacing that revenue with other types of work, but it is not experiencing the same margins it had when the assets were originally capitalized. The result is an impairment of intangible assets by $4.7 million.

The second item is a $7.6 million charge for the establishment of a valuation reserve on the deferred tax assets in the U.S. tax jurisdiction. For U.S. tax purposes, the company deducts the intangible assets and goodwill from its acquisitions over a 15-year period, but they are amortized over a much shorter period for book creating a deferred tax asset.

The company's growing success in small cell sales to large wireless infrastructure OEMs has caused more of the company's anticipated future worldwide taxable income to be outside the United States than previously forecast. Result is, the company believes some of its future U.S. tax benefits will not be realized as they will not be recoverable within the maximum carry-forward period.

Now, let's turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the quarter at $29.3 million, about $1.4 million higher than the previous quarter. In the quarter, the company generated free cash flow of approximately of $2.4 million comprised of cash flow from operations of $3.1 million and capital spending of $700,000.

The company was able to reduce working capital approximately $1 million in the quarter on higher sequential revenue as a result of its ongoing inventory reduction program. Depreciation in the quarter was $799,000. And during the quarter, the company paid a cash dividend of $853,000.

Now, I would like to discuss guidance for the third quarter. We anticipate third quarter revenue, gross margin and operating costs to be in line with the quarter just ended. The non-GAAP effective income tax rate is expected to remain unchanged going forward at 18%. The fully diluted share count in the quarter is expected to be about 16 million shares. That concludes the financial review. I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for his summary comments.

Thank you, John. And thank you again for participating in the call. Let me just mention that in Bloomingdale I have with me a good representation of our executive team. I have Rishi Bharadwaj, who heads up our Connected Solutions group. I have Shelley Bacastow, who is our Vice President and General Counsel, John of course, who you heard from, and Les Sgnilek, who heads up our Corporate Resources. And then also on the line is David Neumann, who is the Senior Vice President of our RF Solutions group.

When we get to this – when I'm done with my remarks here and you have questions, I want you to feel free to direct those questions to the members of the executive team. Anyways, we were pleased with the sequential quarterly rebound in all of our core business activities. As we suggested in our last earnings call, we anticipated that our business development activities with major OEMs such as Huawei would result in stronger antenna revenues for the second quarter and for the second half of the year.

We also thought that our in-building engineering services and our staffing business would show renewed growth. We now expect that by the end of the year, the run rate for our services operation will be nearly doubled what it was in the first quarter. Finally, we thought that carrier spending in the U.S. and in China would strengthen, and that would favorably impact our scanning receiver sales [ph] if that (9:34) happens as well.

As you may recall, we also committed to reducing our operating expenses to 2014 levels. We exceeded that goal and are currently running at an annual operating expense level of $32 million, $1 million below 2014 OpEx run rates. We also did a much better job of controlling inventory and other COGS-related expenses. John already reviewed the impact of these efforts on earnings and free cash flow. By the end of the year, we'll have eliminated over $4 million in inventory and greatly reduced our third party storage cost.

We do anticipate some cost increases, primarily in sales, business development and some expenses associated with the introduction of new products. As we have previously announced, we have launched Engage, our subscriber-based test and measurement tool, a variety of cloud-based SeeHawk analytic capabilities, new engineering services and a vastly expanded in-building and mobile antenna product line. We expect OpEx to increase modestly in the fourth quarter as we focus on the execution of our product development roadmap, expansion of our engineering services business and sales growth.

Let me now turn to specific events in our Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments. Connected Solutions had a very strong quarter with respect to major customer development. In addition to Huawei, we had our first significant sale into an LTE-based public safety agency. We shipped over 3,000 antennas for a coach voice communication systems used in professional football and very strong GNSS sales into the aviation market.

Small cells continue to emerge as an important multi-year opportunity for PCTEL. By the end of the year, we anticipate GNSS, LTE and Wi-Fi sales into the three largest cellular infrastructure vendors. In-building opportunities are now served by our VenU sector antennas, by major North American radio manufacturers. And we've also applied our VenU PIM160 products to outdoor desk applications.

RF Solutions experienced sequential quarter revenue growth across the board, some of it directly related to in-building. Engineering services nearly doubled and overall services increased approximately 60%.

In addition to a 100,000-mile drive test project, we secured preparatory engineering services from a national sports league to support their playoff games and projects with SouthernLINC, Ericsson, Mobility, and [indiscernible] (12:45). Our IBflex enjoyed strong sales in North American markets and we saw a continued growth in APAC.

We had a strong quarter with a major U.S. carrier, our first IBflex order with Google. And we secured our first orders after launching our subscriber-based Engage product at the DAS & Small Cells World Congress. Engage is now fully integrated with our scanning receivers and analytic tools. Our cloud-based SeeHawk analytics post-processing tool now supports all of PCTEL's test and measurement products and provides real-time support and reporting for our network engineering services group.

The recent announcements regarding the allocation of spectrum for 5G will accelerate the development of new networks and the transformation of existing networks. This type of sea change in wireless technology creates new opportunities for PCTEL. The deployment of 5G and the transition of public safety networks to LTE will require test and measurement equipment, engineering services and our performance critical antennas. Moreover, the aggregation of Wi-Fi and LTE requires the type of expertise that PCTEL has developed over years of RF experience. Of course the underlying impetus for 5G and more efficient use of spectrum is what drives our core business, the planet's unquenchable thirst for wireless data.

We're active in a variety of industry events including the B. Riley Investment Conference and the IDEA Conference in Boston. We attended and presented at Cisco Live, NEDAS Boston, CommunicAsia, the LTE Latin America Conference, CIBET, the Northeastern DAS Conference, Mobile World Congress in Shanghai and Interop Japan with our value-added distributor, Marubun.

We also attended the invitation-only Sports Entertainment Alliance in Technology Conference also referred to as SEAT. We attended RSSI, the Railway Systems Supplier meeting in Grapevine, Texas, where we featured PCTEL's innovative custom antenna farm designs to the rail industry.

We will be presenting our products at Wireless Connect at the University of Maryland in August 10 to August 11. And we'll be presenting at the IDEAS Conference in Chicago later this month on August 30. We look forward to meeting with investors, customers and others at these events.

We have set aside 30 minutes for your questions. And I'll now turn the call over to the operator. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Matt Robison of Wunderlich.

Hey. Thanks. Congrats on the results [ph] in (15:53) cash flow. John, what do you say you think revenue might be for the third quarter?

About the same.

You guys were looking to do something like $100 million I thought this year. How you're going to get there now?

I think it looks more like $96 million to $99 million.

Okay.

We do have some upside in the third quarter, Matt, but we are really committed to making our guidance. So, the loss of kitting business that we had last year, the mobile tower business, this $3 million project that we had with Cisco for a major customer, some of that's been difficult to replace. I think what you'll see though is our gross margins are going to start going up, and we'll have a lot of momentum in the fourth quarter going into next year with our antenna sales and the small cell and Wi-Fi vendors.

How do you – are you able to get the engineering services for small cell? Why – maybe explain a little bit why DAS works for you and may be more than small cell [ph] will or (17:15) maybe you can do the same...

I think that small cell will work quite well. I think the magic of DAS was that at one point in time, the carriers made a strong financial commitment to deploying DAS in very large buildings. And as they've struggled to get a return on that investment, they've backed off on that investment and turned it over to the venue owners or to systems integrators. And what that has done to everybody in DAS is that it has slowed DAS deployment down.

Because imagine as the systems integrator goes into, let's say a large hospital and it's got to tap into the signal, let's say of four carriers and it has to negotiate all of those permissions. So, that becomes difficult when one operator is not willing to go in and make the investment, and then essentially lease up that network as more or less a neutral host to the other carriers.

Having said that, DAS, particularly passive DAS, was running into some issues. It solved coverage, but it didn't necessarily solve capacity. And so now you see a trend towards the deployment of C-RAN, Centralized Radio Access Networks and the remoting of small cells into large venues. There will be some significant engineering services business there. There will certainly be a lot of antenna business there. And there will also be a lot of business for IBflex as these get deployed.

There is a question about the reality of SON or Self-Optimizing Networks. And if these small cells can be deployed without a lot of engineering, let's say around problems such as neighbor list optimization. But we do believe that there will continue to be DAS. It will go more slowly because of the shift in responsibilities for its deployment and planning, but we also feel that there is going to be significant opportunities with small cell.

So, sounds like if you're going to do the $96 million to $99 million, then you're thinking that you might see some sequential growth in the fourth quarter?

Yes.

How do you see the relative strengths of your product lines between third and fourth quarter?

Well, we think that antennas will see a nice upswing in the fourth quarter because a couple of our OEM contracts on small cells are really hitting their stride. We think that this discrete project that we had will have some rebirth. We also think that we're going to see some strong GNS sales, not just to aviation as reported, but also timing. And then finally, probably one of our most promising verticals for growth is rail and more broadly fleet. And those verticals are moving along quite nicely.

We also think there's going to be some opportunity to move our engineering services out of what has been exclusively carrier and in-building into SCADA. We're getting some experience with utilities, and oil and gas, where they need some systems engineering related to their network. And we think that that is a promising area.

With respect of RF Solutions, we think we're going to have sequential growth in our staffing business, maybe to the tune of $100,000 a month improvement, every month as we scale that business. We talked about this national drive test campaign we have for a major carrier. We think we'll see a nice bump in the third quarter and a stronger bump in the fourth quarter. And then we think that scanning receivers is back to reasonable historic levels. So, we think we'll see a growth across the board. And that's how we get to the $96 million to $99 million.

Thank you very much.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is from Mike Crawford of B. Riley & Company.

Thank you. You talked about getting – in small cells to – by the end of the year selling to all three major vendors, which I take that to be Huawei, which we know you're strong with, but also Nokia, which bought Alcatel-Lucent, and I suppose Ericsson. [ph] Is that what you're getting at (22:33)?

That would be reasonably accurate.

And so, what historically have you done with – well Nokia and then Alcatel-Lucent before...

Rishi, do you want to comment on our historical business with those two infrastructure vendors?

Sure. We have been supplying them custom antennas that integrate inside their [ph] OEM (22:55) – inside their radio or small cell radios for Nokia. And we're also working with them on the next generation platform, which they plan to use for not just cellular LTE coverage, but also expanding into Wi-Fi offloading as well [ph] where while (23:15) we have been certainly very strong in terms of [ph] hard to find events (23:19) and we've been shipping antennas for TDD, small cell applications and then plan to start shipping them our GPS timing antennas for network timing as well.

Okay. Thank you. And then, when you talk, Marty, about scanning receivers returning to reasonable historic levels, do I take that to mean over $5 million of revenue per quarter or...

Yes. Yes.

...versus where has it been [ph] running (23:51) more recently?

Well, we've had a couple of quarters where it was down to $4 million to $4.5 million which are miserable quarters for us, but we're seeing some strength. I will tell you that although sometimes, Ascom, you'll see announcements that they're focused on their hospital business, hospital communication business. We've actually seen some strong business from Ascom, some good progress in different areas. And we have sold to other OEMs. But I'll tell you the other thing that's happened is that David Neumann is on the line, he has done a great job of building some stronger direct sales. David, do you want to comment at all on that?

Just one point on small cells. We talk about small cells driving engineering growth, but it also drives the product sales in IBflex. Small cell might be $15,000, $20,000 to install. So, it's difficult for the carriers to justify large expense to test those networks. Given the IBflex penetration in the market [ph] at (25:08) all the carriers, we've developed some software applications that run on Android that allow the operators to test their small cell deployments using the installed base of IBflexs at the [ph] REO. (25:25)

So, as Marty said, Q4 should be pretty good and typically is a stronger quarter for scanning receivers, but it's also important to note that we're starting to add that applications that leverage the power of those scanning receivers.

Mike, did you get your question answered there?

Sure. Thank you. I mean, it seems while you've introduced these nice cloud-based crowd-sourced products, but on the other hand, these – they're lower priced products, right? So, it's hard – it's not hard to see why sales of scanning receiver type of products would dip down below $20 million a year, right, with lower priced solutions?

Well...

Well I think that's a...

David, hold on for a second. I think one of the points that we made at the last conference call, and I think I made, when I was out at your conference, Mike, is that while it is true that Engage is a lower priced product, remember that, what you get is a much higher attach rate. So, right now, if you were to look at drive tests or walk test systems, there's a pretty low attach rate of sophisticated scanning receivers with those overall systems. With Engage, we're looking to increase that attach rate, not necessarily in a way that displaces IBflex, but augments IBflex.

So, what David was alluding to was in the case of a small cell that only costs $15,000 to $20,000, you have to look for devices that many, many technicians can have that aren't going to cost as much as a traditional drive test system that you're using to benchmark or optimize macro-cellular towers across $500,000 to a $1 million. So, I think what you're going to see is with one type of product Engage, you put it in everybody's hand. Okay?

Also, if you're going and building what Engage gives you when coupled with IBflex is user experience and immediate reporting. So the IBflex pulls out all network parameters, but then with Engage, you actually start to look at well, what's the user's experience when accessing an FTP site, what's the user's experience when downloading a YouTube video, what's the user's experience when making a voice call, and you couple that with the network parameters and you move that into the cloud, and then you can do post-processing on that in an immediate way. So I don't think it necessarily leads to an erosion of price points, I think it leads to different configurations.

Okay. Thanks, Marty. And then, last question, just regarding 5G. So, with these microwave band spectrum, I guess, the good news for you is that the small cells themselves are really small. They don't propagate that far, so that you probably need a ton of them, compared to what you see out now. But, on the flip side, these things aren't really expected to be deployed in any large amount for four years or five years. Isn't that true?

David, you want to comment on that?

Well. Yeah. I think that's one spectrum, [ph] SUA (29:28) that you're talking about, Mike. But 5G is really a [ph] path (29:32) and 3GPP has a number of iterations of specs that we'll go through before we eventually get to 5G. And there's other spectrum, the lower end spectrum would play very well for PCTEL, and that means that the operators and users will start using, for example, unlicensed spectrum for LTE or versions of LTE that will work with Wi-Fi. So, [ph] they're (30:03) spaces that we're pretty strong in today, but we'll need to tweak and adjust the tools to satisfy and meet the requirements of these different 3GPP specs.

So, yes. So long-term, 5G is years away, but it's a process and we're in a pretty strong position throughout that process.

Okay. Thank you.

Operator, are there any other questions?

There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to Marty Singer for final remarks.

Once again, I want to thank all of you for participating in our earnings conference call. We look forward to updating you at our next call, and hope to see you at various industry events over the next quarter.

Thank you, and good-bye.

Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.