corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


ANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the PCTEL Incorporated First Quarter 2007


Earnings Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. At this time, I’d like to turn the


conference over to the Director of Marketing of PCTEL, Jack Seller, who will read the Safe Harbor.


Please go ahead.


Jack Seller, Director of Marketing & Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, April 24th, 2008, for the PCTEL financial results conference call for


the first quarter 2008. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO, and John Schoen,


Chief Financial Officer. Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Federal Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, planned open


market stock repurchases, and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF and


licensing businesses, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties,


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new


technologies and obtain protection for the related IP. Additional discussion of these and other


factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings.


These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information


to reflect subsequent events. I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer for


opening remarks.


Marty Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack. On behalf of PCTEL, welcome to our earnings release conference call for the first


quarter. I want to thank you all for attending and for your interest in our company’s progress. As we


have done in the past, John Schoen will review our financial performance in some detail and will


review our balance sheet and other issues. I will cover the general state of the business, discuss


highlights of the past quarter, and then I will discuss some areas of focus for 2008. We will then


open the call to your questions. The company will provide a transcript of our prepared comments on


our website fifteen minutes after the call.


Before John begins his discussion of the quarter highlights, I would like to point out that we


announced a special dividend today. The Board of Directors has approved a one-time, special cash


dividend of $0.50 per share. With that as background, I’d now like to turn the call over to John


Schoen.


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Marty, and good afternoon, or evening, to everyone. Our investors will note that the


company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes


that presentation of gross profit, operating profit, and net income excluding restructuring charges


and non-cash based expense including stock and stock option based compensation, amortization


and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, and non-


cash based income tax expense provide meaningful supplemental information to both management


and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and a


reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found at our website at pctel.com under Investor


Relations. My discussions of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


We are pleased to note that the company closed the sale of its Mobility Solutions Software Group


or MSG, to Smith Micro on January 4th, 2008. The company’s financial statements have been


revised to reflect MSG as a discontinued operation. My discussion of financial results will address


continuing operations.


Let’s start with revenue. First quarter 2008 revenue from continuing operations was 18.3 million


compared to 16.6 million in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 10%. Both our scanning


receiver and antenna product lines experienced growth in the same period last year. In addition, we


would like to point out that Q1 2007 included $500,000 of UMTS antenna revenue, a product line


that the company exited in the first half of 2007.


With regards to gross profit margin. Gross margin from continuing operations for the first quarter


was 48% versus 45% in the same period last year. The gross margin improvement reflects


favorable product mix and COGS reduction.


With regard to operating expenses. First quarter R&D and SG&A from continuing ops were 6.7


million, down $1 million in the same quarter last year. Approximately $650,000 of the decrease was


from the exiting in 2007 of UMTS antenna operations located in Ireland, resulting in lower R&D and


G&A expense. The remaining 350,000 was generated by efficiencies in corporate G&A. The


Conexant royalty was lower than last year by $50,000.


While not included in non-GAAP earnings, I do want to give some background on the $377,000


restructuring expense recorded in the first quarter. It relates to the streamlining of the corporate


overhead structure after the MSG sale and an expense adjustment to our UMTS restructuring


reserves. We anticipate another adjustment to the UMTS restructuring expense in the second


quarter, but it will be income of approximately $250,000. We found a buyer in April for excess raw


material inventory and fixed assets that were previously written-off. As with the first quarter


expense, the income in the second quarter will also be excluded from our non-GAAP earnings.


Let’s recap operating income. Operating income from continuing operations in the first quarter was


2.4 million, or 13% of revenue, compared to 68,000, or break-even as a percent of revenue in the


same period last year. The results reflect improved gross profit performance and lower operating


costs.


Now, let’s turn to other income. Other income was $800,000 in the first quarter compared to


950,000 a year ago, and $200,000 in the fourth quarter of 2007. Other income was negatively


impacted in both the fourth quarter ‘07 and the first quarter ‘08 by mark-to-market adjustments of


our investments in the Bank of America affiliated fund, the Columbia Strategic Cash Portfolio. As


we explained in our fourth quarter earnings call, this is an enhanced cash money market fund that


was impacted by the recent turmoil in the credit markets. The company currently has $25.4 million


of its investments in this fund of which 15.4 million is classified as long-term, as the weighted


average life of the underlying securities are beyond 12 months.


The fund is effectively yielding zero to a slight loss as the mark-to-market adjustments are offsetting


the interest income earned. Columbia is in the process of liquidating the fund. The liquidation


program returned 14 million of our investment in the first quarter of 2008. Although to-date interest


on this investment has offset valuation losses while we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the


liquidation.


With regard to income taxes, the non-GAAP income tax rate is 16.2%. The rate is higher than 2007


non-GAAP rate as we have now utilized our net operating loss in 2008 and will pay federal and


state income tax.