Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John W. Schoen — Chief Financial Officer & Senior VP, PCTEL, Inc.
Martin H. Singer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PCTEL, Inc.
Matt Robison — Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the PCTEL Third Quarter 2014 Conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will open up the call for your question. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now turn the call over to John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you for joining us today for PCTEL financial results conference call for the third quarter 2014. On today's call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO; and I am John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to read our Safe Harbor statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and features, product development, acquisition efforts and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.

Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP. Additional discussions of these and other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.

Thank you, John, and good afternoon to everyone. Let me recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter in the event that you didn't have time to review our press release. We achieved revenue of $27.9 million, a 6% increase from the preceding quarter. This was a record quarter, the highest revenue quarter since our management team took over in 2001. Gross profit margin was 41%. Operating margin from continuing operations was 12%. Net income was $2.9 million or $0.16 per diluted share. Cash and investments were $59 million and we continue to have no debt. This is an increase of $5 million over the last quarter.

Now, I'll turn the call back over to John who will discuss our financial performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on some of our business development [ph] , engineering and (02:37) marketing efforts over the past quarter as well as some of our current activities. John?

Thank you, Marty. Our investors will note that the company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of gross profit, operating profit and net income, excluding expenses for restructuring, gain or loss on sale of assets or legal settlements, stock-based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill and non-cash related income tax expense provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the company's core results and facilitates comparisons across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My discussion of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.

So, let's turn to revenue. Revenue was $27.9 million, up 6% from $26.4 million in the same quarter last year. I will speak to the changes by reporting segment. RF Solutions revenue was $9.3 million and increased 13% from the $8.2 million in the same quarter last year. The growth was attributed to engineering services revenue from the continued rapid growth of in-building wireless network expansion. Scanning receiver revenue was approximately the same. Connected Solutions revenues were $18.7 million in the quarter, an increase of 2% from the $18.3 million in the same period last year. Site solution products were significantly higher while antenna products revenue continued to be lower as seen in the first half of the year.

Now, let's turn to gross profit. Gross profit margin, as a percent of sales, was 41% in the quarter, unchanged from the same period last year. RF Solutions gross profit, as a percent of sales, was 61% in the quarter, representing a period-over-period decline of 2% of sales. The decline is attributed to the increased contribution of our network engineering service revenue with its lower gross profit margin relative to scanners. Connected Solutions gross profit, as a percent of sales, was 31% in the quarter, unchanged from the same period last year. We maintained our gross margin levels despite strong increases in our lower margin site solutions products.

Now, let's turn to non-GAAP operating expenses. Operating expenses were $8 million in the quarter, unchanged from the same period last year. Within that, R&D and SG&A were also approximately the same as last year. Non-GAAP other income was $19,000 in the current quarter. The amount represents interest on our investments netted with other miscellaneous expenses. The number will continue to be small in the current interest rate environment.

You may have noticed that the company announced that we settled a lawsuit in October with the independent accounting firm that awarded the pre-acquisition financial statements for the TelWorx assets purchased in 2012. Those statements contained material errors.

For non-GAAP purposes, we expensed the legal fees as incurred in G&A costs and only recognize settlement income to the extent it recovers legal fees spent to-date. So, in the fourth quarter, we will be reversing approximately $400,000 of G&A expense for the recovered legal fees spent in 2014. This will be reflected in our fourth quarter operating cost guidance that I will speak to in a minute.

Non-GAAP operating margin improved to 12% of revenue from 11% in the same period last year from higher revenues and stable margins leveraged over unchanged operating costs. The non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter and the year was 18%, unchanged from last year. Non-GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.16, an increase of $0.03 from the same period last year.

Now, let us turn to the balance sheet. Cash and investments ended the third quarter at approximately $59 million or $5 million greater than the previous quarter. During the quarter, the company generated free cash flow of $5.4 million consisting of operating cash flow of $6.1 million, net of capital spending of $654,000. Depreciation in the quarter was $722,000.

Our free cash flow profile for the full-year 2014 is shaping up to be consistent with 2013 at around 8% of revenue. September year-to-date free cash flow is $4 million. We expect fourth quarter free cash flow to be in the range of $4 million to $5 million bringing the full year in a range of $8 million to $9 million.

Now, I'd like to discuss the guidance for the fourth quarter 2014. We are guiding to a revenue range of $28.7 million to $29.3 million. Gross profit margin is expected to be approximately 42% as the fourth quarter has historically been the strongest quarter for scanning receiver revenue. Operating costs are expected to be about $8.3 million, and that's net of the $400,000 legal expense recovery I described earlier. As a reminder, our operating costs are at their highest in the fourth quarter of each year due to the seasonality of our expenses.

The non-GAAP effective income tax rate is expected to remain unchanged going forward at 18%. The fully diluted share count in the fourth quarter is expected to be about 18.3 million shares.

That concludes the financial review. I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for his summary comments.

Thanks, John. I want to briefly discuss advances in our RF Solutions product line, our strengthening position in wireless broadband antenna technology, progress in delivering site solutions to carriers and oil and gas markets and our in-building initiatives.

As we announced at this year's Mobile World Congress, we launched three new products earlier this year, our new IBflex, our SeeWave interference detection system and our SeeGull CW Transmitter. We have realized encouraging sales levels in all three areas. The IBflex is now our leading scanning receiver. It has unique in-building benchmarking and optimization characteristics and has contributed to the growth of our in-building network engineering operation.

Similarly, our new SeeGull CW Transmitter accelerates the acquisition of in-building coverage data, and our SeeWave system allows any existing PCTEL scanning receiver to transform into a precision tool for isolating interference sources. Just to be clear, this means our installed base of scanning receivers, one of our greatest assets, is completely available for additional revenue recognition if our customers move to implement our SeeWave interference detection system. These products also position PCTEL to play an important role in addressing issues related to spectrum sharing and spectrum redeployment as the government relaxes regulations on the utilization of restricted spectrum.

Broadband wireless technology, along with our GNSS product line, represents the cornerstone of our performance-critical antenna product line. During this year, we added both Aruba and Extreme as important OEM infrastructure suppliers to incorporate our wireless broadband antennas into their Wi-Fi base stations. We are also a preferred supplier of wireless broadband antennas to Cisco along with several other OEM suppliers. We have also been successful in incorporating LTE into complex combinatorial antennas that include GNSS and other technologies. We have successfully penetrated fleet, transit and rail with these performance-critical antennas.

Although the deployment of small cells has not been as rapid as we anticipated, we had our strongest quarter in shipping small-cell site solution kits into the growing U.S. market. We anticipate a 50% sequential increase in fourth quarter shipments of cell site kits.

Similarly, we had our strongest quarter in shipping mobile towers. These included highly accessorized towers for emergency management applications and others that were crucial in SCADA applications for oil and gas, particularly in Northwest Canada. We anticipate a run rate business of about $1 million a quarter in mobile towers and hope to expand that in 2015.

Over the past two years, we have discussed our commitment to in-building wireless networks. This past January we held an in-building wireless forum and invited industry leaders to discuss trends and requirements for this high-growth market. Our focus has been well founded. In addition to our investment in relevant tests and measurement tools and our benchmarking and commissioning services, we launched our first PIM-tested antennas. By the first quarter 2015, we will have a complete product line including splitters, combiners, load terminations and a portfolio of ceiling mounts and other antennas. These antennas will expand upon our success with the New York City subway project as we address opportunities throughout the in-building market.

As has been the case throughout the past year and indeed in 2013, our Network Engineering Services continues to expand as we benchmark and commission in-building network designs. Facilitated by the availability of our leading scanning receiver and visualization tools, we have increased our quarterly revenue by 8 times since acquiring Envision Wireless approximately three years ago.

We continue to explore several acquisition opportunities. Our focus is on products that are consistent with our existing distribution and engineering strengths, software tools that enhance our in-building and wireless design efforts and assets that will extend our regional reach. We'll update our shareholders when we have something to report.

As previously announced, we settled our lawsuits with the investment banker and accountants that advised or provided services related to the acquisition of the TelWorx assets. As shareholders might recall and as reported in our March 2013 filings, the company discovered accounting irregularities that occurred prior to the acquisition of those assets. At that time, the company communicated to its shareholders that it would seek restitution from responsible parties. This included Tim Scronce, management of the TelWorx entities, the accounting firm that produced the audited financials and the investment banker who represented Tim Scronce.

Over the past 18 months, we've pursued both professional groups and we were pleased to settle these matters. As John explained, other income increased as a result of this settlement and we're able to absorb the legal costs without impairing our non-GAAP earnings per share. It is now time to move on and accelerate the growth of the assets that we acquired over two years ago.

With respect to 2014 and 2015 guidance, we have a clear view on how we will finish the current year and our potential growth in 2015. We anticipate another record quarter possibly over $29 million in the fourth quarter. Our 2014 revenue will be around $107 million. In 2015, we anticipate revenue growth in a range of 15% to 20% for RF Solutions operation and 10% to 15% for Connected Solutions. This should result in 2015 revenues between $120 million and $123 million.

With that, I concluded my prepared remarks and we have set aside 30 minutes for your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

We're ready.

Your first question comes from the line of Matt Robison.

Okay. Thanks and nice job working through the environment out there with the service providers and OEMs. Can you give us a little flavor as to where you think you're going to see the strength versus weaknesses in the fourth quarter both for Connected and RF?

Yes. RF Solutions is pretty straightforward. We expect that China will be strong for us. We really started to see a nice uptick in our sales. As you know, we're providing our scanning receiver, particularly the IBflex, into all of the major carriers at this time. Although there is a general slowdown across the entire country in China, it is still a relative greenfield situation. And so, we'll continue to see growth there. We're also seeing some strong growth in selected carrier markets, notably Sprint and T-Mobile, as they move forward with some of their plans. And we're starting to see some interest in our SeeWave detection system and also the CW Transmitter, which is now going to be distributed by one of the larger distributors in the country in addition to our direct sales opportunity. So, all of those should be reasonable.

On the antenna side or the Connected Solutions side, I'm really pleased to report that we're starting to see an uptick in our antenna sales. You know that we dropped down in the $12 million to $13 million range in the first quarter, which was 100% of the reason for our shortfall in the first quarter and that has plagued us the entire year. But second and third quarter showed nice rebounds. We're seeing some of our legacy customers come back. And when you add into that our success with emerging OEM radio providers or base station providers, such as Extreme and Aruba, we certainly have the table set to do well in our broadband wireless area.

Our GNSS product line, when you think about our industrial wireless antennas, we're really strong in two areas: broadband wireless, which includes Wi-Fi and LTE and combinations of those and flat panels, ceiling mounts, omnis and so on; and then we're very strong in GNSS. And in GNSS, we started an initiative about a year-and-a-half ago to really penetrate fleet and other areas in transit. And so, we expect strength there.

I don't think towers will be particularly strong. As I said, we're hoping to get to a run rate of about $1.25 million there. But site solutions, because of the backlog we have, we have really strong visibility on the POs, it should be about 50% higher than it was in the third quarter.

As you probably know though from all the reports, Verizon and ATF slowed some of their LTE small-cell deployment. And indeed, some of the groups that actually do the physical work of deployment are a little backed up. Even with that though we'll show pretty strong growth in the fourth quarter, and that should continue into next year. And finally, of course, our engineering services should be reasonable. So...

So, you think you'll have a positive comparison in...

Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

... for the Connected Solutions in the fourth quarter?

Yeah. I think if you just look at small-cell deployment alone, that aspect of our site solution business should be up about 50%. Offsetting that a little bit will be a little bit of a decline in the AWS kits that we provide.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mike Crawford.

Hey Mike, how are you today?

I'm good. Marty, what will it take to turn around or at least do you see a light at the end of the tunnel in the further weakness in some of the antenna products?

Well, like I say, that weakness was largely in three areas in the first quarter. We had been running at about $14.5 million just in straight up antennas a quarter and we dipped down to the $12 million to $13 million range. But now we're back into that run rate and we're hoping to pop over $15 million run rate as we head into 2015.

So, our weakness was in three areas. One, we had an incredibly strong run with a jackhammer, the Cisco Wi-Fi base station project, and that more or less came to an end. We had a surge, as you know, over the last two years on our timing antennas. And then Motorola had some weakness for our traditional public safety. Now, what's happening is, in public safety, part of that weakness has been historically because of the revenue crisis for the government, both federal and local. But another part that has not been well-covered at all is the fact that there's a transition going on. People are moving from LMR to LTE.

And so, we have refreshed our product. We're now able to deliver LTE capability in the LMR traditional bands. And we expect to see some growth now in public safety. So, companies like Motorola, defense systems integrators that are in that area, even some dispatch and other private networks are making that move, and I think that will grow.

The second thing is that, as we mentioned, the jackhammer product just came to a natural end but Cisco is refreshing that. And some of the other OEM players in that space, such as Aruba and Extreme, have really come on-board very quickly. And now, we're seeing reasonable business from all three companies in that space. And then with respect to our GNSS (23:00) product line that suffered, as I said, from – well, not suffered but we just had tremendous surge in GPS timing antennas. And as those are built out, that came down a little bit. But what we've done now is we have all four navigation or satellite technologies incorporated in our GNSS products, Galileo, GLONASS, BeiDou and GPS. And that timing business is going to be worldwide. And so, we are moving to provide that product in those markets, particularly in small cell and then also in navigation. And then I will mention one other broad area of strength and that is the combination of small cell and in-building.

As capacity and coverage is distributed by small cells or DAS or ODAS systems, they will need products like ours. So, a typical small cell now requires five antennas, a tiny antenna and four other antennas for backhaul and communication. And we have antennas that are designed to meet that need.

And then, in addition, we launched our first PIM-rated antenna. We got a tremendous amount of experience of this in the New York City subway project. We now are combining both products that we designed, developed and manufactured here as well as those that we [ph] spec (24:49) and outsourced. And we expect to have a complete PIM-rated product line for in-building applications during 2015 and we'll see some strength there.

Okay. Thank you, Marty. And just to follow-up on one – on the public safety aspect. It seems like FirstNet is finally – there's going to be some dollars trickling in...

Right.

...in the coming 12 months. Is that tied to your expectation here?

Yes. That is tied to our expectation. And there's really a broad trend that I think is probably underappreciated in the industry and what it means for antennas, engineering services and scanning receivers. And that is the major national issue of spectrum redeployment. And so, I know, with your question, that you're fully aware of the coastal spectrum that has been relegated to government in defense use, but of course it's totally unused in the center of the country. And even along those coastal areas, it's really only used in packets around naval ports or coast guard locations and so on. And there's going to be an explosion of use of that spectrum for small cell, and there's going to be a tremendous amount of design work, antenna opportunity and scanning receiver opportunity that we think we'll make the U.S. a more interesting growth prospect for companies like ours over the next three or four years.

Okay. Thank you. And then regarding your directors, you [ph] stepped off (26:52) the board to help lead up your strategic alternative process. Can you just talk about what it is you're looking for in M&A? Does it need to be accretive out of the gate or how are you thinking about this?

Well, there's – let me just back up and describe Carolyn Dolezal's role. Carolyn, as you may or may not know, worked at SmithBucklin and also at Motorola and ran some businesses that were independent of both those in the communication area. And she has a broad skill set that could apply to a lot of different things that we do operationally as well as strategically or M&A. But we moved her into the role to fill two immediate needs. One, we have had a very diffused approach to branding and marketing. And as you know, we've rolled out the Performance Critical Telecom brand. We want to imprint that with many of the things we do, have people understand what's unique about our industrial wireless antennas, our engineering services and our scanning receivers. And Carolyn is tasked with bringing together all of our marketing efforts. We've never had a Vice President of Marketing who sort of handled that out of our collective back pockets.

The second thing is that I personally look at, I would say, 25 to 30 companies a year in some detail, and I have some time constraints and that I'm really trying to work on the growth of our businesses themselves. And I needed some help in processing the candidates for acquisition that we are looking at. And so, Carolyn is filling that role.

In terms of what we're looking at, it's as I said in the prepared remarks, we're trying to expand what we do in RFS and to look at companies that provide analytic tools particularly that might get us into big data. We have all these data that we can acquire with our various devices and that we collect for engineering services. We're looking for regional expansion. We're weak with our antennas in Europe and in CALA. We'd like to change that. And the third thing is we think that we can expand our product line in the antenna space as long as it's compatible with distribution. We are, in fact, looking for things that are immediately accretive and at or below, maybe slightly above the EBITDA multiple where we trade. And so, shareholders should be comfortable that we're not going to pay an extraordinary multiple for anything. We're just not going to take that kind of risk with our cash.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you. Oh, Mike?

Yes.

I wanted to thank you for sending the Bulls Pau Gasol. I really appreciated how we played against the Knicks yesterday.

All right. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Greg Lempel (30:34).

Hi, Marty.

Hi, [ph] Greg (30:39)

I appreciate you taking my questions.

Sure.

First of all, can you talk about the guidance you outlined for 2015 in reference to the financial goals that you laid out a few months ago? Because I'm not sure that I misheard, but it seems like there's a substantial difference in, I guess...

They're a little bit lower. We thought that we'd be closer to something like $127 million or $128 million I think is what we've set out in the earlier investment. We're talking now about $121 million to $123 million or $120 million to $123 million. And the main reason for that is uncertainty about the deployment of the small cells. We had anticipated, based on the POs that we're receiving, that this was going to be deployed pretty rapidly. And probably, as you've seen in the press and as was mentioned by Matt Robison earlier, there has been a pretty pronounced slowdown in the deployment of small cells. And so, almost all of that difference is related to that.

So, timing only and it doesn't affect 2016 or the goals?

I believe that 2016 is going to be a strong year because we're going to see not just the small-cell deployment but you'll see the takeoff of our PIM-rated antennas in that environment and other antennas that we have that we'll take advantage of. What the operators say are about 40,000 small cells a year. And that's not – in total, that's for each of the major carriers, and then, of course, that is going to also impact the capital deployment plans of other carriers.

Appreciate that. And then the other question just has to do with capital allocation and I know you brought up earlier about the acquisition criteria. What are the thoughts around returning cash to shareholders? It seems like that would be in the best interest of shareholders and the company in trading at a valuation. It seems like that could be a reasonable use of cash relative to the cash that we have on the balance sheet and also relative to other acquisition alternatives.

Well, we, of course, appreciate that input from you. But we look at it in this way and our board has always been committed to returning value to the shareholders. First, the company has an extraordinary history of doing exactly as you just suggested. We spent approximately $80 million on stock buyback during my tenure. And on an annual basis, we always authorize some amount of stock buyback. Our philosophy though is that we have cash and we should deploy it in three different areas all in moderation. We don't do all stock buyback, we don't do all dividends and we don't do all acquisitions. We believe that shareholders benefit from us deploying cash in a way that helps us accelerate revenue growth, particularly if it's consistent with our strengths, our distribution channels, our technology, areas of confidence and so on. So, I think, cash should be deployed in that area.

We deployed cash to buy back stock and we've returned a consistent quarterly dividend to shareholders. So, I don't think that you would get any [ph] quote (34:30) from us about the importance of returning value to shareholders. We just have a philosophy of exercising all three levers and not just one.

Well, all I'd say is that assuming we hit the goals that we're talking about financially, it seems like we're a good value relative to other alternatives. So, I wish [indiscernible] (34:54)...

So, I would encourage you to buy – I think you're right, I always encourage you to buy more stock.

And I wish us well on achieving the targets.

Great.

Thank you for taking my questions.

Sure. Thank you. Are there any other questions?

No further questions.

Okay.

I would now like turn the conference over to Mr. Marty Singer.

Hello?

It seems like there's one more question from a [ph] Josh Spector (35:30).

There is a question from the line of [ph] Josh Spector (35:30).

Yeah. I guess following up on that last question. With the stock being so cheap and so much cash on the balance sheet, it just seems that the policy of doing a little bit of acquisition or a little bit of dividend, that's really gotten shareholders nowhere over the last 10 years. So, I'm just curious why the board wouldn't consider doing something a little bit more aggressive with the cash, vis-à-vis, a large special dividend, a large share repurchase and why those aren't better alternatives than the status quo?

Well, we think we have accomplished something of value for the shareholders. When we took over the company, it was basically bankrupt, and now we have three platforms that have taken us a while to construct, that are performing well, and we think we have great opportunities to enhance those platforms with well-focused acquisitions and at the same time and on a disciplined basis, returning value to the shareholders in the form of dividends and buyback. And in terms of aggressive actions, we have, at times, taken actions giving us special one-time $10 million dividend and also, as I say, spending approximately $80 million on stock buyback over the last decade.

Do you think the shareholders would be better off if the company was put up for sale?

I haven't thought about that. Right now, we're focused on building the company.

Well, I would hope that the board considers all alternatives at all times.

Is that a question?

It's my comment.

Okay. Thank you. Are there any other questions?

There are no further questions.

Well, thank you for attending our third quarter earnings conference call. We look forward to meeting you at industry events and updating you at our next earnings call. Thank you.

Thank you for your participation on today's conference call. You may now disconnect.