corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the PCTEL First


Quarter 2009 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will


open up the call for your questions. [Operator Instructions.] As a reminder, the conference call is


being recorded for replay purposes.


I will now turn the call over to Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Marketing & Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today April 30, 2009 for the PCTEL financial results conference call for the


first quarter of 2009. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO, and John Schoen,


Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities


laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products and product


development and expectations regarding the future growth of our Wireless RF business are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor. Actual results may differ


materially from these projected as a result of risks and uncertainties including the ability to


successfully grow our wireless product businesses, implement new technologies and obtain


protection for the related IP. Additional discussions of these and other factors affecting the


company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filing. These statements are


made only as of today and we disclaim any obligations to update information to reflect subsequent


events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin (Marty) H. Singer, Ph. D., Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thank you, Jack, and good afternoon. For those of you who have not had a chance to read our


press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter on a continuing


operations basis.


We achieved revenue of $14.1 million. Our non-GAAP gross profit margin was 48%. Our non-


GAAP operating margin was 3%. Non-GAAP net income was 451,000, or $0.03 per diluted share,


and our cash and investments were $77 million.


I’d also like to add that in January PCTEL made another strategic accusation, we acquired Wi-Sys


Communications, a Canadian-based company specializing in GPS antenna and receiver


technology. We are well aware that we already discussed that with you in our last call.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who will discuss our financial


performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on our progress over the past quarter and what


we see in the future.


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty, and good afternoon or evening to everyone. Our investors will know that the


company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes


that presentation of operating profit and net income, excluding restructuring charges, non-cash
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


based expense including stock and stock option-based compensation, amortization and impairment


of the tangible assets, and goodwill related to the company’s acquisitions, gains or losses on the


sale of product lines, and non-cash based income tax expense, provide meaningful supplemental


information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the


company’s core results and facilitates comparisons across the reporting periods. For more


information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation to GAAP measures, please refer


to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be


found on our website at pctel.com under Investor Relations. My discussion of results will be based


on our non-GAAP financial results.


Also as a reminder, the company sold its Mobility Solutions software group or MSG to Smith Micro


in January of 2008. The company’s financial statements have been revised to reflect MSG as a


discontinued operation. My discussion of financial results will address continuing operations.


Let’s turn to revenue. First quarter 2009 revenue from continuing ops was 14.1 million compared to


18.3 million in the first quarter of 2008, a decrease of 23%. Revenue was lower for both scanning


receivers and antenna products. Scanning receiver revenue was lower on reduced carrier capital


expenditure level worldwide. Antenna revenue was lower in both the distribution and OEM


channels, reflecting particular softness in Land Mobile Radio and defense-related antenna sales.


The Wi-Sys acquisition that Marty mentioned earlier contributed $450,000 of revenue in the quarter.


Let’s turn to gross profit. Despite lower revenues, non-GAAP gross profit margin from continuing


ops for the first quarter was 48%, unchanged from the same period last year. The first quarter 2009


contained a higher mix of scanning receiver revenue than the first quarter last year. The higher


scanning margin percent relative to antennas offset the cost of lower overall volume over fixed


costs.


Now let’s turn to operating expenses. First quarter non-GAAP R&D and SG&A from continuing ops


was 6.6 million, that’s down $100,000 from the same quarter last year. R&D expense was higher by


500,000 on engineering investments and scanning receivers and antennas, as well as the


acquisition of Wi-Sys. SG&A is $600,000 lower due to the closure of several unproductive sales


offices and the restructuring our antenna manufacturer’s representative sales channel. The


Conexant royalty of 200,000 was unchanged from last year.


Let’s review then our non-GAAP operating income. Non-GAAP operating income from continuing


operations in the first quarter was $386,000, or 3% of revenue, compared to 2.4 million, or 13% of


revenue, in the same period last year. The results reflect lower gross profit dollars on lower


revenue. The non-GAAP operating income impact of the Wi-Sys acquisition in the quarter was


nominal due to integration costs. The integration is expected to be completed in the second quarter


with 50 to $100,000 per quarter accretive effect starting in the third quarter.


While not a part of non-GAAP operating income, I would like to give some background on the


company’s 1.3 million goodwill impairment charge incurred in the first quarter. This represents all of


the company’s remaining goodwill, including $384,000 related to the licensing segment and


922,000 just acquired with Wi-Sys. This impairment was caused by the accounting rules governing


goodwill impairment as it relates to the total company’s current market capitalization versus the


book value of our assets. It is not reflective of management’s long-term projected discounted cash


flow of the underlying company operations.


Now let’s turn to other income. Other income was $165,000 compared to 784,000 a year ago.


There are two factors contributing to the significant decline. Last year in Q1 we had $41 million


more in cash and investments, primarily from the sale of MSG. The cash was utilized over the last


12 months for a one-time dividend, the stock buyback program and the acquisition of Wi-Sys. The


second factor for the decline is the overall decline in interest rates since last year. With regard to


income taxes, the non-GAAP income tax rate in the quarter was 18%.