raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the PCTEL incorporated first quarter 2006 earnings


conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time I like to turn call over to Chairman and


Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marty Singer, please go ahead sir.


Martin H. Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. On behalf of PCTEL, I'd like to welcome you to our earnings release conference


call for the first quarter. I want to all of attending and for your interest in our company’s progress.


My name is Marty Singer and I am PCTEL’s Chairman and CEO. With me today are John Schoen


our Chief Financial Officer and Jack Seller, Director of Marketing. As we have done in the past,


John will review our financial performance in some detail and will review our balance sheet and


other issues. I will cover the general state of the business, discuss highlights of the past quarter,


and then I will discuss some areas of focus for 2006. We will then open the call to your questions.


The company will provide a transcript of our prepared comments on our web site fifteen minutes


after the call. With that as background, John will read the safe harbor statement and then provide a


financial overview. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of the company I will read the safe harbor


statement. Safe Harbor Statement. Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance,


and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses, are forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor. Actual results may differ materially from


those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our


wireless products business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP,


realize product and manufacturing efficiencies and reductions in cost as a result of the


discontinuance of manufacturing in Ireland, and the ability to integrate acquired businesses and


products.


Our litigation expenses are dependent on a number of factors, not all of which are within our


control. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company’s business and


prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today and


we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent events. This concludes the


Safe Harbor Statement.


Now, I will continue with the financial review. Our investors will note that the company now presents


non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of


results excluding non-cash based expense including stock option expense and other stock-based


compensation as well as amortization of intangible assets related to the company’s acquisitions,


provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP


financial analysis reflects the Company’s core operating results and facilitates comparisons across


reporting periods. My discussion of results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


Let's turn to revenue. First quarter 2006 total revenue was $18.6 million compared to $15.0 million


in the first quarter of 2005. This represents a 24% increase from the first quarter last year.


Approximately 12% of the growth is organic and 12% came from the recently acquired iVET and


PMR antenna product lines. The 2006 first quarter revenue includes wireless product revenue of
raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


18.2 million, up from 14.5 million last year, and licensing revenue of 0.4 million compared to 0.5


million a year ago.


Now I will speak to the trends by segment. Our Antenna Products Group revenue for the first


quarter was 12.4 million, up 20% from a year ago. Approximately 17% of the increase reflects iVET


and PMR revenue, acquired in 2005. We had growth of 3% in our established antenna product


lines. The organic growth comparison was adversely impacted by a continued softness in some of


our mobile antenna product lines. RF Solutions Group revenue was 3.7 million in the quarter, up


20% from the first quarter last year. This segment continues to benefit from the roll out of UMTS


networks and the related need for 3G scanners. We believe that this group also benefits when


carriers slow down capital investments and must achieve greater capacity with their existing


infrastructure. Our scanning products enable cellular network engineers to optimize the


performance of their current networks.


The Mobility Solutions Group revenue in the first quarter was $2.1 million, up 89% from the first


quarter last year. The company saw increase in revenue in both its established wireless data


products as well as its IMS revenue. Licensing segment revenue was 0.4 million compared to 0.5


million in the first quarter last year. This segment continues to be affected this year by completion of


older licensing agreements and the global decline in analog modem sales and modem prices.


Now I would like to speak to revenue guidance for the second quarter of 2006 and update our


guidance for the year. Second quarter revenue is expected to be between 19 to 20 million. We


expect licensing to be approximately 400,000 of that. With respect to annual guidance we are


refining our anticipated range. We are lowering the range to 86 to 92 million from 93 to 98 million.


This takes into account the softness that we have seen in both our mobile antennas and the


forecasting challenges that we have had with the iVET product line. We anticipate revenues by


segment as follows: APG: 59 to 64 million; MSG and RFS combined to 26 million; and Licensing at


1 to 2 million. Again, our greatest revenue risk is associated with antennas. However, from a net


income perspective, this revenue risk is offset somewhat by our revised gross margin forecast that


we will discuss next.


Now let's turn to gross margin. Aggregate pro-forma gross margin for the first quarter was 47.4%


compared to 49.5% for the first quarter last year. I will speak to each of the segments individually.


Antenna products gross margin was 30.0% in the first quarter, down 4.4 points from 34.4% in the


first quarter last year, or about 0.5 million on a $12.4 million revenue base. As we reported in our


recently filed 8-K, we will be discontinuing our manufacturing operations in the Dublin factory by


midyear. Marty will comment further on this. We anticipate that when implemented, our outsourced


iVET manufacturing approach will yield gross profit margins that are comparable with our other


antenna product lines. Our guidance for Antenna Products Group gross margin percent in the


second quarter is in the low thirties. This reflects the continuation of the variances in the first


quarter related to our Dublin factory as well as continued improvement in our other antenna product


lines. 2006 annual guidance for APG is in the low to mid thirties.


RF Solutions gross margin was 70% in the first quarter compared to 75% a year ago. There was a


heavier mix of software last year. We expect margins going forward to be about the same. Mobility


Solutions gross margin was 99% in the first quarter this year compared to 96% in the first quarter


last year. We expect gross margins to remain in the upper 90% range going forward. After taking


into account the potential revenue mix for the second quarter, total gross margin for the second


quarter is expected to be between 47 and 49%. Our view of 2006 annual gross margin based on


the revenue mix range previously discussed is between 48 and 50%.


Now let's turn to our operating expenses. Total non-GAAP operating expense was 9.4 million in the


first quarter compared to 8.6 million a year ago. R&D and SG&A were flat year-over-year at 9.1


million. Sigma added approximately 1 million in OpEx in the quarter year-over-year, which was


offset by lower patent litigation expense and other operational efficiencies. The gain in sales of