raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to today's PCTEL, Inc. Second Quarter 2006 Earnings


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marty Singer. Please go ahead sir,


Martin (Marty) H. Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. On behalf of PCTEL, welcome to our earnings release conference call for the second


quarter. Thank you all for attending and for your interest in our company’s progress. My name is


Marty Singer and I am PCTEL’s Chairman and CEO. With me today are John Schoen, our Chief


Financial Officer; and Jack Seller, Director of Marketing. As we have done in the past, John will


review our financial performance in some detail and then will review our balance sheet and other


issues. I will cover the general state of the business, discuss highlights of the past quarter, and then


I will discuss some areas of focus for 2006. We will then open the call to your questions. The


company will provide a transcript of our prepared comments on our website 15 minutes after the


call. With that as background, John will read the Safe Harbor statement and then provide a financial


overview. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of the company I will read the Safe Harbor


statement. Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal


securities laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations regarding


the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses are forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result


of risks and uncertainties, including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business,


implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP, realize product and


manufacturing efficiencies and reductions in cost as a result of the discontinuance of manufacturing


in Ireland, and the ability to integrate acquired businesses and products. Our litigation expenses are


dependent on a number of factors, not all of which are within our control.


Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is


contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim


any update information to reflect the subsequent events. This concludes the Safe Harbor


statement.


Now, I will continue with the financial review. Our investors will note that the company presents


non-GAAP financial information in its earnings releases. The company believes that presentation of


results excluding non-cash based expense including stock option expense and other stock-based


compensation as well as amortization of intangible assets related to the company’s acquisitions,


provide meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors. The non-GAAP


financial analysis reflects the company’s core operating results and facilitates comparisons across


reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results, please refer to our


earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with the SEC. The release can also be found


on our website under Investor Relations shortly after the call. My discussion of results will be based


on our non-GAAP financial results.


Second quarter 2006 total revenue was 26.8 million compared to 18.3 million in the second quarter


of 2005. Second quarter revenue includes perpetual licensing revenue of 7.0 million from our recent


resolution of the IP dispute with Agere. Without this resolution revenue is up 8% over the second


quarter 2005.
raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)
 
2


Now I will speak to the trends by segment. Our Antenna Products Group revenue for the second


quarter was 12.8 million, down 5% from the second quarter last year. Results were unfavorably


impacted by the termination of the satellite radio antennas for Retail Outlets product line last year


due to low long-term margin projections. Approximately 2.4 million of last year’s second quarter


revenue was related to those products. Revenue was favorably impacted by our acquisition of the


iVET and LMR product lines during the third quarter of 2005. Those products added approximately


1.7 million in revenue to the quarter compared to last year.


RF Solutions Group revenue was 4 million in the quarter, up 21% from the second quarter last year.


The segment continues to benefit from the roll out of UMTS networks and the related need for 3G


scanners.


The Mobility Solutions Group revenue in the second quarter was 2.7 million, up 104% from the


second quarter last year. The company saw an increase in revenue in both its established wireless


data products as well as its IMS revenue.


Licensing segment revenue was 7.4 million compared to 0.3 million in the second quarter last year.


7 million of the increase relates to a perpetual license granted Agere in conjunction with the IP


dispute resolution.


Now I will speak to the revenue guidance for the third quarter of '06. Third quarter revenue is


expected to be between 20.0 to 20.5 million. We expect licensing to be approximately $0.4 million


of that revenue.


Now let's move on to gross margin. I will speak to gross margins in each of the segments


individually. Antenna Products gross margin was 33.2% in the second quarter, up 3.1 points from


the first quarter this year. We indicated earlier in the year that we are incurring significant


manufacturing cost variances in our Dublin factory and that we would be discontinuing operations


there sometime in the third quarter.


The initiative continues on schedule and we expect it to be completed in August. Our guidance for


Antenna Products Group gross margin percent in the third quarter is an improvement of about 1


percentage over the second quarter.


RF Solutions Group gross margin was 72% in the second quarter compared to 69% a year ago.


There was a heavier mix of software this year. We expect margins going forward to be about the


same.


Mobility Solutions gross margin was 99% in the second quarter this year compared to 97% in the


second quarter last year. We expect gross margin to remain in the upper 90% range going forward.


After taking into account the potential revenue mix for the third quarter, total gross margin for the


third quarter is expected to be between 49 and 51%.


Now, let's turn to operating expenses. Total non-GAAP R&D and SG&A was 9.3 million in the


second quarter compared to 8.6 million a year ago. This increase year-over-year is primarily


attributed to the Sigma acquisition. The gain in sales of assets and related royalties of 250,000


compared to 0.5 million the same – compares to the 0.5 million year-over-year. That's because the


company restructured its royalty agreement with Conexant last year, which yields lower quarterly


payment caps for them in return for a larger long-term revenue stream for PCTEL.


The company recorded a restructuring benefit of 1.3 million related to the Dublin factory closing in


the quarter, and a gain of $0.7 million to-date. The second quarter 2006 restructuring activity had


three components. The company incurred 0.9 million in severance cost and 0.4 million of inventory


impairment cost. The company also wound down its defined benefit pension plan in Dublin, yielding