corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the PCTEL Third


Quarter 2009 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


open the call up for questions. Instructions for queuing up will be provided at that time. As a


reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.


I will now turn the call over to Jack Seller, Director of Marketing.


Jack Seller, Marketing and Public Relations


Thank you for joining us today, October 29, 2009 for the PCTEL financial results conference call for


the third quarter 2009. On today’s call will be Marty Singer, Chairman and CEO, and John Schoen,


Chief Financial Officer.


Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities


Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance, new products, and product


development and expectations regarding the future growth of our wireless RF business are


forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual results may differ


materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties including the ability to


successfully grow our wireless product business, implement new technologies, and obtain


protection for the related IP. Additional discussion of these and other factors affecting the


Company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings. These statements are


made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update information to reflect subsequent


events.


I would now like to turn the conference call over to Marty Singer.


Martin (Marty) H. Singer, Ph. D., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jack and good afternoon. For those of you who have not had a chance to read our


press release, I’d like to recap some of the non-GAAP highlights from the quarter on a continuing


operations basis. We achieved revenue of 13.7 million. Non-GAAP gross profit margin was 47%.


Non-GAAP operating margin was 3%. Non-GAAP net income was 669,000 or $0.04 per diluted


share. Cash and investments were $78 million. Economic conditions remain challenging worldwide


but we are pleased that our early actions and our continued attention to costs have enabled us to


remain profitable on a non-GAAP basis. In this process, we have lowered our non-GAAP


breakeven point to $13 million of revenue per quarter.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to John Schoen, our CFO, who’ll discuss our financial


performance in some detail. Later, I will comment on our progress over the past quarter and what


we see in the future. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Marty and good afternoon or evening to everyone. The Company disclosed in its


earnings press release that we intend to amend the first and second quarter 2009 filings on Form


10-Q/A to correct misstatements primarily related to business combination goodwill and tax issues


of our January 2009 purchase of Wi-Sys Communications.
corrected transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I want to take a minute to discuss the changes that will be filed. First, let me be clear, the


Company’s revenue, cash flow and non-GAAP earnings are unaffected. In the first quarter, the


GAAP goodwill impairment expense should be $222,000 higher than reported and income tax


expense should be $127,000 higher than reported for a total change of 349,000. In the second


quarter, income tax expense should be $274,000 lower than reported. The net effect for year-to-


date is $75,000.


To summarize the effect on GAAP net loss, the first-quarter net loss should be 1.9 million instead of


the 1.5 million loss reported. The second quarter should be a loss of 1.3 million instead of the $1.6


million reported and the year-to-date loss would be 3.2 million instead of the 3.1 reported. The


effect on GAAP earnings per share for the period is Q1 earnings should be a net loss of $0.11


instead of $0.09 or a 2% change. And going in the other direction in Q2 the loss should be $0.07


instead of $0.09 with year-to-date earnings per share unchanged.


The Company expects to amend its filings on form 10-Q/A for the first and second quarters


reflecting these changes as soon as practicable. The Company is still evaluating the level of


internal control deficiency that the misstatements represent and expects to report on its conclusion


in the third quarter 10-Q and the 10-Q/As for Q1 and Q2.


Our investors will note that the Company presents non-GAAP financial information in its earnings


releases. The Company believes that presentation of gross profit, operating profit, and net income


excluding restructuring charges and non-cash based expense including stock and stock option-


based compensation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill related to the


Company’s acquisitions, gains or losses on the sale of product lines and related note receivable,


and non-cash based income tax expense, provide meaningful supplemental information to both


management and investors.


The non-GAAP financial analysis reflects the Company’s core results and facilitates comparisons


across reporting periods. For more information on our non-GAAP financial results and reconciliation


to GAAP measures, please refer to our earnings release that has been filed under Form 8-K with


the SEC. The release can also be found on our website under Investor Relations. My discussion of


results will be based on our non-GAAP financial results.


Just as a reminder, the Company sold its Mobility Solutions Software Group and MSG to Smith


Micro in January ‘08. The Company’s financial statements have been revised to reflect MSG as a


discontinued operation. My discussion of financial results will address continuing operations.


Let’s turn to revenue. Third quarter 2009 revenue from continuing ops was 13.7 million. This


compares to 20.1 million in the third quarter of 2008, a decrease of 32%, but an increase from the


13.4 million in revenue reported last quarter. Revenue was lower for both scanning receivers and


antenna products on a year-over-year basis although antenna revenue was up from the second


quarter of this year.


We believe that reduced scanning receiver revenue reflects several factors. As carriers prepare for


the transition for EVDO to LTE, network engineers are protecting their reduced capital budgets and


waiting for new technology rollout before consuming their budgets. And while test tools enable


network engineers to realize greater capacity from existing infrastructure, capital budgets are lower


worldwide.


Antenna revenue declined on a year-over-year basis in both the OEM and distribution channels


reflecting particular softness in Land Mobile Radio systems, continued delays in mobile WiMAX


rollout and defense-related antenna sales.