raw transcript


PC-Tel, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby the conference is about to begin. Today everyone is welcomed today’s


PCTEL Inc. Third Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this


time I would like to turn the call over the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Martin Singer.


Please go ahead sir.


Martin H. Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. Oh behalf of PCTEL, welcome to our Earnings Release Conference Call for


the third quarter. I want to thank you all attending and for your interest in our company’s progress.


My name is Martin Singer and I am PCTEL’s Chairman and CEO; with me today our John Schoen,


our Chief Financial Officer and Steve Deppe who is President of the Antenna Product Group, and


Jack Seller, Director of Marketing. As we have done in the past, John will first review our financial


performance in some detail and then, we will review our balance sheet and other issues. After he


is done, I will cover the general state of the business, discuss highlights of the past quarter and I


then I will discuss some areas of focus for the remainder of the year. We will then open the call for


your questions. With that as background, John will read the Safe Harbor Statement and then


provide a financial overview. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of the company, I will read the Safe Harbor


Statement. Today’s call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal


Securities Laws. Comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations


regarding the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses are forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor. Actual results may differ materially from those


projected as a result of risks and uncertainties including the ability to successfully grow our wireless


products business, implement new technologies and obtain protection for the related IP and the


ability to integrate acquired businesses and products. Our litigation expenses are dependent on a


number of factors not all of which are within our control. Additional discussion of these and other


factors affecting the company’s business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC filings.


These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligations to update information


to reflect subsequent events. This concludes the Safe Harbor statements, now I will continue with


the financial review.


Let start with revenue. Third quarter 2005 total revenue was 21.6 million compared to 10.7 million


in the quarter of 2004. This represents a 102% increase from the third quarter last year. The 2005


third quarter numbers includes wireless product revenue of 21 million, up from 9.4 million last year


and licensing revenue of 0.6 million compared to 1.4 million a year ago.


Now, I will speak to the trends by segment. Our Antenna Products Group revenue for the third


quarter was 15.3 million compared with 5.7 million a year ago. Of the 9.6 million increase, 5.1


million came from the products acquired from Andrew in the fourth quarter 2004, 1.5 million came


from the recent acquisition of Sigma Wireless Technologies and the remaining 3 million of the


growth was organic. The organic growth represents a 53% increase over the third quarter last


year. The revenue related to the Sigma acquisition is lower than we guided in our last earnings call


due a to slower roll out of iVET antennas than anticipated.


RF Solutions' Group revenue was 3.7 million in the quarter, up 45% from the third quarter last year.


The results include a $0.3 million order from our OEM channels destined for Cingular. The
raw transcript


PC-Tel, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


segment continues to benefit from the roll out of UMTS networks and the related need for 3G


scanners. The Mobility Solutions' Group revenue in the third quarter was 2.1 million, up 84% from


the third quarter last year. MSG revenue by quarter was uneven in 2004 due to the timing of initial


customization fees and initial block purchases of rolling client licenses by carriers. The company is


seeing a more stable revenue trend in 2005 due to a combination of stable buying patterns from


several carriers and ratable revenue recognition of several contracts under revenue recognition


rules for software contracts. The revenue levels are indicative of the early state subscriber traction


of the carrier customer base.


Licensing segment revenue was 0.6 million compared to 1.4 million in the third quarter last year.


This segment continues to be affected this year by completion of older licensing agreements.


Absent any intellectual property litigation settlements is expected to be around 0.3 million in the


fourth quarter.


Now, I would like to speak to revenue guidance for the fourth quarter of 2005. Total revenue is


expected to be between 21.5 and 22 million. As previously stated we expect licensing revenue to


be approximately 0.3 million be approximately 0.3 million of that number. This takes our annual


2005 guidance to between $76.5 and $77 million. At this time we are offering revenue guidance for


2006 of between $95 million and a $105 million. The ranges by segment are $70 million to $80


million for APG, 13 to 14 million for RFS, 9 to 10 million for MSG, and 1 million for licensing. The


wide range in APG guidance is primarily related to uncertainty surrounding the pace of iVET


Antenna rollouts during 2006.


Now, I would like to turn to gross margin. Aggregate gross margin for the third quarter was 46.4%


compared to 58.5% for the third quarter last year. The gross margin trend at the total level is


indicative of the rapid growth of the Antenna Products group relative to other segment. I will


speech to each of the segments individually. Antenna products gross margin was 31.9% in the


third quarter compared to 41.7% in the third quarter last year and 36.2 in the second quarter of this


year.


During the quarter the company discontinued certainly Antenna products acquired from Andrew


they were identified as slow moving or where PCTEL had an overlapping product. The gross


margins results for the quarter include a $0.3 million charge or 2.2% of revenue to dispose of the


related inventory. To give a sense of scale to our margin improvement progress, the gross margin


without the inventory disposal charge and the addition of Sigma was 37.3% which is comparable to


the 41.7% margin in the third quarter and the 362 that we did in the second quarter. As we’ve said


previously the Andrew products have an inherently lower margin than the MAXRAD products which


makeup all of the revenue in the third quarter last year. Management continues to target a long


term margin between 38 and 39% for the blended MAXRAD and Andrew-acquired products. Total


gross margin for the segment with Sigma is expected to be in the 34.5 to 35% range in the fourth


quarter which is an improvement over the third quarter.


RF Solutions gross margins was 69.3% in the third quarter compared to 66% a year ago. We


expect margins going forward to be in the 67 to 72% range. Mobility Solutions’ gross margin was


99% in the third quarter this year compared to 95% in the third quarter last year. We expect gross


margins to remain in 96 to 99% rang going forward.


After taking into account potential revenue mix for the fourth quarter, total gross margin for the


fourth quarter is expected to be between 47 and 48 percent. Our preliminary view of 2006 gross


margin based on the revenue mix previously discussed is between 47.5 and 48.5 percent.


Now let’s talk about operating expenses. Our investors will have noticed that we have added to our


earnings release a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings to highlight the effective


accounting for non-cash expenses related to stock-based compensation and amortization of


intangible assets from the company’s acquisition. Total OpEx was 10.9 million in the third quarter