raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone. Welcome to today's PCTEL, Inc., First Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to the


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Marty Singer. Please go ahead, sir.


Martin Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Paul [ph]. Good morning, everyone. I apologize for the early start to those of you on the


West Coast. I'm Marty Singer, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PCTEL. On behalf of


PCTEL we thank you for joining us our earnings call for the first quarter. In this call we will address


the financial results of the first quarter and the outlook for PCTEL in the second quarter of 2005.


Joining me today is John Schoen, our Chief Financial Officer. John will take you through our


financial performance for the first quarter, as well as limited financial guidance for the second


quarter of 2005. I will then comment on some of those results and turn our attention to the


significant events that transpired during the first quarter and discuss our plans going forward. John?


John Schoen, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer


Hello everyone. Before I begin my financial review of the company I will read the Safe Harbor


statement. Today's call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal


Securities Laws, comments concerning our future financial performance and expectations


regarding the future growth of our wireless and licensing businesses including expansion through


investment and acquisition are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Safe Harbor.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of risks and uncertainties,


including the ability to successfully grow our wireless products business, implement new


technologies and obtain protection for the related IP, the ability to integrate, acquire businesses and


products and the risks associated with future acquisitions. Our litigation expenses are dependent


on a number of factors, not all of which are within our control. Additional discussion of these and


other factors affecting the company's business and prospects is contained in our periodic SEC


filings. These statements are made only as of today and we disclaim any obligation to update


information to reflect subsequent events. This concludes the Safe Harbor statement.


Now I will continue with the financial review. First quarter 2005 revenue was 15 million, compared


to 10.7 million in the first quarter of 2004. The 2005 numbers includes wireless product revenue of


14.5 million, up from 8.6 million last year, and licensing revenue of 0.5 million compared to 2.1


million a year ago. I will speak to the trends by segment. Our Antenna Products Group formerly


MAXRAD was acquired in January 2004 and we recently completed the fifth quarter of its


operations under PCTEL. It was supplemented by the acquisition of several Antenna Products lines


from Andrew Corporation on October 29, 2004. Revenue in the first quarter 2005, including the


Andrew acquisition was 10.3 million. Organic revenue growth for the non-Andrew acquired products


was 14% over last year. The organic growth was largely driven by wireless broadband applications.


RF Solutions Group revenue was 3.1 million in the quarter, up 30% from the first quarter last year.


The company benefited from a large order through one of its OEM customers that is destined for


the U.S. Navy.


The Mobility Solutions Group revenue in the first quarter was 1.1 million, about the same as the first


quarter last year. The revenue levels are indicative of the early stage subscriber traction of the


carrier customer base.
raw transcript


PCTEL, Inc.
 
PCTI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Licensing segment revenue was 0.5 million compared to 2.1 million in the first quarter last year.


This segment continues to be affected this year by completion of older licensing agreements. It will


continue to decline in 2005 absent any intellectual property litigation settlements.


Now I would like to speak to revenue guidance for the second quarter of 2005. Total revenue is


expected to be between 15.5 and 16 million, comprised of wireless revenue in the range of 15.2 to


15.7 million and licensing revenue of approximately 300,000. We are raising our total annual 2005


guidance from 60 to 64 million to a range of 63 to 65 million.


Now let's turn to gross margin. Gross margin for the first quarter was 49.6% compared to 65% for


the first quarter last year. Gross margin at the total level is not comparable year-over-year due to


decline in licensing revenue and the increased antenna revenue. I will speak to each of the


segments individually. Antenna Products gross margin was 34.4% in the first quarter, compared to


41.8% in the first quarter last year. There was a 4.5 percentage points of margin consumed by


duplicative manufacturing costs in the first quarter related to the transition of the Andrew product


lines out of Andrew's factory. The transition is now complete, the remaining variation from last


year's results from slightly lower margins on the Andrew products in the mix. We expect margins to


settle in the 38% to 39% range going forward based on FX.


RF Solutions gross margin was 76% in the first quarter compared to 68% in the first quarter of


2004. The first quarter benefited from a heavy concentration of OEM receiver and software


products, which have higher margins than our system sales. We expect margins going forward to


be in the 67% to 72% range. Mobility Solutions gross margin was 97% in both the first quarter this


year and last year. We expect gross margin to remain in the 96% to 98% range going forward. After


taking into account the potential ranges of revenue mix for the second quarter, total gross margin


for the second quarter is expected to be between 49.5% and 50.5%.


Now I would like to address our operating cost structure. Our investors will have noticed that we


have changed the income statement presentation of stock-based compensation expense. Rather


than presenting it on a single line of the income statement, it is now spread to the various income


statement categories as required by recent SEC guidance. Total OpEx was 10.1 million in the first


quarter. This represents an increase of 1 million in cash based R&D and SG&A, 300,000 of –


increase of amortization of non-cash based stock compensation and 200,000 of amortization of


intangible.


The increase from R&D and SG&A includes 0.6 million of transition costs related to the Andrew


acquisition with the remaining 0.4 million comprised of increased investments in Antenna Products


partially offset by reductions in corporate cost and reductions that related to our SoftAP product in


MSG, taken in the fourth quarter last year. Costs related to patent litigation were flat year-on-year at


0.5 million. And 0.3 million increase in stock based compensation is driven by the company’s


decision to issue restricted shares in 2005 in lieu of cash compensation and stock options.


Restricted shares are expensed to the income statement, under both the current accounting rule,


as well as FAS 123R, which goes into affect in 2006. The 0.2 million increase in amortization of


intangibles related to the Q4 2004 acquisition of Antenna Product lines from Andrew. The Conexant


royalty was unchanged from the first quarter last year at 0.5 million. Guidance for the second


quarter 2005 OpEx is 9.7 million to 9.9 million. This includes 8.5 million to 8.7 million of cash based


R&D and SG&A, 0.8 million of non-cash amortization of stock-based compensation, 0.9 million of


intangible amortization, offset by 0.5 million of royalty income from Conexant. Now let's turn to other


income. Other income generated primarily from short-term cash investments, was 0.5 million in the


first quarter compared to 0.2 million a year ago. Second quarter 2005 other income is expected to


be approximately 0.4 million.


I would like to speak to the company's tax provision now. PCTEL provides a full valuation reserve


on its deferred tax assets. This, coupled with a limited remaining tax loss carry-back available, will