corrected transcript


Petroleum Development Corp.
 
PETD
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Petroleum Development First Quarter 2009 Results. At


this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the


formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


On the call today from Petroleum Development we have Richard McCullough, Chairman and CEO;


Bart Brookman, Senior Vice President of Exploration and Production, and Gysle Shellum, CFO.


It is now my pleasure to hand it over to your host, Mr. Richard McCullough. Thank you, Mr.


McCullough. You may begin.


Richard W. McCullough, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator. And good afternoon, and welcome to the first quarter call. I call your attention


first to the disclaimer that is in the handouts. We will be making forward-looking comments this


afternoon, and would caution you to read the risk components in the disclaimer.


I’m going to kick off the call, make a few initial comments and then turn the call over to Bart to cover


first quarter operational results, and then Gysle to speak to the financial results of the first quarter.


The first observation I would make is I think this was a very good quarter for PDC in spite of the


challenging market conditions. I’ve read some of the early analysis that has been put out and


there’s been language used around the fact that we perhaps missed our EPS targets, that we may


have some challenges as far as CapEx overspend, called attention to the DD&A costs, which are


up for the quarter and also G&A. We’re going to try to address each of those issues on today’s call.


But the first thing that I’d say is we really didn’t miss our first quarter EPS, I think, it was more of an


issue, as you may recall, we issued guidance rather late this year primarily because of ongoing


revisions that we were making in our CapEx budgets as prices were changing and then we actually


had to reschedule our guidance call, but I would caution everybody to go back and really look at the


guidance that we issued on March 19. And a lot of the comments that I’m going to be making in the


kickoff are really kind of tied back to that guidance.


With that I’d say really DD&A was the only kind of negative surprise in the quarter, and Gysle will


address that in his section. This first slide you’ve seen before. And for the first quarter of ‘09,


production was up slightly over fourth quarter. When you looked at the revenue side in guidance,


we had actually given a range. In all these numbers, the guidance numbers were predicting


revenues between 58 and $68 million on a quarterly basis. First quarter revenues were 66 million.


So actually on the high-end of the guidance range.


When you looked at realized gas and oil prices, we have consistently shown our hedging slide with


projected gas prices for 2009 in the high $6 range, close to $7. We actually exceeded that in the


first quarter at 7.08. The unrealized gas prices, the prices without – I’m sorry, the un-hedged gas


prices without the hedges were $3.79. So it was a challenging quarter from a pricing point of view.


But our hedges have really contributed almost $3.00 in the quarter to revenues per unit this quarter.


Adjusted EBITDA of almost 49 million, our guidance for the year was somewhere between 32 and


40 million. So we exceeded the high end of our guidance. Adjusted cash flow from operations


almost $40 million, again, guidance was in the range of 25 to 30 million. So again on the high end


of the range.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Development Corp.
 
PETD
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Adjusted net income, adjusted net income is net income adjusted for the unrealized hedging losses,


quarterly results were a little over $4 million. We had actually projected a range on net income; the


high end of the range was about $3 million on a quarterly basis, so again we exceeded the


guidance. And finally, a metric that we trace and track pretty closely as an important metric. Cash


flow operations, $2.69. Our guidance was in the range of $1.76 to 2.14. Just some of the high spots


from an operational point of view.


Our operating groups are continuing to focus on cost control and judicious spending of CapEx. The


first-quarter results compared to fourth quarter, we saw a 14% reduction in unit lifting cost, and a


28% reduction in production and well operation expenses. Our actual production was right in line


with forecast, up 32% year-over-year. And we continued to -- and Bart will address this, ramp up


our activities and increase our focus on our Marcellus exploratory play.


On the financial side, that first item I’ve already addressed. The hedges were very effective this first


quarter. One of the -- one of the impacts of the unrealized losses on hedges is really the basis trade


that we did at the end of ‘08. I’d remind you that that’s really a -- a trade that covers the next four


years. And so you saw an unusually high negative hit to unrealized losses this first quarter because


of the narrowing of prices in general. We’re still comfortable with the trade and think this will turn


around in the future.


We talked about adjusted net income. We talked about the continued cash flow. DD&A rates and


again Gysle will cover this more in detail, but the surprise for the quarter was largely due to the


downward revisions that we took in our reserve numbers at the end of the fourth quarter and how


that flows through our DD&A calculation.


Recurring G&A rates were actually down when you adjust for a non-recurring item. And really when


you look at our guidance was up only slightly, maybe about $1 million on a quarterly basis year-


over-year. But liquidity which is a very important metric for us is still maintaining right under the


$200 million range. And it’s something that we continue to track very closely.


Our hedges remain very much in the money, $130 million as of the balance sheet date. We’ll focus


on our CapEx discussions today. We’re still looking at spending in the 108 to $120 million range.


Probably the low end of that range as Bart will really explain. And our liquidity is – showing there at


March 31 of $194 million. We continue to spend a lot of time on cost reduction and operational


enhancement. I think you’re starting to see the impact of some of those results in the lower


operating expenses in the first quarter. And Gysle will update everybody on the bank


redetermination and the extension of the line. We expect that to be resolved, actually favorably


within the next 30 days or so.


So in summary again, from my perspective, a very good quarter and a challenging market


condition. I think we made particularly good progress in things that are within our control. The – we


continue to work on the internal strategic assessment work. This is really an effort focused on how


we can continue to improve and enhance results in our projects and really how we maybe try to


position the company to really – as the market improves to take full advantage of the improving


market.


I’d say that while pricing remains challenging, the company because of its hedge position,


particularly for 2009 and ‘10 and it’s – our efforts to drive down cost and enhance operational


efficiencies, we remain very well-positioned and actually believe that as the market does begin to


turn, you’ll see very positive results from the company.


With that, I’ll turn it over to Bart Brookman, who’s going to cover the operational highlights.