corrected transcript


Petroleum Development
 
PETD
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Petroleum Development


Corporation’s First Quarter 2005 Earning Results Conference Call. At this time, all parties are in a


listen-only mode, and there will be a question and answer session following the formal


presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now


my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Steven Williams, Chief Executive Officer of Petroleum


Development Corporation.


Steven R. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. I am Steve Williams and I am here with Darwin Stump, who is our Chief


Financial Officer, who is going to review the first quarter results. Today, in the course of our


discussions we will be going through or making some forward-looking statements and as you are


probably all aware from past experiences, not all of those statements may come to be true, we


certainly make the best estimates and guesses we can as far as future occurrences. But, you


should take into account the fact that we can’t predict the future with certainty any more than


anyone else can.


With that, I would like to go and turn it over to Darwin Stump, our CFO to review the financial


portion of the first quarter reports that we just filed.


Darwin L. Stump, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Great, thank you, Steve, and thank all of you for joining us today on our earnings conference call.


As everyone has seen the Q and the news release, we’ve had a record first quarter this year,


where it was record revenue, net income and adjusted cash flow for us. We were able to reduce


long-term debt from 21 million, down to 18 million. We had capital expenditures of $20 million in


the first quarter. Some of the items that we spent our money on was the partnership investment


with our 2005 A drilling program, some NECO infill wells that we’ve been drilling, an exploratory


well called Coffeepot Springs which we started during the first quarter and 25 Wattenberg


recompletions following upon our success we’ve had in the prior couple of years with those


recompletion efforts.


Revenue also included a 5.2 million gain we had for some of the sales and undeveloped Colorado


lease that we had. That amount to 20 cents per share after tax of our 80 cents earnings per share


for the quarter.


The adjusted cash flow for the first quarter from operations was 21.3 million, and the uses of those


was the drilling and development that we did of $20.1 million, along with our $3 million of debt


retirement.


The first quarter revenue was $83.4 million, that’s up from 71 million for the first quarter of 2004.


The increase in revenue reflects the higher oil and gas prices, the increased production and drilling


activity for the first quarter along with the Colorado lease sale which contributed $5.2 million to that


revenue increase.


The net income was also a record for Petroleum Development Corporation. That was $13.3 million


for the quarter. That’s up from $8.4 million during the first quarter of 2004. That gave us earnings


per share of 80 cents compared to 52 cents in the first quarter of 2004, and that would be diluted


earnings per share. 20 cents as we mentioned before, 20 cents of the earnings per share after tax
corrected transcript


Petroleum Development
 
PETD
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


was from the lease sale, however that would still give us a gain from 52 cents per share last year to


60 cents this year from operations. So, we did have a – excluding the lease sale we did have an 8


cents per share gain from the first quarter of last year. That's an increase of 15.4 percent.


The adjusted cash flows mentioned before is 21.3 million. That is up from 15.7 million for the same


period in 2004. Adjusted cash flow is a measurement that we like to use. It is income before


deferred income taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization. We believe that that is a relevant


way to measure our performance as most oil and gas companies use the cash flow measurement.


Steve, I will turn over the production results and operating results to you now.


Steven R. Williams, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Okay, thank you, Darwin, I appreciate it. We did see a return after a fairly flat production last year,


return to an increase in production of 4.1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. Our Rocky


Mountain production was up 6.5% compared to the fourth quarter. It reflects, certainly the


partnership drilling is a part of it, but also which includes 42 wells, 29 successful wells in the


Wattenberg Field and 9 successful wells in the Piceance Basin. We also finished four wells out of


about a 20-well drilling program in NECO, our Northeast Colorado Properties where the company


has essentially a 100% working interest.


The NECO wells along with some 25 Wattenberg, Codell, recompletions went into production at


varying times during the first quarter. So, we don't have a full quarter of production on really any of


those wells. But, I think, that those combined with the partnership drilling are the increase that we


did see and we will have the full month – full quarter of production for those wells in the second


quarter. So, we hope to see a continued increase in production as we move into the next quarter.


Looking, again at the, a little more detail on the production. 82% natural gas in the first quarter of


2005 with 3.3 Bcf equivalent of production. The, it doesn’t again reflect the partnership activity, the


recompletions and our NECO infill drilling. The wells turned on line during first quarter included 38


partnership wells in which we own a 20% interest. 20 of the NECO infill wells where we have an


average of 85% working interest. And then 25 recompletions in Wattenberg field, those were wells


that we purchased in 1999, when we – 1999 and 2000 when we first moved into the area. And we


own a 100% working interest in those recompletions.


So, looking forward a little bit to the coming months we expect strong partnerships and sales will


continue to fund drilling revenue in the second and third quarters. In fact, at this point in time we’ve


closed partnerships in 2005, both significantly earlier than their normal scheduled closings and


that’s reflecting very strong interest in the markets in our partnerships. Both of those partnerships


closed at their maximum subscriptions of $40 million, the first one in January and the second one in


early April. So, that’s helped to provide us with a very strong carryover into the second quarter of


54.4 million, and we will add on to that the B partnership in addition. So, we’ve got lot of drilling to


do in the coming months in association with the partnership and those wells will certainly help us to


maintain and increase production going forward.


I think a lot of the growth we are looking for on our going forward is in our areas, where we are


working on the wells, largely in 100% working interests or very high working interest that being the


NECO properties and the Wattenberg recompletions. And we do have a significant amount of


activity planned in Northeast Colorado with another 60 wells planned going forward this year. We


will begin that drilling program later this month, I believe and if everything, if the rigs show up on


time and everything, and we should pretty much, once we start – progress pretty rapidly on that


program going forward. We also have another 50 to 65 Wartenberg field recompletions, and we


are pretty much carrying those add on an ongoing basis throughout the first and second quarters


and on into the third quarter, at least before we complete that program.