corrected transcript


Petroleum Development Corp
 
PETD
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 19, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Petroleum Development


Corporation’s Third Quarter 2005 Earning Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].
 
It is now my


pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Steven Williams, Chief Executive Officer of Petroleum


Development Corporation. Thank you Mr. Williams, you may begin.


Steven R. Williams, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you very much, I appreciate it, and welcome everybody to our third quarter earnings call,


delayed, I apologize for that, but hopefully we are back on track and we will be staying on track


going forward here, certainly that’s at the top of our priority list.


As we go forward today, I will be making some forward-looking statements. I am sure you are all


familiar with the cautions associated with them, but the bottom line is that while we – or will make


statements that we believe are based on reasonable information and to the best of our efforts,


certainly changes in the environment and other factors could result in differences between what we


expect to happen and what might happen in the future.


Besides myself today, I do have with me Darwin Stump, who will be going through some of the


information and if there are questions going to more technical areas, I will have Tom Riley, he is the


President of Petroleum Development Corporation and Eric Stearns, our Vice President of


Exploration and Production available as well.


I would like to begin today with a little bit with some information about the historical restatement


issues and impacts we have, as I’ve indicated earlier, completed the restatements of the pre-prior


years and the first quarters and, of course, the filings of the second and third quarter statements for


2005. I am happy to report, as we issued a press release yesterday that NASDAQ will be removing


the ‘E’ from our trading symbol tomorrow and we will be trading once again under the PETD


symbol, we are very happy to see the end of the E and at this point in time, I am sure you all are as


well. As we have indicated in previous press releases, when all was said and done with the


restatements, there was no cash flow effect from any of the restatement issues. They basically


affected the timing of recognition of income and expenses in several different areas of the company


financial statements. Probably the two principal impacts of those restatements, or reflected in


those restatements, was an impairment of some of our oil and gas properties in 2001 that resulted


when we re-drew the lines dividing the companies producing areas in the field, and some of the


smaller fields that resulted from that had impairments that were not recognized when all of the


fields were taken together.


And the second one, we changed or revised our estimates of retirement obligations and put that


back in 2003, at the time that that was first implemented. We had been recognizing retirement


obligations based on our historical experience for what it cost us and which – how many wells we


sold or gave away as opposed to plugging. And, the revised understanding of that rule is that you


basically have to recognize the entire potential retirement obligation, in this case plugging costs for


all wells regardless of your historical experience in that. Historically, we’ve only plugged about 10%


of the wells that we have disposed off. So, we are now recognizing potential retirement obligations


on 100% of the wells even though that’s not at all in line with our historical practices, but we believe


it to be in line with the current accounting rules.


Moving forward to the next slide, and sort of going from looking backwards to looking forwards, as


far as the sort of the impact that those changes might have or the magnitude of impacts those


changes have going forward, generally, they are fairly modest. The impact of changes to the


accounting in the DD&A area, in 2004 it changed by about a $198,000 compared to the previous
corrected transcript


Petroleum Development Corp
 
PETD
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 19, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


report and it was – basically we have a lower basis because of the impairments of properties in


2001 offset to some degree by the change in the methods that we are using for the DD&A. That’s


fairly small impact overall on the total DD&A of the company in that period. In addition, the change


from just reporting asset retirement obligations on what we expect to plug compared to the total


amounted to about $392,000 in 2004. Both, again a non-cash charge and just a recognition of the


potential or the present value of the potential future, plugging liability that, you know, that we think


may very well not come to pass but it is in concert with the reporting requirements.


One of the nice things about it I guess is eventually if we do sell or give away wells as opposed to


plug them, we will realize a gain on that sale associated with the retirement obligation that we have


recorded in the past. I guess one way to make a profit in the future will be to give away a bunch of


wells. We probably won’t choose that method.


The largest impact of all of the accounting changes was the shift from hedged treatment to non-


hedged treatments for derivatives and this can result in potentially significant changes in the timing


of the recognition of gains and losses on hedged positions. But, over the life of each particular


derivative there is no change. It just changes the period in which you might recognize that gain or


loss.


The understanding of what’s going on with the derivative, I think is going to really critical to


understanding what’s going with the financial statements of the company. So,


I want to talk a little bit about each of the two areas where we used derivatives and how this change


in accounting might impact those two areas. And, I am going to begin with the derivatives that are


associated with company production, the other area that we primarily use derivatives being, you


know, our natural gas marketing area, and I will address them here separately in just a second.


The non-hedge accounting basically requires us to recognize in the income statement increases


and decreases in the value of future hedge positions each quarter. You know, since we typically


may have hedges on our own oil and gas company – company oil and gas production that go out


as far as six quarters into the future that means that at times we may be recording five or six


quarters of change in future value of derivative positions in the current period. This can result in


periods particularly like what we saw over the last six months where there are large changes in


prices and very significant impacts on,, from these derivative positions in particular in the unrealized


area, because you may be recording like I said, you know, four or five periods in the future into the


current period. In addition to that of course you have the realized gains or losses on derivative


positions that are closed during a particular period, those two effects we are combining together


and reporting in a single line and it’s basically a risk line in our financial statements for the company


production.


You know, one of the peculiar impacts of this I think and one of the things that make it sort of


counterintuitive is that because the hedges are intended to protect against price movements in one


direction, generally downward, when the prices move upwards you tend to lose money on the


hedge positions. So, the perverse impact is that when prices are increasing we will see losses on


our unrealized losses and in-fact realized losses on our derivative positions that are recorded in the


income statement. Of course, we will not record the corresponding gains in potential future oil and


gas sales associated with those derivatives for the periods that are associated. And since our


derivative positions generally are less than a third and more typically 25% or less of our total


production, you know, you get an indication that during times when prices are rising, the company


is not doing very well when in fact, exactly the opposite is true and vice versa when prices are


moving downward we are going to see positive impacts from derivatives recorded from numerous,


periods, a number of periods in the future. Then we are going to make things look better than in


fact would be the case if those prices continued at the levels that they were at.


You know, I think that’s really the reason that we wanted to use hedge accounting in the first place


was to take it out of our financial statements. Because of some details in the ways that we use