Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
James Moore Trimble — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Petroleum Development Corp.
Gysle R. Shellum — Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Development Corp.
Barton R. Brookman — Senior Vice President-Exploration & Production, Petroleum Development Corp.
Lance Lauck — Senior Vice President-Business Development, Petroleum Development Corp.
Philip J. McPherson — Managing Director & Senior Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Welles W. Fitzpatrick — Senior Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Daniel Guffey — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Joe D. Allman — Senior Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Irene O. Haas — Senior Vice President & Equity Analyst, Wunderlich Securities, Inc.
David R. Tameron — Senior Analyst, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the PDC Energy 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

On the call today is Mr. James Trimble, President and Chief Executive Officer of PDC Energy. Joining Mr. Trimble on the call is Mr. Gysle Shellum, Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Barton Brookman, Senior Vice President, Exploration and Development.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. James Trimble. Mr. Trimble, you may begin.

Good morning and thank you all for joining us today to discuss PDC's second quarter results. As a part of our discussions, we will also reference the operational update, press release we issued yesterday. Joining me is Gysle Shellum, our CFO; and Bart Brookman, our Senior VP of Exploration and Production. I will discuss some of the highlights of the quarter and then Gysle and Bart will provide additional details.

For the second quarter net income was $9.2 million or $0.39 a share. Adjusted net income for the quarter, adjusting for unrealized gains on derivatives was a negative $2.4 million. But it's important to note that included in these numbers is the G&A for the second quarter severance charge of $6.7 million. Adjusted cash flow from operations for the second quarter was $34.1 million and $71.6 million for the six months ending June 30.

We're also very pleased with the operational performance in the second quarter. Production increased 21% from the second quarter of 2010 to a 11 Bcfe, up slightly above guidance of 10.9 Bcfe for the quarter. Year-over-year production growth was driven by positive contributions from the three core areas, Wattenberg, and horizontal Niobrara activity, the Marcellus Shale and the Appalachian Basin and the Permian Basin in West Texas.

We continue to execute on our partnership repurchase program and close on our second tranche of the partnerships totaling $43 million. We recently announced a third tranche of partnership repurchases with reserves of 21 Bcfe per $29.5 million. We expect the third tranche will close by year-end and plan to complete the entire partnership repurchase program by the end of 2012.

Capital expenditures were $79 million for the second quarter of 2011, not including the recent partnership repurchases. Expenditures are ahead of budget, primarily due to accelerated drilling and re-frac activity in the DJ Basin. We are drilling horizontal Niobrara wells in less than 10 days well below our budgeted to-drill timeline and the performance of those wells to-date have been excellent. Our vertical drilling and re-completion re-frac programs are also ahead of schedules in the Wattenberg field.

As announced, we increased our developmental capital budget for the full year to $293 million. The increase is largely committed to activity in our liquids-rich basin including the Wattenberg field which includes a horizontal Niobrara play and the Permian Basin.

Additionally, we have budgeted $73 million for previously announced partnership repurchases in 2011 and $31 million for exploration, leasehold and other miscellaneous capital expenditures, so a total capital expenditure of $397 million for 2011.

We now expect 2011, production to increase approximately 24% from 37.6 Bcfe in 2010 to 46.5 Bcfe. It's important to note that the expanded budget will have a much greater impact on 2012 production and cash flow as most of the expenditures will be in the fourth quarter 2011.

We're also very pleased with the performance of our Marcellus wells that were bought online at the end of the first quarter in 2011 and we have begun our drilling program for 2011 with the nine wells program and we expect to keep the rig throughout 2012.

In the Permian Basin, we're currently drilling the 12th well of our 26 well program for 2011 and are experiencing meaningful production growth from this emerging area for PDZ. Again, Bart will give more details on these shortly.

In the Piceance Basins, we expanded our drilling program from 12 to 17 for 2011. Once we have completed our 17th well, we will release the rig and spend the remainder of the year completing and turning these wells to production. We plan to resume our drilling program in mid 2012. Because of the five-year rule as it relates to PUD reserves, we will be moving some of our undeveloped locations from proved to probable. But this is not anticipated to be significant in the company's overall proved reserves.

Our total production costs for the quarter including lifting cost, production tax and other costs of wells, operations, and pipeline service, increased 23% from a year ago quarter, largely due to higher production volumes and to a lesser degree increased operating costs. As I'm sure all of you're aware we and the entire industry have seen cost pressures in most operating basins where activity is strong. We continue to identify initiatives to control and reduce our costs, where possible through better procedures for water handling, drilling, completion techniques and other operational improvements.

In summary, I'm very excited about PDC's existing asset base and the potential for strong organic growth. Most of our plays are in the very early stages of development and present significant upsides for PDC from a production and reserve standpoint.

We have an extremely talented and experienced staff and an excellent management team to execute our strategy of identifying opportunities to accelerate drilling, improve efficiency, optimize our returns, plus we will aggressively look for new opportunities to expand our core areas with bolt-on acquisitions and identify new areas where we can apply our operational expertise and skill sets. Additionally, we will continue to be good stewards of our balance sheet as we work diligently and prudently grow PDC and add value for our shareholders.

Finally, I have had the opportunity to meet a number of you in person, or by phone in the last few weeks, and I look forward to talking with many more of you in the coming weeks and months. We greatly appreciate your support and interest in PDC.

I will now turn the call over to Gysle for his financial review followed by Bart.

Thanks, Jim and thanks, everyone for joining us today. As usual, I'll provide an overview of our financial results. For more information please refer to our press release that was issued today as well as our 10Q that we filed earlier this morning.

Just a quick look at summary financial results, total sales of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil in the second quarter, excluding realized hedge gains and losses were up $23.5 million, or 48% compared to the second quarter of 2010, driven by increased production and higher commodity prices. Production in second quarter was up 21% from a year ago. Sales and commodity prices were also higher on the current quarter than in the same quarter last year. The weighted average wellhead price for the second quarter 2011 was $6.58 per Mcf equivalent, a 22% increase from the second quarter last year and a 13% increase from the first quarter of 2011.

In our call last quarter, we discussed pricing and volume adjustments that flowed through first quarter of sales and production. I mentioned at that time there will be some related adjustments in this quarter. Rather than go into detail of the adjustments that impacted gas and NGL, average sales prices in the second quarter. The sales price metrics for the six months ended June 30, tells the story more effectively. The average price for natural gas, NGLs and oil are all inline with the guidance we provided last May in our follow-up call to our earnings call.

The only significant adjustments that didn't wash itself out between periods is an adjustment to natural gas sales related to prior year sales that negatively impacted our realized natural gas price per Mcf by $0.07 for the six months ended. So average realized wellhead gas price per Mcf for the six months ended would have been $3.37 before the pricing adjustment. NGL and oil prices per barrel for the same period $40.71 and $91.27, respectively. These prices are before the impact of realized hedge gains and losses.

Our commodity mix in the current quarter was approximately 31% oil and NGLs and 69% natural gas. Again our stated goal was to continue to increase our oil and NGLs as a percentage of production in revenue. Production cost for the second quarter were $19 or $19.7 million or $1.79 per Mcfe compared to $1.77 in the second quarter last year and $1.92 for the first quarter of 2011. As Jim mentioned, production costs increased 23% from the year ago largely due to the 21% increase in production volumes, but also unit costs increased only slightly.

Also down from the first quarter of 2011, primarily as a result of significant workover expenses in the first quarter of this year, the increased production and higher commodity prices resulted in a $52.5 million operating margin in the quarter, a 61% improvement over the $32.7 million reported in the second quarter last year.

Operating margins increased to 72% of sales in the current quarter compared to 67% in the second quarter last year. First quarter 2011 operating margins were 70% of sales, so margins continued to improve largely due to improved pricing. Sales and operating margins exclude realized hedge gains and losses that are reflected in the cash flow and EBITDA results shown in the next three lines on this table.

Adjusted cash flow defined as cash flow from operations, excluding unrealized hedge gains and losses before changes in the working capital and adjusted EBITDA increased 18% and 35% respectively from the second quarter of 2010. The increases were largely due to the increased production and higher commodity prices, which more than offset the realized hedge gains which were over $6 million higher in the second quarter of 2010 than they were through the second quarter of 2011.

Adjusted EBITDA for diluted share was higher in the second quarter of 2011, despite higher weighted average shares outstanding in the quarter. Weighted average shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis in the second quarter were 23.7 million shares compared to 19.2 million shares in the comparable period last year.

DD&A increased 22% in the second quarter 2011, compared to the second quarter last year. The increase was largely attributable to the 21% increase in production between quarters. The DD&A rate for oil and gas production per unit increased only slightly to $2.82 per Mcfe in the second quarter 2011 compared to $2.78 in the second quarter last year.

G&A expense increased 97% to $19.5 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to the same quarter last year. The increase was due primarily to the $6.7 million pre-tax service charge that Jim mentioned earlier. The impact to net income of this charge was about $0.18 per share. Except for the severance charge, G&A to date is on track with our plan.

On the next slide, the top half of the page reflects results attributable to shareholders for the quarter and six months ended June 30 for Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which includes unrealized hedge gains and losses as well as discontinued operations. Unrealized gains in the second quarter of 2011 were $18.7 million compared to $4.4 million in the second quarter of 2010. The bottom half of the page shows net income and earnings per share with unrealized hedge gains and losses excluded. There's a reconciliation of these schedules in the appendix, this presentation and in this morning's press release as well.

For the 2011 current quarter, we reported an adjusted net loss of $2.4 million, which as I mentioned previously was negatively impacted by the $6.7 million pre-tax charge related to the severance.

The next slide our revolver borrowing base was increased to $350 million in May for this year as a result of our semi-annual redetermination. At June 30, we had $8.5 million drawn and a $19 million letter of credit outstanding against our availability. Our revolver, our convertible preferred notes and high yield bond maturities are reflected in the company slides. At the end of the second quarter of 2011, we had $343 million of available liquidity including $13 million in our PDC Mountaineer joint venture for the development of our Marcellus Shale properties.

One last comment on liquidity, you'll see in our 10-Q that accounts payable are unusually high at June 30 this year. This is due to our accrual for the $43.3 million acquisition of the partnerships we announced in June as well as an accrual for $8.1 million for settlement of royalty in our lawsuit in West Virginia, we talked about in the first quarter, it was finalized in second quarter. Both of these liabilities will be funded early in third quarter reducing our liquidity by $51.4 million.

Next slide reflects our weighted average hedge positions over the next five years. For the most – as most of you are familiar with this slide, the schedule is based on proved reserves at year end 2010. NYMEX pricing represents actual pricing for January through June of 2011 and strip pricing for the remainder of the year. I won't talk about all the numbers, we have hedged approximately 80% of our total crude oil production for the remainder of this year with floors averaging $83.38 and ceilings averaging about $88.62 and about 73% of next years production with average floors at $85.10 and ceilings at $115. So, crude gas production is hedged at about 68% for the remainder of 2011 and about 44% for 2012.

The 2011 average floor on gas prices is $5.17 per Mcf and average ceiling price is $5.61. For 2012, the average floor price is $5.04 per Mcf and the average ceiling price is $5.79. For details on our hedges, please refer to our disclosure on our 10-Q that we just filed this morning. We will continue to look for opportunities to increase our gas positions throughout the year as well as add to the years beyond 2012 for both oil and natural gas.

Next slide highlights our realized hedge prices on a quarterly basis for 2011. Our hedges for the remainder of the year are trending higher and compare favorably with the hedge prices last year. Overall, results for the quarter and six months ended June 30 are on target with our expectations and within range of our guidance provided to the market in March this year.

With that, I'll turn this over to Bart for a discussion on operations.

Thank you, Gysle. Hello everybody. Operationally, PDC had a very solid second quarter. Production exceeded our expectations. Our major capital programs are going extremely well and the results we are experiencing year-to-date on our capital program supported a recent expansion of our 2011 capital budget. The liquid mix for our total production stream continues to improve, and our lifting costs right in line with our expectations.

Let me start with production. The company produced 11 Bcf overall for the quarter, a 21% improvement from the second quarter of 2010. PDC experienced a 0.2 Bcf downward adjustment in the quarter for prior period adjustments. So physical deliveries were actually 11.2 bcf equivalent. The DJ basin is our largest producer. Overall, production growth has been driven by Codell refracs, recompletions in the Niobrara, vertical drilling, and we are now beginning to see the contribution from our horizontal Niobrara drilling program. The Appalachian production that you can see more than doubled from prior period levels and the growth has been driven primarily by our Marcellus development.

The Permian Basin production is right in line with our overall expectations and as noted in previous presentations we expect very strong production growth as we go through the year. And then in Piceance, the company showed a slight improvement from prior periods and with our completion schedule we should show modest production growth as we go through the balance of this year.

Next slide as you can see, production for the quarter exceeded our expectations. Some highlights related to the overall production trends in the company. Wattenberg continues to operate above plan, a direct result of very strong focus and continued improvements in our completions, the early contribution of our horizontal Niobrara drilling program, a recent start up of a major midstream facility expansion by our primary gatherer in the Wattenberg in the core portion of the field. This facility start-up directly resulted in lower line pressures in the North eastern portion of the field where we primarily operate. We are pleased with overall performance of our horizontal Marcellus program. Production and reserves from this activity continue to improve and we are very happy to be back to drilling this summer. We anticipate solid production contributions from this program for the balance of the year as we have Marcellus completion schedule for September.

Currently, third quarter production is very strong and well within guidance and last our net production has improved in June as a direct result of the 2005 partnership buyback program. The volume related to this acquisition is approximately 4 million cubic foot equivalent per day.

A quick look at production by area. For the quarter, Wattenberg was our biggest producer at 5.1 Bcf equivalent followed by Piceance at 3.2 Bcf equivalent. The Appalachian Basin showed significant growth at 1.3 Bcf equivalent, should note that is our net to the JV. And you can see the breakout of the new 2011 production guidance of 46.5 Bcf equivalent with nearly 50% of our production overall coming from the Wattenberg field. And as shown in the pie chart the quarter came in at 31% oil and natural gas liquids, a number we expect corporately to approach 35% by year end.

Let me touch on drilling activity. The company for the quarter was inline with expectations with a total 42 wells. Seven of these were horizontal spuds, four in the Marcellus and three in Niobrara. 35 vertical wells were drilled on the company's behalf 24 in Wattenberg, five in Permian and six in the Piceance Basin. So the company executed on 30 recompletions or refracs the bulk of those being in the Wattenberg. We approved or participated in 14 non-operated projects most of those in the Wattenberg and the current drilling status for the company is, one horizontal rig operating in the Wattenberg drilling in Niobrara; one vertical rig in the Wattenberg drilling in Codell/Niobrara wells; one vertical rig in the Permian; one horizontal rig in the Marcellus; and one directional vertical rig in the Piceance Basins.

An update on CapEx due to the very encouraging results of our capital program much of which was covered in the recent press release the company has expanded its developmental capital budget from $206 million to $293 million for the year 2011. This $293 million will be allocated as follows: 57% to the Wattenberg field, 23% to the Permian, 16% to the Piceance Basin and 4% to non operated projects.

Another $31 million has been slated for exploration efforts, leasehold and miscellaneous capital and $73 million is planned for the partnership buyback program of which approximately $40 million we closed in June, this brings the total capital for PDC for year 2011 to $397 million.

Touch on lease operating expenses, lifting cost for the quarter came in at $1.11 per Mcf this is a slight improvement from first quarter levels and in line with 2010 annualized levels. Some key points related to our operating costs.

First the Piceance water disposal project is up and running. The majority of our water in Piceance basin is being disposed of on our Mesa Top Disposal Project and this is part of the improvement you can see in the overall direct well expenses. Workover expenses have slowed from Q1 2011 and are expected to continue at a fairly steady pace as we go through the balance of this year.

Environmental expenses continued to be a challenge for our operating teams. Particularly in storm water control, air emissions controls, air emissions monitoring in the upcoming new green house gas regulations. Over all with improvement in production we feel that we can continue to make modest reductions in the lifting costs as we go through the balance of 2011.

So in closing just to hit some highlights related to the overall operations. In Wattenberg we couldn't be more pleased with our production performance some of which is related to lower line pressures we are experiencing.

Our capital programs related to refracs, recompletions, and drilling are right on or ahead of plan, in the horizontal drilling we are currently executing spud to TD in less than 10 days and our initial production from the program is at or above the 290,000 barrel type curve reserve estimate we have in house.

Last for Wattenberg, we continue to refine our horizontal Niobrara inventory and we were very pleased to announce an increase to 350 plus locations. In Permian, we are drilling our twelfth Wolfberry well, we have strong production growth and expect this to continue to the rest of the year.

Our operations and technical team are staffed, our completions are on pace with our plan and we have a very strong operational focus on completion engineering and design in the space.

In the Piceance our salt water disposal is up in running. We have encouraging from our SuperFracs. We plan on finishing the current five well pad with plans to return to drilling on the second half of 2012.

Then last Appalachia. The recent horizontal Marcellus wells are contributing to very strong production growth. We are pleased with what our team has done both on the drilling and the completion side we have reestablished drilling this summer. We have an ongoing focus in the drilling both on the cost side and drill items and we have very strong focus on our completion design and engineering.

And lastly, we are finalizing our midstream plans for eastern operations and these strategies will be communicated to the market in the near future.

With that I think we're going to open this up for questions. So I will flip the call back to the operator.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Phil McPherson from Global Hunter Securities. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. A couple of questions here. One, is there a basis differential on the liquids that come out of the Wattenberg? The liquids pricing just looked a little bit lower than first quarter, and I was just wondering if that's something that's going to be consistent going forward?

Phil this is Gysle. If you average out the six months there – that will give you the price that we expect to see in the future. There is a little bit of a basis difference because of ethane rejection possibilities in Texas. And it really depends on whether they're rejecting that ethane back into the natural gas stream, or if they're out there selling it. So I believe during the first half of the year that they were rejecting ethane, which would have – might have increased the gas price a little bit, but would have an impact of lowering realization on natural gas liquids.

So that they – is that like $40 per barrel kind of number is what it looks like the average is. Is there any correlation with that moving with oil prices as we go forward, or is that kind of – it's the benchmark that's being set in that basin??

This is Lance. Overall as we were looking at our NGLs and kind of giving guidance for – our company's relations with to natural gas liquids, we provided around 40% to 42% of the price of crude oil – of the price for natural gas liquids. And as Gysle was sharing and as he talked about the $40.71 a barrel out of about $97 a barrel for crude oil for the first six months is around 42% so. If you look at it overall, but within the range for the full six month period of time so that's our guidance going forward, it's the 40% to 42% Nymex crude is the price for NGLs.

Great. I appreciate it. And can you give us a little more on your thought process on the Piceance? I know that it was a big debate whether to keep drilling or not and then at one point you had even indicated that if you dropped the rig it's going to be hard to get that rig back, that has been working really well. So can you walk us through why increase wells and the likelihood of getting – being able to get that rig back?

This is Jim. I'll give you, between Bart and I, will probably can answer that question very well. I think that what we're looking at first of all is that – as we were looking at the Piceance, we saw that we had an engineering amplitude that we could apply to it as it relates to some of the SuperFrac technology and we wanted to get in and do more work on that. And so we expanded the program so that we could do some more SuperFracs and get more engineering data.

And secondly, is we really want to be able to have a flat production profile in the Piceance basin so we will – and that's why we're looking at continued drilling throughout this program and it is a – we've got a lot of opportunities to drill out there so we want to keep a very flat production profile.

And Phil, as Jim said, we added the five wells specifically to gain additional data because we're encouraged by some of the things we're doing with our completion, so working with our reserve group, we just want to make sure we had enough data as we look at drilling in 2012. As Jim said, there is a lot of discussion around reserves here. We have worked with our reserve group. And Phill, there will be a modest reduction in our overall 5 year window inventory count. But all the other things going on in the company, we couldn't be more encouraged by the corporate reserve picture right now, given we have not begun booking horizontal Niobrara in the approved category. The Permian is modestly booked right now and the Marcellus will continue to layer in proved reserves for us.

So, as far as the rig availability, absolutely this is a [ph] phase in P Flex-4 (30:04), we hate to let it go but this is a business decision and it's a right one for the company right now and the drilling team is already working on looking at alternatives of what we could implement next year when we plan on returning to drilling.

And the term flat profile on the production, is there any thought behind that? Do you guys have a firm contract with Rex that you have to meet? Is that part of that?

[ph] We have a (30:33) contract with Williams in which we do have to meet a volume. And I think we put out a release recently where we put it out that we have re-negotiated our contract but we do plan to drill to keep that flat.

Okay, great. And shifting to the Marcellus, can you give us some more details as far as where exactly you're drilling right now in the Marcellus? And do you think you guys at some point would take one of these wells deeper to see if the Utica's underneath it, and your thoughts on the emergence of the Utica, especially with the recent announcements in the last couple of weeks?

Yeah, first of all, yes. Utica is an area, it's deeper I believe it's about 12,000 foot. It'd be technically a more challenging project, but absolutely something our operating teams and geo-science teams are looking at. It's more shallow upward, there's a lot of activity right now up in the Ohio area which is more like I think 7,000 to 10,000 foot deep.

As far as Marcellus where we're active, I think we've announced that our area focus is Northern West Virginia, Phil. Taylor, Harrison and Barber counties are primary continuous blocks of acreage. As you know, we have six horizontal wells down and we're currently drilling again we have 9 planned this year with our first completions, the plan to be executed in September. The big thing for the Marcellus as we feel like we have our pumping service, services lined out we will be executing when we TD these wells, we will be executing in a timely fashion our fracs and we will be very quick to sale. So, I think the market can expect this one to grow production substantially as we go through the balance of this year. Hopefully, we answered all of your...

And can you just give me a little color on what your current Marcellus production is at and what it looks like on this guidance – like what we should expect it to exit at?

I can't.

[ph] Any hope? (032:46).

No problem, I understand.

We will just think later in the year so right now we really can't address that.

I think everyone knows our Appalachian production which grew substantially, I think 118% Q-to-Q, is a blend of the shallow Devonian and the Marcellus. But, all of the growth is attributable to our Marcellus development.

Okay. I'll just ask one more and then I'll hop back in the queue. This is more for Jim. With the increased CapEx, it's a pretty big number. Are you comfortable just doing this on the revolver? What's the thoughts on funding this, and is this a sneak peek into what 2012 looks like?

But yeah, I am very comfortable using the revolver on this and as you recall we did a equity last quarter in November. And we used the funds for that were designed for as the partnership repurchase and to step up drilling. And I think that – we're very comfortable, at this point, utilizing our revolver to increase the activity level, specific with the results we're seeing and the fact that you know the – we're looking at what was going on in the DJ basin. And the fact that we're able to drill the wells quicker, we're able to do a better completion than we originally thought. So we thought it would make sense to go ahead and continue and increase that – which you will see – some modest increase this year to volumes, but it will be substantial to the 2012 number.

And you're not willing to give us any look into that yet at that point, what kind of number that could be?

Yeah, I think we're probably couple of months away from being able to nearly give you guidance towards the end of the year and what 2012 looks like.

All right, thanks guys. I'll appreciate the color.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Welles Fitzpatrick from Johnson Rice. Your line is open.

Hey, Welles.

Good morning, guys. Hey, guys. The bump in the Marcellus where you are – I know that those 4,000-foot laterals, if I remember correctly those 4,000-foot laterals were outperforming the type curve. Is that bump associated with the 6,000-foot lateral or is it fair to say that that's an apples-to-apples move?

It's fair to say it's related to the performance of the wells we've drilled to-date. Some of the other operators that we have starting to release their data and understanding that the 4,000 to 6,000. We won't have a lot of 6,000 right now, Welles, but in our drilling plans we do have some of those. So the extra lateral length has also contributed to that enhanced reserves.

Yeah, with the extra length you get the added frac stages. And so, that's I think a beneficial.

There's absolutely a correlation between the number of stages you execute on, which ties to lateral length and the overall reserves as a well bore. But it also escalates your cost, so that's why we gave a reserve range and a cost range. Because each well will be unique in the acreage position that we have, the layout of the acreage, the length of the lateral and then the logs we run we actually selectively perforate and frac the Marcellus based on the rock properties.

Okay. And shifting to the Niobrara, with the 412-barrel-a-day 30 days beating the type curve, is it safe to assume that the 400 – I believe it's 490 barrel-a-day average at Wattenberg 30 days – it's significantly beating it, or is there something specific to the Wattenberg that would prevent that read-through?

When you say Wattenberg, you're talking about the core Wattenberg?

Yes.

Okay, yeah. Right now, we are absolutely seeing the core area performing a notch better, and you can see that in some of the data then the Krieger – of the most recent Krieger well we modified our completion a little bit. So, we're actually very encouraged by that. So we're – Welles, right now we're very encouraged. I think the story here is going to continue to improve as we polish our completions primarily, and our drilling techniques, and gain better and better knowledge of the quality of our acreage. So, your statement is correct. The core area right now would probably be even above the averages we gave in the press release.

Okay, perfect. And I have to ask – any update on the deep rights on that old Tecumseh acreage?

No updates. If you're talking about Utica, it's really more thermally immature window so the Tecumseh project, I would not want to lead anybody down the path saying, there is Utica opportunity there, it's going to be too westerly in our opinion to be a prospective in the Utica.

All right, that's all I have, thanks guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dan Guffey from Stifel Nicolaus. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. With the implementation of the saltwater disposal, and then also the encouraging results you've seen from the SuperFracs, can you give me an estimate of what gas price you guys think you'll need to get at 20% IRR in the Piceance?

We're going to – I'll give you a range $4.75 to $5.

Okay. And looking at the...

[indiscernible] (38:36) there – I would just say, look with the SuperFracs we've been doing and some of improve – we're getting close to it where we are today. And we're continuing to look at the operating cost, and other things we're doing there too, but we're getting very close to those types of numbers.

Okay. And could you remind me – it looks from the K that it's around 32.6 Bcf in gross commitments for '12 and '13, could you remind me the net number that you guys basically are due to Williams?

Dan, that number in the K has been revised, this is Gysle, Dan. That number in the K has been revised with our amendment that we filed as an exhibit – I'm sorry, we filed as an 8-K just a few days ago. So, if you want to see the detail, go back to the July 27 8-K we filed and it has all the [ph] ended (39:48) volumes but for the next three contract years, it's 20 million MMBtu a year.

Okay, great. And I guess just my final question, the Piceance. Do you guys have any plans in the next 18 months to testing the deep rights? Specifically, I think you tested one in the Niobrara previously.

Yeah, that's correct. In '08, we had as part of the '07 Marathon transaction we had a Niobrara test, it was actually a Dakota/Entrada Niobrara test. And that was in the valley, the bulk of our acreage, Dan, that's more prospective in the Niobrara would be up on the Mesa. In all honesty, the depth there is probably 12,000 foot to 13,000 foot to the Niobrara on a vertical basis. So, you're dealing with 16,000 foot measure-depth wells, 350 to 375 degrees, technically it's going to be a real challenge for us. Something we're absolutely keeping our eye on, but I think you're going to see this thing take off a little bit more to the South of our acreage and a little bit west to our acreage where, A, it's more of an oil window and not a pure gas play, and B, technically not as complicated as the Niobrara gets more shallow.

Okay. Do you guys have logs throughout the deep – throughout the acreage and on your acreage of the deep rights?

We have good control.

Okay. All right, thanks guys.

You are welcome.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Allman from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Thank you, good morning, everybody.

Good morning.

Good morning, Joe.

You talked a little bit about the 8-K you filed two days ago related to the marketing. Could you just give us the thinking behind that revision to the contracts? And did you drive that or did the – your counterparties drive that?

Well, this is Gysle, Joe. We've been in discussions with the counterparty for almost a year on revising the minimum data requirements and a couple of other things in the contract. So, it was more or less mutual. But, it – the way it's – the contract was structured it's about a six-year-old contract and anticipated obviously a higher natural gas price. So, we both of us realized that both counterparties realized that we needed to shift those volumes around a little bit to make more sense for everybody.

Okay, that's helpful, Gysle. And then on the partnership issue, Jim, you said that you expect to buy back all the partnerships by the end of next year. Remind me how much it's going to cost you, just roughly, to buy back the remaining partnerships you haven't yet announced?

We really haven't put a final number to all that. At this time, I think we've indicated that we've got about for the [ph] times three (43:07) that we're – right now it's about $30 million. And then you know, we've got a lot of other issues to go in for 2012. Joe, I just don't have that number right now at hand.

Okay. Now, thanks Jim. And then, Bart, in terms of the increase in locations for the Niobrara, you went from 125 to 350. Could you just give us the process you used to come up with that increase?

Yeah, actually good question it's fairly complicated. Our land group and operations team, when you look at the core Wattenberg they have about six or seven different factors that they're looking at some of it is where we have our vertical wells booked, some of it is where we have existing vertical wells. We have landowner issues, we have other operator where we have a 4,000 foot run, but we would have to pool the acreage. We have leased line, Wattenberg [ph] rule (44:07) drills, we have Wattenberg wells per 160 allotments or what's allowed. And then we have a set of other current regulations all that came into play.

So when we originally looked at this Joe, the 125 was a conservative estimate recognizing we had to go through all of those layers before we came back to the market and communicated and updated inventory. So we basically ran all of our locations where we have a 4,000 foot run in the Niobrara on our acreage, some of it is reduced working interest acreage. But the first criteria was we can drop a 4,000 foot lateral then we ramped to this different – the different layers of thought that I just laid out and came up with 350. So, a good portion of these have a lot of land work with them, I mean it's going to be a challenge for all operators in this basin not just PDC. And you will see a real shift from 100% heads up wells to heavy partners in your wells in these Horizontal Niobrara projects for all operators in the basin.

Got you. And then, Bart, just to follow up. So what kind of risking – after you looked at all those factors, then what kind of risking did you put in? And then also, what kind of spacing between the laterals did you assume?

These were clean runs, fairly clean runs where we had the spacing would be drilling amongst 40 acre locations. I don't know the exact, I think it's 660 foot to the offset vertical if I remember right. So these are pretty clean runs for us as far as having the shot to drop the lateral in there. So overall in the risking side of it, I believe the team came back and said we have about 200 of these that we are going to classify as priority meaning they will be the first geologically and some of the complications that I laid out are more simple. So we have 200 we classify as priority locations which will be the first in our capital program over the next several years. And then, another 150 that have more complicated land and regulatory things to resolve.

Okay. That's very helpful. I've got a few more but I'll get back in the queue. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Irene Haas from Wunderlich Securities.

Yes. Same, sort of similar question. You have 300-some locations on the Niobrara. And how easy would it be – or really, how difficult would it be – to get the unitization work done so that all producers can be working on a more optimal decision, partly because it takes you, what, 10 days to drill a well, and if you can stay put and do pad drilling, it'd be hugely more efficient. So I just wonder – in the ideal world, if you can get the land and unitization issues taken care of, how many more locations could you add?

Well, I guess. This is Jim, Irene. First of all, there is a whole coalition of operators in the Wattenberg field who are right now before the commission and going through a series of testimonies and from a political as well as engineering, geological to arrive at new field rules, which will apply to the entire area as it relates to the Horizontal wells. And that's going along very well and we anticipate this year having getting a resolution, which will allow the operators then to start working together to – early on there was a reluctance between all the operators to get together because of the technology and they were trying to make sure they get their ideas worked in first. But there's very little acreage especially in the core area that's not already leased. So I think you're going to see a lot more companies working together.

And as Bart indicated earlier, a lot of our locations are not 100%, but we will have some operators participating with us. And I think once you get the coalition and you get the rules worked out, I think you'll see people step up. And we're still going to have the issues of rig availability and even the greater problem of getting all the fracs done. So I don't think you're going to see a lot much step up in activity. I think you'll see a lot more cooperations between the companies.

Could I expect some improvement in drilling completion costs because of less mob and de-mob and things of that nature, or would cost escalation in general sort of even everything out?

I don't think you'll see a big change in the drilling cost. We've got two rigs running in the field now which we're keeping running and keeping the activity and the moves between locations, a very small amount. So I don't think you're going to really see a lot of cost change as it relates to that, most of our cost are really completion cost and so that's where it would be activity level, I don't anticipate the service companies coming down on their cost.

Okay, great. Thanks.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of David Tameron from Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, David.

A couple of questions. Bart, can you talk about the Niobrara? I mean in your EORs still seem to be tracking below other operators, i.e., Noble, that have published. How do you – any color you can give us there?

You're talking specifically in the horizontal Niobrara?

Yeah, I am sorry, yeah, horizontal Niobrara.

David, I think what we announced in the operations update is our IP is now a 30 day IPs and our engineering team has plotted those two points which I need to warn everybody that's very early data on the declining curve. And we announced that they are plotting above our 290,000. I don't know what our big brother has announced out there, but in the core area, but we feel like this is something that's going to put us in a 300 plus and maybe substantially above 300 as we continue delineate acreage. So but it's very very early. So we were just trying to give a flavor to the market, hey our wells are performing here as well as noted, I think I would take the core wells and the Krieger wells out and look at those differently, because we're definitely seeing different production characteristics in the two areas. I don't know if I answered your question or not?

No, I mean it sounds to me, or let me ask another question, let me ask a leading question, if your production rates continue, if the curve continues like you've seen right now, is there upside to EORs?

What Bart say, and yeah, this is Jim, what we say, and yeah we are expecting some if it continues. We just didn't want to make a change this early on based on the few data points that we had. The 290 is what we released last year and this year with guidance and what we didn't want to do was make a change at this point with a very few data points we have.

Okay. That's helpful. One more question, any – there's chatter about the Greenhorn being potentially prospective, have you guys looked at that at all, any plan to test that?

And the answer to the first part, yes we've looked at, at the second part no, currently no plans to test it.

All right. That's all I've got thanks.

Thanks, Dave.

Thank you. I show no further questions in the queue and would like to turn the conference back to Mr. James Trimble for closing remarks.

Thank you, very much. And I just again wanted to thank everybody for participating with us today and we look forward to seeing you in the near future. Thanks again for participating with us today.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect at this time.