corrected transcript


Petroleum Development Corp.
 
PETD
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for joining today’s Petroleum Development Corp. Fourth Quarter 2008 Year-


End Conference Call. If you’re going to be viewing the webcast for today’s conference, please go to


www.petd.com. On the homepage, at the top left-hand corner you’ll see Click Here to Join the


Webcast. Once clicking on that link, you’ll be on the landing page for conference calls and webcast


with their link to click to join the webcast. Once you click on that link, you will see a link that says


Click Here, download slides and the slides for this presentation will appear right away.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will


follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this call is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Richard McCullough, Chairman and CEO of


Petroleum Development Corporation. Thank you. Mr. McCullough, you may now begin.


Richard W. McCullough, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thank you, operator. And good morning everybody, and welcome to the 2008 earnings


teleconference. With me today is Gysle Shellum, our Chief Financial Officer and Bart Brookman,


our Senior Vice President of Exploration and Production.


I am going to kick off this morning’s call with just a few brief comments and then ask Bart to give us


an operational update of the 2008 results, and then ask Gysle to give us a financial update.


Probably the first thing that I’d like to do is just say how pleased I am with -- this was another timely


filing of our 10-K. Those of you who have followed the company for a number of years know what


an accomplishment that is and particularly, we’re filing almost three weeks earlier than last year. So


I’d like to congratulate Gysle and the entire financial team for that. We will be making some


forward-looking statements this morning, so I encourage you to read the disclaimer on page two.


And with that, I am going to begin my comments around the fundamentals as shown on the table


on page four. You can see that, again, it’s another successful year, 2008, from a production and a


revenue point of view. The realized gas prices in the fourth quarter were challenging and remain


challenging in 2009, but we exited the year at a very high overall level of $8.66. A lot of it, as you


know, is due to the financial hedging that we did during 2008 and I know Gysle will cover that in


more depth during his comments.


Adjusted cash flow from operations, just would point out the $200 million for the current year and


you see how substantially the increase between 2006 and 2008 there in both in the adjusted cash


flow per share numbers. This is really due to the transition that we’ve been making as a company


away from the limited partnerships drilling for our own account, the substantial growth in our drilling


and production, and the realized gas pricing.


If you look at the next page, you can’t really talk about 2008 without some focus on 2009. While we


had solid growth in 2008 in all of these areas, 2009 will be a challenging year for PDC and for other


E&P companies. Probably when you look at our company, the things that we’d like to call your


attention to is kind of some of the steps that we’ve taken that we think have well positioned the


company to deal with this economic and financial downturn. One is the valuable hedges in place.


You see this both in the realized pricing that we had in 2008, but as of the balance sheet date, if


you took all of our hedges through 2009, ‘10, and ‘11 and beyond and marked them to market, we


have a total net aggregate asset of $153.5 million. So our hedges are very much in the money and


will serve us very well for 2009 and beyond.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Development Corp.
 
PETD
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We did disclose in our 10-K the specific counterparties that these hedges are with. As you might


suspect, those are issues that are more important in this kind of market and we are very


comfortable with the quality and strength of our counterparties.


As we previously announced, 2009 capital, we’ve reduced it by about 50 to 60% over 2008 levels.


We’re expecting to spend within the 120 to $140 million range. Bart is going to cover that in a little


bit more detail.


We have discontinued spending already in 2009 in Piceance because of the low realized pricing


that we’re seeing there. We feel like we’re in a strong liquidity position. We’ll talk about that. Gysle


will talk about where we are on our bank line, what we’re expecting in bank redetermination during


2009, but we are committed as a management team to drill within our operating -- spend within our


operating cash flows and we’ll continually focus on our liquidity position.


And like others, this kind of -- as we’ve drawn back and reduced our drilling efforts, we’ve really


renewed our efforts in looking at cost reductions and operational enhancement efforts. And while


we don’t have specifics to share today, we plan to bring some of that information forward at our


Analyst Day upcoming in -- I think it’s March 19 in New York City.


So with those brief comments, I’d like to turn it over to Bart, who is going to give us a brief


operational update.


Barton R. Brookman, Senior Vice President, Exploration and Production


Thank you, Rick. Today, I would like to show how our teams once again executed on a record for


the company 2008 implementing our operating plan, but more importantly, show we have made the


necessary reductions and have been very flexible in our operations over the past several months in


slowing things down in light of the deteriorating commodity pricing market.


2009 will be a slower year for the company. There will be more focus on production optimization,


production engineering, cost controls, and cost reduction both in our CapEx and in our LOE areas


and implementing a modest capital budget relative to prior years.


Let me start by just going through the core operating regions, which I believe is slide seven.


Michigan, primarily, a PDP property for us, small contributor to our overall production. Not a lot of


undeveloped opportunity in that area. Appalachia contributes 10% of our production, 15% of our


reserves and currently provides the company one of our best exploration opportunities in the


Marcellus Shale. The Rockies, I’ll be referring to primarily three areas, NECO or Northeast


Colorado, which is on the Colorado -- Northeastern Colorado/Kansas border, shallow Niobrara


play, Wattenberg, which sits just north of Denver, J Sand, Codell, Niobrara, and the Piceance


Basin, which is in Western Colorado. These three basins together combine for 80 to 90% of our


reserves in production.


Some operating highlights. Next slide. Production 38% improvement in 2008 to 38.7 Bcf. All of this


was organic in nature and it really was a blend of growth in all of our major operating areas. Our


proved reserves increased 10%, and I will give more detail on this later in the presentation.


2008 activity levels, we had 379 wells drilled, a record for the company, and as you can see


graphically 2009 activity level was planned substantially below those levels at 155 wells. Let me


give a quick breakout of that 155. We have 65 operated wells in the Wattenberg Field, 28 wells in


Wattenberg that are non-operated, 50 wells currently planned on two prospects that we’re very


excited about in NECO, Northeast Colorado, and 12 wells in the Appalachia area.