Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Chairman, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Surinder Thind — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian Kinstlinger — Analyst, Alliance Global Partners
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Allen Klee — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Perficient First Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Chairman and CEO, Jeff Davis. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. With me on the call today is Paul Martin, our CFO. I want to thank you all for your time. As typical, we've got about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments. After which, we'll open the call for questions.

Before we proceed, Paul would you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Security laws. Actual results may be materially different from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

Anytime during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS, our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP. This is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Well, once again, thanks, everyone, for joining. We're pleased to be with you this morning to reflect on a strong first quarter and share an updated outlook for the rest of 2019. The year is off to a great start, as you can infer from our revised earnings and revenue guidance. We expect that momentum to continue and potentially accelerate as we progress to the year. [indiscernible] (02:01) specifics shortly but we're increasingly confident that the unique and compelling business we're building in provision is beginning to really hit a stride.

As we cross the threshold of $500 million of revenue and set our sights on $1 billion and beyond, we reached an inflection point, but Fortune 1000 and the Fortune 100 are increasingly willing to partner with us on multi-year, multi-phase and multi-faceted single transformation initiatives to impact and improve the most core and critical aspects of their business.

We're doing big important work for many of the world's largest enterprises. For example, one of our largest healthcare customers has been partnering with us on numerous digital transformation projects over the last past decade. There are a longstanding relationship, we helped them transform how they create personalized, empowered and seamless customer experiences for their more than 10 million members. Most recently, we engaged on a multi-year, multi-workload program upgrading their analytics foundation.

Our team is bringing an array of technical and industry resources with expertise in big data, data visualization, VI and analytics. This is on top of another key file migration multi-year roadmap project that's underway with that line.

We've worked closely with one of the largest automobile manufacturers in the world for over a decade, helping them with the wide range of digital transformation... [audio gap]

(03:24)

We delivered solutions at this point leveraging our broad set of technologies including Adobe marketing plan, WebSphere, Magento, Azure, Oracle [indiscernible] (03:33) and typical cloud foundry.

Client recently engaged us to redesign and re-platform its enterprise dealer portal to improve the user experience. Electively, this work is providing the client greater flexibility, faster speed to market, improved customer satisfaction and application development efficiencies.

The client had such confidence in our team, and they've come to us – come to see us not just as an implementation partner but as a trusted adviser that has earned a seat at the executive table. Many of our financial services clients are focused on improving operational efficiency dealing with complex regulatory reform and meeting an ever increasing customer experience demands. We partner with a leading international bank for a number of years in each of these areas, delivering solutions for ensuring data security, enforcing sales practices compliance, workflow automation and more.

We recently implemented Appian in an Appian Center of Excellent and are helping to build the applications to streamline operations, deliver consistent customer experiences, and enforce regulatory compliance in process.

One last example of mission-critical work we're delivering is at a Fortune 100 Appian equipment manufacturing company. We've worked with this client for over a decade on more than 175 engagements including digital transformation work focused on modernizing customer-facing systems in order to keep up with market demand, generate leads and remain competitive.

Most recently, we helped the client improve its rental business with the transformation of its rental website which is used to provide equipment and tool rentals to customers ranging from contractors and fleet managers to private individuals. And the client was so impressed with this work, which, by the way, is increasing lead volume 35% since its launch.

Then, as mentioned, the new assignments in the most recent earnings call. Of course, I'm proud of all that work and I'm deeply impressed with the physical discipline our leadership team is bringing to the business, focused intently on growing both our top and bottom lines, and striving for best-in-class results. Everyone managing this business understands our commitment to excellence extends not only to our customers and colleagues, but to our investor community as well.

We talked last quarter about the market's growing awareness of our traction in high-growth areas like cloud and digital. Just last month, Perficient Digital received three interactive marketing awards including Search Agency of the Year, Large Interactive Marketing Agency of the Year, and Best Interactive Marketing Campaign.

Additionally, industry analysts like Forrester continued to include Perficient in various reports recommending consulting providers. Recently, Forrester cited Perficient as the key service provider around application modernization and migration, and also named us a strong performer in their API strategy and delivery service provider's Wave report.

In the Wave report, Forrester [indiscernible] (06:22) Perficient is having a stronger current offering than firms like EPAM and Infosys, and stated that Perficient has a good shortlist of vendor, providers that need a partner with well-rounded API strategy and delivery capabilities. So, really great external validation of our work, coming from a lot of places, customers as well as influential industry voices.

The world's largest enterprises are asking us for more assistance and providing us more opportunity to help their businesses thrive because the end-to-end capabilities we bring are indispensable in a competitive environment where technology and customer experience are inextricably connected.

And all of that [indiscernible] (07:03) an additional market share for Perficient, strong and top line results as you can see for the quarter and what we're providing for the outlook for the rest of the year.

With that, I'm going to turn the call over to Paul, to cover the financial results before I touch on a few additional items of note and our outlook for the second quarter and our updated earnings and revenue guidance for the result of the year. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Services revenues were $132.9 million for the first quarter of 2019, an 11% increase over the comparable prior-year period. Services gross margins for the three months ended March 31, 2019, excluding reimbursable expenses and stock compensation increased 130 basis points to 37.6%.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $29.8 million in the first quarter of 2019 from $26.4 million in the comparable prior-year period. SG&A expense excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue increased to 22.3% from 21.8% in the first quarter of 2018. EBITDAS for the first quarter of 2019 was $19.7 million or 14.7% of revenues compared to $16.9 million or 14% for the first quarter of 2018.

The first quarter included amortization expense of $4.1 million compared to $3.9 million last year. Interest expense for the first quarter of 2019 increased to $1.8 million from $400,000 in the comparable prior-year period primarily due to noncash amortization of debt discount and issuance cost related to the company's convertible senior notes which were issued in September of 2018.

Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2019 was 19.9% compared to 23.2% in the first quarter of 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the increase in tax benefits recognized related to share-based compensation deductions during the first quarter of 2019 compared to the prior-year quarter.

Net income increased 43% to $7 million for the first quarter of 2019 from $4.9 million in the first quarter of 2018. Diluted earnings per share increased to $0.22 a share from $0.15 a share in the prior-year quarter. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.43 a share for the first quarter of 2019 from $0.35 in the prior-year quarter. See the press release for a full reconciliation to GAAP earnings.

Adjusted EPS, as a reminder, defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, noncash stock compensation and acquisition costs, amortization of debt discount and issuance cost, and fair value adjustments and consideration and the impact of other infrequent or unusual transactions net of related taxes divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for the period.

Our earning billable head count at March 31, 2019 was 2,956 including 2,667 billable consultants and 289 subcontractors. And the SG&A head count at March 31 was 525.

Our outstanding debt net of unamortized debt discount and the issuance cost as of March 31 was $121.2 million compared to $120.1 million at year-end. We also had $27.7 million in cash and cash equivalents as of March 31. Our balance sheet continues to leave us very well positioned to execute on our strategic plans.

Finally, our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 70 days at the end of the first quarter compared to 75 at the end of the first quarter of 2018.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. We booked 70 deals over $0.5 million during the quarter compared to 49 in the fourth quarter of 2018 and 54 in the first quarter of 2018. So, I'm going to repeat that. 70 deals north of about $0.5 million compared to 49 in the fourth quarter last year and 54 in the first quarter of last year. So, obviously, a material increase in large deal signings both sequentially and annually.

During the quarter, health sciences, financial service, retail and consumer goods, automotive and manufacturing verticals combined to represent 75% of revenue. Health sciences was 30%; financial services 17%; automotive at 10%; and retail and consumer goods and manufacturing each representing 9% of [indiscernible] (11:17).

We saw a strong year-over-year bookings growth in several verticals during the quarter as well with health sciences, financial services, automotive and telecom particularly strong. Bookings in each of those verticals were up substantially over the prior-year period.

There are several factors behind that bookings growth. The excellent job of our delivery teams day-to-day to deliver value and grow our reputation and lion's share within accounts is key obviously. A solid economy drawing brand awareness and increased marketing investments are absolutely creating more conversations and more adopts. But one thing that can be overstated is the ongoing expansion and maturation of our sales organization. We've invested in management infrastructure, develop new compensation plans, and onboarding tools and processes that have laid the foundation for us to scale the sales organization and expand capacity more rapidly and effectively.

So, while we continue to benefit from the production of our most senior sellers, professionals selling $10 million, $20 million, $30 million even $40 million a year in business, we're constantly growing and bringing the next class of professionals. Colleagues, for example, we made above $3 million last year on pace for $6 million this year, and are destined to keep building their books of business as Perficient scales and their relationships grow.

One final note before we open the call up for questions. The midpoint of the revised guidance I'll speak to momentarily imply a 7% organic growth. And of course, we continue to look to supplement that with strategic and accretive M&A. No guarantees on that front but we are in advance stages with a couple of earns that remains a key component of our strategy.

So again, things are going very well and I'm excited to share our outlook for the second quarter and an update to our full-year 2019 guidance. Perficient expects second quarter 2019 revenues to be in the range of $132 million to $138 million, second quarter GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.22 to $0.25, and adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.46 to $0.49. Perficient is raising our previously provided full-year 2019 revenue guidance range from $515 million to $545 million to a range of $535 million to $560 million, raising our previously provided 2019 GAAP earnings per share guidance range of $0.74 to $0.86 to $0.90 to $1.02, and raising our previously provided 2019 adjusted and EPS guidance range of $0.65 to $0.77 to a new range of $1.80 to $1.92.

So, with that, operator, we can open the call up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Surinder Thind with Jefferies. Your line is open.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. I just wanted to touch base on a couple of different items here. Let's start with the change in the revenue guide. Can you walk us through – I'm seeing a lot of operating leverage there. Can you walk us through that in terms of what's driving that? Is that just expectations of sustained higher utilization? Is there may be increased expectations of more work being done offshore? Any color would be helpful.

Yeah. I would say it's a little bit of improved utilization year-over-year. I think we're up 1 point or so. But no, mostly, it's related to the bookings. We had a very, very strong bookings. In the fourth quarter, we spoke about that and what we weren't sure of, obviously, only a month or so into year was whether that would continue. And in fact, we've seen that continue. So, we've got a very nice backlog right now. Supposedly, growth that we're seeing was really coming from our sales team. I mentioned that in the prepared statements that we've really got an expanded sales team that's continuing to come online and help accelerate that growth. I should note that Q1 this year had one less billable day than the prior year. So, kind of on a normalized basis, so our growth for Q1 would have been about 5.5%. And of course, the guide for the rest of the year at the midpoint passes at 7%, but I'm optimistic that we can top that.

Understood. And then, in terms of the record number of large projects that you won in this quarter, did everything sort of just kind of come together at the same time? And then, maybe within that figure, was there just a lot of follow-on work that was won at existing clients or were there are a lot of – or a number of new clients in that mix as well?

Yeah. The lion's share of our business does tend to come from existing clients, probably 90-plus percent repeat business. However, we've also added new logos and new strategic accounts. Those tend to start a little smaller and build over time. Although we had some nice wins here in this first quarter. New logos as well.

So, yeah, I would say kind of hitting on all cylinders, if you want to use that analogy, is a good way to say it. But I can underemphasize, as I mentioned before, again the effectiveness of the sales team and once they're beginning to put up, I would say, just beginning to hit their strides as well. There's a lot of dry powder there.

Understood. And then, one final follow-on related to that. Given that you guys do seem to be hitting on all cylinders, any color that you can provide on the business environment itself in the sense of maybe [indiscernible] (17:21) clients, is it a little bit more positive, are they willing to maybe increase their investment spend on consulting services at this point, relative to maybe what you were seeing in the back half of last year?

Yeah. That's interesting. I would say we haven't seen a significantly notable change. But again, recall that when others in the industry last year were talking about new leasing softness. We didn't see it. So, I have to say it's more of the same. The pipeline continues to build even as we land and close major deals. We nearly rebuild the pipeline. Again, a testament to I think the fact that [indiscernible] (17:59).

But from a macro standpoint, I would say the economy from our perspective is healthy or at least the macro environment that we see is healthy. But I wouldn't say it's necessarily accelerated notably. It's just us honestly penetrating more and getting more of that and taking more share.

Thank you. I'll get back in the queue for additional questions.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Mayank Tandon with Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, Jeff and Paul. Jeff, just to drill on the revenue side a little bit further, obviously good bookings and I can see why you're raising guidance. But you're raising the guidance by significantly more than the beat. I just want to get a little bit of better handle on the visibility you have towards the new range. Is it higher than historical levels? Is it pretty much in line with what you see typically at the end of the first quarter? Just some clarity on that would be helpful.

No, the backlog is definitely higher than historical – better – the best I can remember are actually better. And in terms of the raise, it's really just an extrapolation. And I would tell you a fairly conservative extrapolation often kind of where we end at Q1 and where we know Q2 is going to be. Obviously, we've got April under our belt. And we've got great visibility clearly into Q3.

So, I would tell you that our guide update is reflective of even just modest growth in the second half of the year which, again, I'm optimistic we can get to the top end of that and possibly we'd have upside.

Okay. Got it. And then, you mentioned 7% of the midpoint for the organic growth going forward. What is the range? I think the previous range was 1% to 7%. So, you're clearly running at the high end in terms of your guide, but what is the new range just to be clear?

It's 5% to 10%.

Yeah.

So, like I said, the midpoint is like 7.5%.

Right. Okay. And then, how are you thinking about pricing as being a potential tailwind? I know in the past you have made the point that there's a lot of headroom for you on the AVR side. What are the trend line you're seeing in terms of improving pricing over time to drive that revenue growth?

I think we're going to begin to see some improvements there. We continue to be very focused on gaining shares and remain extremely competitive on all fronts including pricing. However, we did see a – I think about a 1% or so increase sequentially Q1 over Q4, and I do think that it's going to continue. We've got a renewed focus on gross margins and just assuring that we're gradually moving those rates up sort of along with wage inflation. So, I'm optimistic we'll see some improvement there. It's not going to be wildly high increases, 5% to 8%. I think that's – that'll be a setback in volume. So, 2% to 3% over the course of the year would be I think perfect.

Okay. So, I'm hearing you right. It's obviously head count growth, and then you get a little bit of uptick from both the AVR and from utilization for the rest of the year to drive that, call it, 7.5% midpoint organic growth. Is that fair?

Yes.

Okay. One final question on margins. Just want to get clarity in terms of your expectations for margin expansion in fiscal 2019. In terms of how do that break down between gross margin and EBITDA margin improvement?

Yeah. We're kind of at the midpoint of our model. And I mentioned this I think on the last call. I still think it's going to be $100 million to $150 million debt improvement year-over-year. I think that's the right range. I don't think it will be below $100 million. It could be above $150 million but that's where I think it will be.

Excellent. Great job, guys. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Brian Kinstlinger with Alliance Global Partners. Your line is open.

Hi. Great. Thanks. Some of the best quarters I've seen in a decade covering the stock. The overall head count...

Thanks, Brian.

Yeah. The overall head count sequentially was the strongest increase I've seen in many years with no acquisition made. And you've kind of talked about why obviously, and utilization was still high in the first quarter. Can you talk about how these new resources – how quickly can they be deployed. They generally experience hires with skills already driving growth or do they need to be trained on some of the driving factors of your growth?

We are making some investments as we've discussed in the past, things like [indiscernible] (22:54) there's a loud boundary where we are 100 people is basically into training. But that's a very small portion of what you see here. The vast majority more than 90% of the resources that we added went pretty much straight into the billable roles, billing immediately. Most of them are experienced and as I said went straight into our projects.

No, the gross margins has been pretty solid. But when you're making all those hires, I take it you got to pay up for some of those experienced hires. How do you manage that with the gross margin and pricing?

Well, again, we do have a little bit of improvement coming in rates. We saw that in the first quarter. I think it's going to continue at least modestly. Utilization helps offset that to your point earlier, but the other factor that we've managed to achieve in last year is a great example. The average day salary for our employees in spite of that employee – in spite of using a kind of an industry standard [indiscernible] (23:57) increased full of 3.5%, the average base comp for our global employees actually went down 0.5 point. The reason for that is, that on these larger, longer-term engagements, we're able to hire more to the base of the pyramid and less experienced resources. So, as people leave their attrition or we're just growing, we're adding more junior resources as we pretty much add that management [indiscernible] (24:22) in the senior people in place. So, there's actually some economies on the billable side of the business.

Great. Last question I've got. For a couple of quarters now, you've been talking about Pivotal and Marketo, and if you look at the data sheet it's finally really playing out in terms of meaningful solid numbers to your revenue. How hard is it there to attract talent in these highly-coveted platforms?

You can't, so those are – Marketo is different. I think we can view that. But that's mostly growing around and certainly the Pivotal trial of boundary for the most part to grow your own. They just don't exist in the market. So, as you might recall, we started that investment at the beginning of last year where we actually licensed the certification curriculum from Pivotal and are running our own sessions to train people and have them certified. So, that's the approach really kind of on both of those. So, it's very difficult to find experienced resources, but we do have a great plan in place that's already been executing and scalable to grow our own [indiscernible] (25:30)

One thing I'd add to that, Brian, is with the Elixiter acquisition that we did in the fourth quarter, we picked up some additional skills under Marketo, [indiscernible] (25:40) grow their platform and work with Adobe's, they worked that out.

< <Q – [05ZKZX-E]Brian Kinstlinger – Alliance Global Partners>: But on the Pivotal side – sorry, I have one more. On the Pivotal side I think your utilization is close to 100% and therefore those are some of the hires that you need to train like you're talking about, is that right?

Yes. Yeah.

Yeah.

And we're – I think we're going to continue to see that. Like I said, it's a sort of a perfect equation for us. We're able to find the people that have the base skills around Java Spring that they need to adapt in Pivotal then train them pretty quickly.

Great. Thanks so much.

Thanks, Brian.

Our next question comes from Vincent Colicchio with Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Yeah, nice quarter, Jeff. What portion of revenue was related to digital transformation? Do you have that breakdown?

It's easily – I wouldn't say this is definitively precise, but it's easily 70% to 75% now. I mean everything – even if you look at the more "traditional side of business", it's all cloud now anyway. But easily 75% fits perfectly in this mock definition.

And you were – the call cut off when you were talking about the number of a $0.5 million projects here in the quarter. What was the year-ago number and sequential number? I missed that.

Yeah, it was $70 million this quarter, and then a year ago it was $54 million. And last quarter was $49 million.

Okay, and then on the bill rates increase imbedded in your expectations for the year. Is that – can you break that down in terms of where it's coming from, existing clients you're making up for low rates in the past [indiscernible] (27:33). That would be helpful..

These are combinations actually. Certainly, you have kind of a clean slate with new clients. But we got success with the existing clients, just getting them to agree even something as simple as sort of cost of living increases. And/or we rotate more senior people out as they've gotten more experience or maybe gotten promoted. And again, backfill them with a more junior experienced person that's appropriate for that role.

But I would say it's coming from all fronts. Obviously, we've got some major clients that are more or less locked in where it's difficult to raise rates. But we've had good success pretty much everywhere else.

Okay.

Gradually.

That's it from me. And my other questions were asked. Thanks.

Thanks, Vince.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Allen Klee with Maxim Group. Your line is open.

Yes. Hi. Can you talk about how you think about the growth of your offshore consultants versus onshore will be?

Yeah. Historically, offshore has grown certainly organically outpacing onshore. I think that – and it does somewhat ebb and flow as we tend to engage onshore in some of our very large engagements. But for the most part, that washes and there's overall inorganic growth there that's outpacing onshore. We've seen periods where it's double digit. And we've seen other periods where it's maybe mid-single-digits based. Always net of onshore.

And I think that's going to continue. We're actually continuing to scale and train some pretty unique skills in those centers, including things that we've talked about that are really hot like [indiscernible] (29:31) as an example. I think we're going to be pretty early to the game with some of those skills and capabilities offshore. And of course, offshore is always and still is widely recognized as a good value. We've had great success there. We're CMMI Level 5 certified. So, our quality is impeccable and clients are recognizing that and give us more and more opportunity. And of course, I don't have to remind you that our gross margins offshore are about 55%.

Thank you. And then, as analytics has grown as a percent of your total sales, could you maybe give us an example or two of the type of business that you're doing there?

Yeah. I mean, I mentioned an example in a health care payer that were actually payer and provider, we're doing analytics almost everywhere. And on the retail side, of course, it's Customer 360 and Customer Analytics and how do you profile the customers you're trying to attract. So, it's everything from that, and then using that information, by the way, back in Perficient Digital to target digital marketing and target solutions that we're developing.

It all kind of goes hand in glove that I would say probably the biggest surge that we've seen recently has been in health care. Both payer and provider, but I'd say payers in particular are keen to get better information for themselves in terms of managing the case load and managing outcomes. But also, many of the same payers are setting up data as a service provide back to the providers in their network. So, they're actually setting up a profit center around some of this data, the claims data that they have access to. So, we're seeing a ton of that in the industry. But analytics is part of everything we do.

Okay. And lastly, you talked about one of the reasons of raising guidance was the improved efficiency of your sales team. Could you maybe point to kind of what actions you've taken that you believe have gotten you that improved effectiveness?

Yeah. Absolutely. We've been talking about this for a couple years and beginning – really probably three years ago, trying to keep this brief. We really started revamping the organization structure and – but manage the infrastructure in place, made those investments.

We also revise the compensation plan. The outcome of all that was intended to, one, have a sales organization that was scalable, that we feel we could add capacity to and get immediate results from. But also a much more prescriptive and strategic model.

Three years ago, we allowed everybody to be pretty much just opportunistic. Again now, it's a much more prescriptive model. We assign the accounts, we tell the folks what we want them to sell, where we want them to sell it based obviously on our judgment of the best odds of success. And that's really beginning to produce results.

The one thing I'll point out that I've mentioned to investors over the last several months is that we've got about 100 sales people now. We had 65 or so two years ago. And I think the incent there is just to accelerate growth. And I think we're really starting to see that. But I still think it's early stages. I would describe it to you this way that about a third of our sales people have been with us a long time and they're up there, putting updated numbers, it's often double digits, et cetera.

Kind of a next third is in the – maybe two-year experience level with us or 10-year level with us and the average sales there may be $3 million a year, something like that. So, we're getting about 60% of our sales from the top third, probably another 30% or so from that second third, and only about 10% from that last third, but that's great news. It's essentially at some cost. We're seeing these people come online. We're working with them and then training them and bringing them on. Of course, if they don't cut it, we replace them with somebody else. But that is where we're beginning to see some of the increased sales here. And [indiscernible] (33:41) is that should continue because we've got a lot of dry powder.

Great. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Thank you. This concludes the question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the conference back over to Jeff Davis for closing remarks.

All right. Well, thank you all for your time today. Appreciate it. And look forward to speaking to you in about a quarter. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thanks for your participation. Have a wonderful day.