Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer, Perficient, Inc.
Shane Trow Svenpladsen — Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC
Elizabeth Chwalk — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian D. Kinstlinger — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC
Frank Carl Atkins — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q4 2014 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. My name is Mark and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only-mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to President and CEO, Jeff Davis. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you, and with me this morning is Paul Martin, our CFO. I want to thank you all for joining and your time. As typical, we've about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments, after which we'll open up the call up for questions. Before that, Paul, could you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP, is posted on our website at www.perficient.com.

We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures, prepared in accordance with GAAP, on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. And once again, good morning everybody. We appreciate you joining. We're pleased to share with you our fourth quarter and year-end results.

Perficient's performance in the fourth quarter exceeded our expectations, with Services revenue above the midpoint of our guidance range, Services margins of 40% and a spectacular Software quarter. Those results, coupled with an incremental increase to ABR, average bill rate, which remains at an all-time high, drove bottom-line results above our goals and consensus. By all measures, it was a strong close to a solid year.

It's clear our strategy is working and our capabilities are resonating with customers, who now more than ever before need guidance as they navigate the obstacles and seize the opportunities that the digital transformation of our world has created. Investing in the business and technology solutions that customers, suppliers, partners and employees demand is no longer an option that enterprises can delay. It's an imperative course of action that requires constant diligence and assessment. The world is simply moving too fast now. Competition is relentless and ubiquitous and customer experience is crowning winners and creating losers at lightning speed.

Perficient is positioned to benefit for many years from this digital dependence. Our broad portfolio, deep technology expertise and cross-platform and industry experience align perfectly with the opportunity. Every enterprise in every industry is impacted and we could engage in a system regardless of the platforms they've built their business on.

I'll touch on to their notable results and exciting developments after Paul speaks in detail about the fourth quarter and full-year results. We'll also speak to Q1 and provide initial guidance for 2015.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Paul.

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the fourth quarter were $125.8 million, a 29% increase over the year-ago quarter. Services revenue were $99.9 million for the fourth quarter 2014, excluding reimbursable expenses, which is an increase of 16% over the comparable prior-year period. Services gross margin for the fourth quarter 2014, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, were 40% compared to 38.5% in the fourth quarter of 2013.

SG&A expenses increased to $24.8 million in the fourth quarter 2014 from $20.3 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. And SG&A as a percentage of revenue decreased to 19.7% from 20.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013.

EBITDAS for the fourth quarter 2014 was $19 million or 15.1% of revenues, compared to $15.7 million or 16.1% of revenues in the fourth quarter 2013, with the decrease primarily the result of a higher mix of lower-margin software sales.

The fourth quarter 2014 included amortization expense of $3.9 million compared to $2.2 million in the comparable prior-year period. The increase is primarily associated with the 2013 and 2014 acquisitions.

Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2014 was 30.6% compared to 35.8% in the fourth quarter of 2013. The decrease in the effective rate is primarily due to the impact of the federal R&D tax credit for 2014 being signed into law for the full-year 2014 in the fourth quarter.

Net income increased 17% to $6.4 million for the fourth quarter 2014 from $5.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Diluted GAAP earnings per share was $0.19 a share for the fourth quarter compared to $0.17 a share in the fourth quarter 2013.

Adjusted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.36 a share for the fourth quarter 2014 from $0.30 a share in the fourth quarter of 2013. Adjusted GAAP EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share, plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensation, transaction costs, and fair value adjustments of contingent consideration, net of related taxes, divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for the applicable period.

Our ending billable head count at December 31, 2014 was 1,856, which included 1,724 billable consultants and 132 subcontractors. Ending SG&A head count at December 30, 2014 (sic) [December 31, 2014] was 350.

Now, I'm going to turn to the full-year results. Revenue for the year ended December 30, 2014 (sic) [December 31, 2014] was $456.7 million, a 22% increase over the comparable period. Services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014, excluding reimbursable expenses was $386.7 million, an 18% increase. Services gross margin for the year ended December 30, 2014 (sic) [December 31, 2014], excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, increased to 38.4% from 37.6% in the prior year period.

SG&A expense increased to $90.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, from $77.6 million in the prior year. SG&A as a percentage of revenue was 19.8% for 2014 compared to 20.8% in 2013.

EBITDAS for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $17.5 million or 15.9% of revenues compared to $56.6 million or 15.2% of revenues in 2013. 2014 included $14.5 million of amortization compared to $8 million in 2013. 2014 has included acquisition costs of $3.4 million, primarily associated with the acquisitions of ForwardThink, BioPharm, Trifecta and Zeon, compared to $2.3 million or related to the acquisitions of TriTek, Clear Task, CoreMatrix in 2013.

Our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2014 was 38.3% compared to 32% for the year ended December 31, 2014 (sic) [2013]. The increase in the effective tax rate was due primarily to the year ended December 31, 2013, including more than one year benefit recorded for research and development credit in the domestic production deduction.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2014, increased 8% to $23.2 million from $21.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2013. GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.70 from $0.67 in 2013.

Adjusted GAAP earnings per share for the year was $1.30, up from $1.11 or up 17% from 2013. We ended the fourth quarter with $54 million in outstanding debt. This is down $20.8 million from the September 30, 2014 debt numbers. And we had $10.5 million in cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2013 (sic) [2014].

In addition, in early January, we expanded our line of credit from $90 million to $125 million in conjunction with the Zeon acquisition. Our balance sheet continues to leave us well positioned to execute on our strategic plan.

Our days sales outstanding on account receivable were 81 days at the end of the fourth quarter, down from 92 days at the end of the third quarter. There were strong collections in January and DSOs have now been reduced into the mid-70s. We expect DSOs to return to historical levels in 2015.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Davis for a little more commentary. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Again, a great quarter and a solid year, and we're expecting more of the same in 2015. We closed 40 deals north of $500,000 during the fourth quarter and they averaged about $1 million each. That compares to 35 in the third quarter at $1.4 million each, and 23 in the fourth quarter of 2013 that averaged $1.7 million. So, good volume growth in terms of the number of larger deals booked. As I mentioned on last quarter's call, driving the volume is going to be a key focus for us this year as we work to move organic growth back up towards the high-single digits. We've done an excellent job in recent quarters of driving average bill rate improvement and now we're strategically working towards leveraging that across our larger book of business.

The big data and analytics, digital, cloud, and management consulting are all driving success for us. As I mentioned earlier, digital transformation and customer experience are key focus areas for our clients and our perspectives – and our perspectives and expertise are resonating very well in the marketplace. From an industry perspective, the healthcare and financial services verticals continue to perform very well and steadily.

Also worth noting is the acquisition of Zeon Solutions, which we completed at the beginning of the year. That team brought a great mix of digital skills, particularly expertise with new commerce platforms like Magento that we previously didn't – we hadn't previously worked with, as well as significant digital marketing experience that complements and deepens our existing capabilities in this space.

So, speaking of M&A, in 2015, we'll be continuing to look to supplement our organic growth with firms that help deepen our expertise and expand our reach. We will be looking to add an additional $50 million to $60 million through two to three transactions by the end of the year.

So, turning our attention now to the expectations for the first quarter and full year, Perficient expects its first quarter 2015 Services and Software revenue, including reimbursed expenses, to be in the range of $107 million to $116.5 million, comprised of $102 million to $107.5 million of revenue from Services, including reimbursed expenses, and $5 million to $9 million of revenue from sales of Software.

The midpoint of the first quarter 2015 Services revenue guidance represents growth of 18% over first quarter 2014 Services revenue. The company is issuing a full-year 2015 revenue guidance range of $470 million to $505 million, and a 2015 adjusted earnings per share guidance range of $1.38 to $1.49.

With that, we can open up the call for your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann, Avondale Partners. Please proceed.

Good morning, this is Shane in for Pete. Regarding the bill rate, is there still some room to grow that over the course of the year?

Yes. We expect it'll continue to rise. We're shooting for – we've enjoyed about 8% to 10% in each of the last three years. And as I mentioned on the last call, we're going to probably dial that back a little bit, just because we're going to be opening some new accounts this year, focusing again on the organic volume growth. But we're looking still, probably, 5% to 6% of ABR increase. And then we'd like to supplement that with another few percent of organic volume growth as well, so that's our goal. That's what we're shooting for.

Okay. That's helpful. And then regarding some of the recent weather, are you seeing any weather-related impact to utilization in the quarter?

It's hard to measure that because it's been widespread. I can't say that we've seen anything materially impacting us so far this quarter. I'm sure there's some impact there, but again, I don't know, we're not aware of any major standouts.

Okay. That's fair. And then one just last one before I get back in the queue: what was the book-to-bill rate in the quarter?

Book-to-bill was, I want to say, a little over 1 again this quarter. So consistent with what it's been.

Okay. Thank you. Nice quarter.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon from Needham & Co. Please proceed.

Hi. This is Elizabeth Chwalk for Mayank. Can you guys give us some color around seasonality for 2015? I'm wondering if there's changes given recent acquisitions, and how revenue and margins will trend over the course of the year?

That's a good question. I think we're going to see a very similar pattern to what we saw last year. So, fourth quarter is always seasonally – utilization is always a little bit down in that quarter due to the holidays that are there, and the first quarter is a slower start to the year. Some of that's just carryover from the holidays, but also it's just ramping up on new engagements that start at the beginning of the year. So we're going to see, again, I would say, from a utilization standpoint, hopefully overall, we're going to drive that up some this year, but again, a similar pattern to last year. So, seasonally down a bit in Q1 and Q4, and probably peaking in Q3.

In some of the prior years, you'll see in Q1, from a cost perspective, just with the reset of all the payroll taxes, et cetera, margins tend to sequentially go down, but it'll follow a similar pattern to 2014.

Okay, thank you. And so, did you break out your organic growth contribution for 4Q and the full-year fiscal 2014?

It was 7.3% in the fourth quarter and for the year it was 4.8%.

Okay. And I think you've said that you were expecting high single-digit organic growth for next year, and can you guys break out what the dollar contribution you expect from Zeon?

We've actually guided to a similar organic growth to what we had last year. We're shooting to drive that higher. And ultimately, the things that we've put in place, I've spoken about on the last call, I believe, will probably take effect more in the second half of this year. So again, similar to last year, but I think, again, we've put some things in place in terms of our sales competition plan and our strategies around sales that I think will drive higher growth ultimately. But this year, again, our guidance is similar to what our performance was last year in terms of organic growth.

Zeon contributes, I want to say, about $24 million.

$24 million.

$24 million.

And then last question: any color around your healthcare business? What were some of the changes you saw over 2014 and how do you feel about this business looking out into 2015? What are some of the possible upside drivers to that business?

Yes. We continue to see tremendous opportunity in healthcare. We don't see any slowdown there. In fact, I think it still is going to be outpacing every other industry for us this year. Lots of analytics work; in addition to that, a lot of digital transformation work. We build a lot of patient portals, consumer portals, those patient-facing applications, but also as I mentioned, lots of analytics.

This is an industry, both on the plan side, the payer side, and the hospital systems, that really is running outdated or has been running outdated systems, and now needs to begin to think more like literally retail or consumer products. And they need a lot of systems in place to understand the data that they have and understand how to focus on that patient and reach out to that patient as a consumer, as a customer.

And we're – that's where I'd say we're seeing the biggest opportunity. Of course, there is still remediation around some of the government mandates but we're I think beyond that, at least Perficient is, and on to what I would say is more of the focus work which again is analytics and understanding how to compete, while managing costs, et cetera, in this kind of new era for healthcare.

Okay. Great. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Maxim Group. Please proceed.

Hi guys. How are you?

Good. How are you doing, Brian?

Good. So the first question I've got, I think the midpoint of the Q1 Services revenue guidance is down a bit, if I exclude the $4 million plus of Zeon revenue. I am wondering, is it that projects are slow to ramp while some projects are ending? I thought 4Q is generally, seasonally the weakest with the vacation in billable days. So I am just trying to understand the fourth quarter to first quarter trend in revenue?

Yeah. You know, for the last two years really, I would say going back at 2013, Brian, we've seen a slower start to the year. It is a slower ramp. In January, the buying cycle has changed a little, and we're seeing stronger bookings in the first quarter, but some of those would have been bookings that would have typically several years ago maybe closed in the 4Q. So it is slower. The midpoint of the guidance though organically is about, I'm going to say about 2%, 2.5% and so it's not down, it would be up about 2% to 3%.

It's 3%.

In the fourth quarter.

Yes. In the first quarter. The fourth quarter was 7%.

Right.

Okay.

Right. Okay. And then if we look at your second half of the year, you've had a bunch of larger deals that you won in slightly higher price – total cost or total value. I am curious, is most of this around, sort of what we call smack in some other and digital or, I guess, I am just trying to understand, is it transformational, is most of your new wins related to these new areas, maybe just color on what's driving those large sales?

Yes. I would say, there is a good chunk of that in there, and you know the reality is, what that people are referring to now as digital or digital transformation is really the work that we've been doing for a decade.

So, I would tell you that a vast majority of our business already was that, and continues to be that. It is the digital transformation of these businesses, and the ability to connect, whether it's through mobility of the web or whatever to customers, partners, whoever, whatever constituency that they need.

And so, I would say that I certainly see a pickup there, we are certainly driving more business that's directed and spend its influence by the CMO. So that's the shift, that a lot of the sort of nuts and bolts are very similar to what they've always been. We have added more frontend capability, we're agency of record for a number of our customers, and we do a lot of that work, and like I said, we have for a long time. So, I would say, yes, that is where the business is, but it's been there for a while.

And you recently added offshore capabilities through acquisitions. You already obviously had some too. Do you see the delivery mix continuing to shift, post this acquisition, towards offshore? Are you evaluating more opportunity to send more work offshore, or do you think the delivery mix will continue to be about what it is right now?

I think it'll be similar for the simple fact – similar mix as it is now, for the simple fact of what we just talked about. That a lot of that digital transformation work, the work that we do is highly iterative and some of it lends itself to be better performed on site. However, at the same time, to offer our clients the opportunity to lower their total cost, total investments, we're going to continue to drive offshore and continue to offer that up and, most cases, it's really up to the client.

Some clients have embraced it and like to leverage it and we certainly have that capability with extremely high quality. Some clients aren't as interested, and like I said, some of the work we do, at least in some phases, doesn't necessarily lend itself to it. So, again, I would say the mix is going to continue to be similar going forward.

I would add to that, that we announced last year that we opened a domestic development center, our near-shore development capability in Lafayette, Louisiana. And we are staffing that up now and ramping that up now. We're actually serving three customers out of that facility already and we're very optimistic that that's going to be another bridge that provides a little lower cost with high quality, but isn't offshore. So you've got the benefit, obviously, of no language barrier and very modest time zone constraints, things like that. So, I think we're going to see a lot – we have already seen a lot of interest there and I think we'll see pretty fast growth in that facility.

All right, thanks. And we didn't hear anything today about the software asset sales. Maybe you can update us, the fourth quarter, if there was a contribution to profitability at all, and maybe how it's in your outlook or how you see 2015 playing out as it relates to those software assets?

Yes. There's a tremendous amount. We have software assets, by the way, in several areas, but the key one, as we've talked about many times, is in healthcare. It commands the higher price and, I think, has good traction. So there's a tremendous amount of interest in that. We've got a good pipeline this quarter. We actually expect to close two deals there totaling $600,000 to $700,000. A couple of deals slipped into this quarter from last quarter. So last quarter was only about $200,000, but I wouldn't say that's a correlation to the interest level. I think the interest level is actually increasing.

Great. And then on healthcare, you mentioned the solid demand. The Supreme Court certainly started yesterday their case on – listening to the case on federal subsidies and whether they're legal. And if they determine that federal subsidies aren't legal and the Affordable Care Act maybe crumbles for at least a year, do you believe there's any changes in short term discretionary spending from the industry?

I think that's possible. Any time there's a major sweeping policy change, if that happens, I think the industry pauses, maybe, to reevaluate where they're focusing. The good news is very little of what we're doing is directly related to the Affordable Care Act. So I don't think it would be much of an impact. Like I said, the concern would be more: is there a pause or a hesitation, just in general, to reevaluate the portfolio of investments that those companies are making?

I think in the end that the investments they're making and that we're working with them on, again, aren't related to the Affordable Care Act and will continue on. So, I really wouldn't expect to see much impact from it. As a matter of fact, to be honest, I think it might allow more spending. If in fact companies are spending money to comply with the Affordable Care Act, and it goes away, I think there'll be more opportunity for them to spend money on the things that matter like the analytics that I mentioned earlier.

Great. Last question I've got, Paul: can you update us on what you see the effective tax rate, as part of what's assumed in the adjusted earnings guidance for 2015?

Yes. In the 2015 guidance the adjusted rate is 38%.

So, that's a little bit higher for the GAAP earnings?

Yes. It'll be like 39.5% to 40% for GAAP. And the reason it's higher than this year's rate is because, again, this R&D tax credit was passed in the fourth quarter for 2014 and, the accounting rules, you only record that if and when it's passed for 2015. So, if that's passed you would expect the rate to come down.

Right. Okay. Thank you so much.

Thanks, Brian.

Your next question comes from Frank Atkins from SunTrust. Please proceed.

Thanks so much. Can you talk a little bit about color you're hearing from clients and [indiscernible] (25:24) in the financial sector, and just what's going on in the financial services vertical?

Yes. Financial services, as I mentioned, continues to be steady for us and strong. We added that strong capability and management consulting focused on that industry early last year. That's been performing very well and the industry itself continues – it's a highly regulated industry and the regulations do change. Even nuances in the regulations can have significant ripple effects throughout the organization, both in terms of the business process and also systems. So, we enjoy the benefit of both, actually, since we do systems work and, of course, this management consulting. We see continued opportunity there. I think as long as the government has a heavy hand in that industry, and I don't see that changing anytime soon, there will be an ongoing opportunity for us.

Okay, great, that's helpful. And can you talk a little bit about the hiring and kind of the retention environment for kind of frontline consultants and what you're seeing out there right now?

Sure. When this question comes up, I always say this and it's a fact and that is – that it's always a challenge I think to hire or find really great talent. Usually, the guys that are unemployed or looking for job aren't necessarily the ones you want to hire. So, I wouldn't put the challenge any higher now. I actually think that we've got an incredible wealth of talent here at Perficient and that tends to breed talent and attract other talent, and we do real well when we go head to head with competition on hiring folks. We've got a good environment here and I think a culture that lends itself very well to the types of consultants that we're looking for. So, we're not intimidated by it. I do think there would be some wage inflation. We budgeted for that. It's in our guidance and I think it will still be below what our rate increases are for the year.

Okay. And then lastly, as you look towards the year guidance, can you describe what your implications or assumptions were in terms of software and hardware revenue for the full year?

It's got about $40 million of software and hardware in there. I think maybe -- yes, it contains a range of $40 million to $50 million of software and hardware. The midpoint on that guidance obviously we did $52 million last year. So we've got a conservative assumption in there, I think, for this year.

And seasonally by quarter, I think we would probably see a similar pattern of what we saw in 2014.

Yes, very back-end loaded.

Yes.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you, very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from [ph] Michael Martin from Michael J. Martin Associates (28:14). Please proceed.

Hi, thanks for taking my call. Could you give us little more details on the huge increase in hardware and software revenue in the fourth quarter, as well as the sharp decline in margins on that business?

Sure. I don't know if there was a tremendous decline on the margins. The software always runs – we average literally about 13% on software resale. We may have had I think one or two larger deals in there that what we call renewals, which are lower margins. So, there may have been some decline as a result of that. And again, I would attribute that somewhat to the surge as well, a couple of large renewals.

However, that said, we've had a great success with the two partners, the primary partners that we resell software for, which are Google and IBM. And Google is probably picking -- both of those were record years for us, by the way, both those spaces. So, I think we'll have another great year – good year in software. Again, I think you can expect over the course of the year, the average margin on software to be in the 10% to 15% range probably right around the middle of that. And software is lumpy. We had a good quarter. We're aligned with a lot of clients in terms of their needs for additional hardware, software. And again, I think we'll see something similar this year.

And one other thing that Jeff mentioned earlier, we had a relatively modest amount of internally developed software sales, which essentially have a 100% margin. So, the mix of that also affects the overall software margins.

Yes, sorry. By the way, [ph] Mike, (29:57) 10% to 13% excludes internally developed software.

Thanks very much.

Thank you.

I would now like to turn the call over to Jeff for closing remarks.

Okay. Well, thank you all for joining. We look forward to speaking to you again in a couple of months, and we look forward to a great 2015 for Perficient. Have a good day.

Thank you very much. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect, and have a great day.