corrected transcript


Perficient, Inc.
 
PRFT
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2008 Perficient


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Erica and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards


the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions].. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer


session toward the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]..


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Jack McDonald,


Chairman and CEO. Please proceed, sir.


John T. “Jack” McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. This is Jack McDonald. With me on the phone today we’ve got Jeff Davis, our


President and COO; and also Paul Martin, our CFO. I want to thank everybody for their time. We’re


going to have about 10 or 15 minutes of prepared comments and after that we’ll open the call up for


questions. Paul, could you now read the Safe Harbor statement?


Paul E. Martin, Chief Financial Officer


Sure. Thanks, Jack, and good morning. Some of the things we will discuss in today’s call


concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-


looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our


SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in


today’s discussion.


In addition, our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial


measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with


generally accepted accounting principals, or GAAP, is posted on our website at www.perficient.com


under News and Events. We have also posted a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the


most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website at


www.perficient.com under Investor Relations.


Jack?


John T. “Jack” McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


So Perficient had a very solid Q4 and particularly when you consider the environment that we’re


operating in. The revenue for the quarter was down about 9% on a year-over-year basis. Of course,


if you look at full-year revenues for 2008 as a whole we were up about 6%. Again, despite the


broader challenges. We had a little bit of help there obviously from acquisitions.


Revenues for the quarter, again Q4 came in above our estimates and also came in above analyst


consensus estimates, and we continue to generate healthy cash flow and we are building our


balance sheet. Jeff’s going to talk about this a little bit more later, but I think it’s important to note


that, yes, we are in an environment where customers are taking a little bit more time. We’ve talked


about this on a number of calls over the past nine to 12 months, a little bit slower sales cycle than


we saw and there’s a little bit more caution out there. But we are doing a very good job of


maintaining our relationships. And we are winning new orders and again, Jeff is going to talk about
corrected transcript


Perficient, Inc.
 
PRFT
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


this a little bit more in a moment. But there are exciting new projects that are starting on a regular


basis and that gives us hope for the future.


If you look at the number of clients served during the fourth quarter, there was just one fewer client


during the fourth quarter of 2008 than during 2007. And again, I think this speaks well to our ability


to maintain client relationships and also our ability to rebound when the market ultimately does. And


in terms of what we’re seeing out there on the demand environment, unlike what we saw earlier in


the decade when the tech bubble burst, we are not seeing wholesale project cancellations. We are


not seeing sales pipeline or backlog that’s evaporating. Those are the kind of things we saw post


the tech bubble burst. We are not seeing that today.


The balance sheet continues to strengthen as it has over the past year or so, quarter by quarter.


We’ve really never been in a stronger position from a balance sheet perspective. Currently about


56 million in net current assets, including 23 million in cash at the end of the quarter. And that’s


after repurchasing $9.2 million of stock. So 23 million in cash at year-end 2008, after repurchasing


9.2 million in stock during the year.


Current cash on the balance sheet if you look at where we are today, is still $23 million. And that’s


after an additional $2 million of stock buyback and paying year-end bonuses to non-executives, to


billable bonuses to consultants. So you’re looking at a cash balance that is up $15 million since the


end of Q3 even with the buyback and even with those other payouts.


And that’s partly the result of financing fewer receivables, right? Given the lower rate of revenues


that we’re at, but we’ve also improved our DSO performance. Paul is going to mention this more in


a moment by taking that DSO down to the low 70s, around 71 at the end of the year. So doing a


very good job of managing customer receivables and we’ve always, of course, had a very good


record in that regard given our blue chip customer base.


We continue to have access to a large credit facility, $50 million credit facility, with an accordion


feature that can expand it up to 75 million and we have got zero debt drawn under that facility. So


that puts us in very strong position to execute for the business, whether we’re looking at stock


buyback or acquisitions, and again of course, we’ve got cash – operating cash flow out of which we


can finance a stock buyback. We do obviously believe in this environment that the stock remains


undervalued. I mean we’ve talked about this 35 million roughly of EBITDAS last year. If we were to


hit the top end of our range for this year, the $200 million run rate for 2009, we’d be looking at


roughly 25 million in EBITDA. So you X out cash, the stock is trading for about – I don’t know, 3.5


times EBITDA. So we continue to believe that it’s significantly undervalued and that our best rates


of return are going to be achieved through share repurchases. So we’re going to continue to do


that. We announced the additional 10 million buyback a short while ago and we are executing on it.


And speaking of the balance sheet, we took a $1.6 million impairment charge in the fourth quarter


based on a detailed analysis of our goodwill and intangibles. We mentioned this on the third quarter


call and in other public statements we’ve made and appearances at conferences. I want to try to


take whatever goodwill we can off the balance sheet. You’ll take what – we constantly scrub the


receivables and look to take whatever settlement amounts or reserves we can. It makes total sense


to do that in this environment. Frankly, I was hoping to be able to write off more goodwill and


intangibles, but we looked through it and that’s all we could sort of agree to with the accountant in


terms of an impairment charge, going through it with the proper methodology.


So we’ve talked about that in the past. All a question – all a function, I should say, of continuing to


strengthen and scrub the balance sheet. Particularly important, I think, in this kind of an


environment.


Q1 is not fully baked yet on an annualized basis although, of course, whenever this first quarter call


– the fourth quarter call always happens a little bit later because of the year-end audit so we have a