Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer, Perficient, Inc.
Frank Carl Atkins — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Peter J. Heckmann — Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC
Brian David Kinstlinger — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q3 2015 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. My name is Getta and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today President and CEO, Jeff Davis. Please proceed.

Thank you. This is Jeff Davis. Thanks everyone for joining us today. With me on the call is Paul Martin, our CFO. Again, I want to thank you for your time this morning. As it is typical, we've got a few minutes here for prepared comments after which we'll open the call up for questions.

Before we go on now Paul, you please read the Safe Harbor statement.

Thanks, Jeff and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different and contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, and this is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We've also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations.

Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. And again, thanks for joining this morning. We're pleased to discuss our third quarter results with you today. As we indicated on the Q2 call, we expected a strong rebound in Q3 and that's what we reported. The great quarter all around for cloud, SaaS and digital transformation initiatives that are driving the growing momentum and we're uniquely positioned to capitalize on those trends for years to come.

Services revenue was up sequentially more than 9% and projects that have been delayed are now underway and growing as we had anticipated. New clients as well as expanding relationships are contributing to the success.

We continue to focus on leveraging the ABR improvements we've made over the past several quarters across the larger book of business to drive organic growth. Things are trending well there. Total organic billable hours in the third quarter were up 9% sequentially and 6% year-over-year.

Our intelligence sourcing model is resonating well with clients and it's driving more leverage of our global delivery teams. Our total offshore revenue represented 6% of overall revenues and was the highest it's ever been on a real dollar basis, up nearly 200% over the prior year quarter. And we talked about this in Q2, our acquisition earlier this year of Zeon was responsible for some of that growth but not all of it, because our customers further understand our approach and differentiated delivery model relative to the peer offshore firms, we're benefiting and seeing sustainable increased engagement there.

We took meaningful effort in the quarter to improve utilization and did so, driving utilization back to 80% for the quarter. That focus continues obviously into this quarter, the fourth quarter, and despite seasonality, we anticipate similar year-over-year improvements. Bookings during the period were the strongest they've been in seven quarters.

We've talked about this for a couple of calls, but it remains worth reiterating. Enterprises are reacting to market forces and competitive landscapes moving faster than ever. All companies are dealing with digital transformation and rising consumer and constituent expectations. Because we're able to couple unviable technical talent with creative capabilities on par with the best agencies in the world, we're in an enviable market position.

In fact that our largest account during the quarter and one we project will be a top five customer for years to come, we're helping an integrated managed care consortium with a complex multi-year initiative that represents the complete digital transformation of their business. We're working on more than a dozen projects with the account that improve digital experiences, integrate systems and deliver content to mobile devices.

We're improving member portal user experiences for shopping, coding and membership. We're also transforming the way members and caregivers seek, receive and pay for care with a streamlined omni-channel experience that enables them to access care where and how they want to, via phone, e-mail, video or in person. I mentioned this on the last call that Perficient is now the digital agency of record to a number of large accounts and more than two dozen mid-sized accounts. We intend in 2016 to push even further into that space. Our strong partnerships with many of the world's leading technology innovators continues to help us drive our business and underscores our differentiation.

We continue to receive meaningful recognition from our partners for the work and expertise we provide. We were particularly excited recently that IBM named Perficient as Worldwide Analytics Business Partner of the Year award. Obviously, a prestigious honor, encompassing all solutions under IBM's analytics software brands including Big Data, Business Analytics, Enterprise Content Management, Information Management and Watson. It's clearly an honor to be selected for this award given the tens of thousands of business partners IBM has globally.

So it's recognition like that from our partners and our track record of maintaining and growing long-term client relationships that continue to reinforce our belief that we're continuing to build something great and unique at Perficient.

I'll touch on a few other notable topics and speak to our outlook for Q4 after Paul shares the detail about the third quarter results. Then as usual, we'll open the call up for questions. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the third quarter 2015 were $120.9 million, a 3% increase over the year ago quarter. Services revenue were $105.4 million for the third quarter 2015, excluding reimbursed expenses, an increase of 5% over the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin for the third quarter 2015, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, were 38.2% compared to 39% in the third quarter 2014.

SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation increased to $23.7 million in the third quarter 2015 from $22.2 million in the comparable prior year quarter. SG&A as a percentage of revenues increased to 17.9% from 17.1% in the third quarter of 2014.

EBITDAS for the third quarter 2015 was $19.9 million or 16.5% of revenues, compared to $20.7 million or 17.7% of revenues for the third quarter of 2014, with the decrease primarily the result of the higher SG&A costs.

Third quarter 2015 included amortization of $3.4 million compared to $4 million in the comparable prior year quarter. The decrease is primarily due to intangible assets related to previous acquisitions becoming fully amortized, partially offset by the addition of intangible assets for acquisitions during 2014 and 2015.

Our effective tax rate for the third quarter 2015 was 33.4% compared to 38.8% for the third quarter of 2014. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to additional research and development tax credits recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2015 related to the finalization of the company's 2014 research and development tax credit.

Net income increased 1% to $7.4 million for the third quarter 2015 from $7.3 million in the third quarter of 2014. Diluted GAAP earnings per share was $0.22 for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share decreased slightly to $0.36 a share for the third quarter 2015 from $0.37 a share in the third quarter of 2014.

And as a reminder, adjusted GAAP EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensation transaction costs and fair value adjustments of contingent consideration, net of related taxes divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for that period. Our ending billable head count at September 30, 2015 was 2,326 compared to 2,152 consultants, including – I'm sorry, including 2,152 billable consultants and 174 subcontractors. Ending SG&A head count was 408.

Now, I'll turn to the year-to-date results. Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 were $340 million, a 3% increase over the comparable period last year. Services revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 excluding reimbursed expenses were $301.2 million, an increase of 5% over the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, excluding stock compensation reimbursable expenses decreased to 36.9% from 37.9% in the prior year period.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $72.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 from $65.4 million in the comparable prior year period. SG&A as a percentage of revenues was 19.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to 17.8% in the comparable prior year period.

EBITDAS for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $48.9 million or 14.4% of revenues, compared to $53.5 million or 16.2% of revenues in the prior year period. The nine months ended September 30, 2015 included amortization expense of $10.6 million compared to $10.5 million in the comparable prior year period.

2015 has included acquisition costs of $0.5 million primarily related to the acquisition of Market Street compared to $2.5 million related to the acquisitions of ForwardThink, BioPharm and Trifecta in the comparable prior year period.

Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was 30.5% compared to 40.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to additional research and development tax credits recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 related to the finalization of the company's 2014 research and development tax credit.

Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 decreased 8% to $15.4 million from $16.7 million in the comparable prior year period. Diluted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.45 from $0.51 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $0.86 a share, down 8% from $0.94 a share in the nine months ended September 30, 2014.

We ended the third quarter with $61 million in outstanding debt, up $1 million from June 30, 2015 due to the acquisition of Market Street and $8.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our balance sheet continues to leave us well positioned to execute on our strategic plan. Our days sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 84 days at the end of the third quarter 2015, down from 92 days in the third quarter 2014.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. A little bit on our sales results for the quarter. We sold 37 deals north of $0.5 million during the third quarter averaging $1.3 million each compared to 33 deals in the second quarter averaged $1.2 million and 35 deals in the third quarter of 2014 averaging $1.4 million.

Healthcare and financial services verticals remained particularly strong, collectively accounting for 46% of revenues in the quarter. And we talked for several quarters about our continued focus on developing and marketing Perficient owned IP to our clients. We closed the $300,000 deal during Q3 for our Healthcare Analytics Gateway product at a community hospital, are in discussion with a handful of other organizations regarding that tool, closing one or two more by the end of the year.

Notable on that by the way is not just the revenue from the IP sale itself, but each of those deals comes with an initial implementation of $1.5 million to $2 million Phase 1 with follow-on opportunities with these accounts. So it's a great door opener and opportunity to establish the relationship with new customers.

It's also worth noting that we completed the small acquisition of Market Street Solutions during the quarter. As Paul alluded to, that transaction has strengthened our IBM analytics capabilities and helped us expand a bit in the Southeastern United States.

Analytics remains the hot space and we're thrilled to deepen our skills and grow our geographic presence with that deal. As I indicated on the last call, we're still working to complete additional acquisitions by year's end and I remain optimistic that we'll complete a deal or two before the end of this quarter.

So turning our attention now to the expectations for the fourth quarter and full year. Perficient expects its fourth quarter 2015 services and software revenue including reimbursed expenses to be in the range of $118 million to $128 million, comprised of $107 million to $112 million of revenue from the services including reimbursed expenses and $11 million to $16 million of revenue from sales of software.

The midpoint of the fourth quarter 2015 services revenue guidance represents growth of 5% over the fourth quarter of 2014 services revenue. The company is revising its full year 2015 revenue guidance to be in the range of $458 million to $468 million and 2015 adjusted earnings per share guidance range of $1.20 to $1.24.

So with that, we can open the call up for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Frank Atkins with SunTrust. Please proceed.

Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to ask a little bit about the pipeline on the healthcare side, any areas of particular strength or weakness there?

Actually, very strong. The healthcare component in the quarter represented a big chunk of bookings, I think it was about 40% of bookings, so continued strength both on the payer and provider side. I do think that payer is having more money to spend and doing a lot of interesting things and the paradigm shift in the industry will imply that there'll be a larger gap between payer and provider. Right now, it's about 60%-40%, but I expect that that will probably widen favoring the payer side.

Okay, great. That's helpful. And a quick numbers question, can I get organic growth in the quarter?

It's just about flat, it was slightly down.

Okay. And then talk a little bit about the hiring environment and kind of retaining people out there right now, what do you think, any changes?

No, we'll remain about at the same level we have been on attrition. Hiring is always difficult to find great people, and obviously, those are the ones we want to hire. But I would say no notable change.

A quick comment though on organic growth as well. So as we noted in the prepared statements, down slightly on revenue, but actually up about 6% in the volume of hours. That's the best quarter of hours growth that we've had in a couple of years now. And that's on top of a modest growth that we've had throughout the year. So I'm optimistic that the momentum is shifting. As we design to, as we talk about our sales compensation plan coming into the year to drive more focus on growing the business at the core hours basis, a little less emphasis on expanding rates.

All right, great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon with Needham & Company. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good morning. Jeff, just to be clear so, you said the offshore revenue grew 6%, was that tied to the volume growth you just mentioned or was that separate from the numbers that you just gave out in terms of the overall volume growth for the company?

Yeah. The 6% was actually the percent of revenue represented by offshore. It's the largest percent that we've had so far. The growth was actually – it's actually been substantial. Our organic offshore growth year-to-date is around 25%, it's actually over 25%. And then of course, we've added to that, with the Zeon acquisition, the facility in that core, so it's driven over 200% in total, but organic has been over 25% year-to-date.

That makes sense. So just to be clear then, the 6% volume growth obviously is very impressive, but then, that would imply some pricing degradation. Is that pricing because of the offshore mix or is there something else going on in the sector where you're having to discount to win deals?

It's two things. It is certainly the mix shift offshore, which overall is a positive – I'd say strong positive. The other factor is, recall Kaiser from Q2, and we've got a volume based discount agreement with them that is kicking in now, based on the volume we have with them. So for roughly $25 million to $30 million a year opportunity, we certainly offered some discount there off of our standard rates, so that is a contributor.

And then, also our FinServ business, we had a slow point in the early part of the quarter, that's a high rate business, [ph] high 100s, low 200s so that netted (17:37) a little bit, but I can tell you that rates increased from July to September to October – I'm sorry to August to September, and again, in October. So we are seeing them come back. Our goal this year was to be up a little bit in rate, but not a lot again emphasizing more volume growth.

Okay. So that trend persists in 2016 where you'll focus more on volume growth, but you'll still get some rate increases or net-net we should see an improvement in the dollar revenue growth as well organically?

I think so. Yeah, I think so. What our push for is 10% plus volume growth, which I think even given the mix shift to offshore should translate to 7%, 8% top-line revenue growth in services.

That makes sense. Okay. And then you commented that the bookings were the strongest in seven quarters. Could you just confirm? You did say that I want to make sure. And secondly, what are the mix of bookings, are you seeing specific strength in certain verticals, and maybe just give us a more color on what are the drivers there?

Sure. That is what I said, so very, very strong quarter, obviously, we're going to close out the year strong, that's what's going to be most important here, or literally the December and really January bookings are going to be more of a tell for 2016, but so far, running very nicely coming out of Q3.

I mentioned that healthcare was a big driver there, about 40% of those bookings coming out of healthcare. But again, we're seeing FinServ pick back up, retail is doing well, automotive is doing well, energy is off, not surprisingly, we're a little down there, but for the most part, seeing decent strength across the board with that exception, I'd say manufacturing and energy kind of down everywhere else up, but healthcare again leading the way.

Okay. And then one final question. It seems that business has stabilized, and hopefully, we'll see improvement in 2016 as well. Should we expect to get back to some trajectory of margin expansion, and then how should we think about the various levers that you have to drive that margin expansion potentially in 2016?

Yeah. I think we'll see margin expansion again in the fourth quarter actually on EBITDA. I think we've got some tougher comps, tougher comp for gross margin on services in Q3 and in Q4, because we're running about 40% last year.

Right.

So we'll be about flat, but on EBITDA and net income, et cetera, I expect we'll see some nice expansion in the fourth quarter. Of course, with the dip in Q2, the overall year will be flattish, maybe down a little bit in EBITDA, but I do think that comes right back in 2016. Really the issue for 2015 is going to be Q2 now. So we're coming out of that in Q3 and like I said, I think you'll see nice year-over-year expansion in Q4.

Great. Thank you for the color. Thank you.

Thanks, Mayank.

And your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann with Avondale. Please proceed.

Good morning, gentlemen. Nice results. Just, Jeff, trying to think about the transition, increasing move to offshore as a percent of revenues seeing very strong organic growth there. Two questions. Are you seeing customers more willing to incorporate offshore as a portion of the project on a more widespread basis in order to lower the [ph] abundant (21:02) bill rate or you're seeing some pure offshore work?

And then number two, I would assume that an increasing mixed offshore has positive implications for gross margins. So kind of thinking about, in the next five quarters, we might see lower revenue growth, but that might be offset by or somewhat offset by some stronger gross margin growth, so the growth in EBITDA should continue to be pretty solid?

Yes, that's right. I think it's a combination of all those things you mentioned. Really, if you think about our top 50 accounts, our average tenure there is almost five years in those relationships. Over time, I think initially, in those relationships, we [ph] were (21:48) really entertained for offshore, as you're competing with the big guys out there, and we were willing to relinquish that.

But over time, I think clients have really grown to appreciate our more hybrid approach where we've got offshore resources and lower dollars but they're at the equivalent skill level and experience level of our onshore resources. So it's a project team in a hybrid basis, a little different than our other – than our competitors and offshore do it not quite as cheap, our rates are 35% to 40%, but our margins, of course, then are about 60% or 65% offshore to answer your margin question.

So yes, it's clients recognizing that there is a good value proposition there giving us a shot and actually being very pleased with the results and then allowing us to expand in those relationships and I would say, in healthcare, there's been a shift also. Two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, most healthcare providers and payers would shy away from offshore because of their compelling value proposition, they've changed and are adopting it more, and of course, we've got a lot of clients in that space. So a lot of our offshore work is increasingly becoming healthcare related. Yes, margins should be driven by that shift. We should see margin expansion.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. And then, on the analytics side, can you talk about what type of projects you're being engaged on in analytics? We've talked about some of the interesting stuff going on in healthcare, but are you seeing, say, the same type of interest in retail or other verticals and if so, could you give us some examples?

Yeah, we are. I don't know how specific I can get, but certainly, we're seeing it in more industries, retail for sure. I mean customer analytics and understanding omni-channel customer 360 views and helping clients with that and how to better penetrate, cross-sell, et cetera in the retail space. But really, I think in any industries now, even in energy, even though the industry is on the decline, they're looking at different ways to leverage Smart Meter data as an example, we've [ph] dealt with that (23:51).

I think there is a kind of a no end really to where you can apply analytics with the proliferation of data in all industries. But we've participated in that and a lot of different industries, as you've pointed out, healthcare is the primary focus, but certainly, we've enjoyed it in other places as well.

Okay. That's helpful. I'll get back in the queue.

Thanks, Pete.

And your next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger with Maxim Group. Please proceed.

Great, hi. How are you guys?

Hey Brian, good. How are you?

Good. So a couple of quick questions. And the first is, the bookings strength, I'm curious if that has continued into the early stages of this quarter.

October was up year-over-year, not as strong as Q3, but it's early. The big bookings month for Q4 would be December.

Okay. And I've got a lot of earnings calls this morning, so I wasn't quite clear, are you expecting services revenue, not including reimbursement expenses to be up sequentially, flattish, I know there is probably fewer billable days, given vacation and things like that?

Yeah, I think our guidance implies, if you look at the midpoint, certainly, the high end does imply increase sequentially. And I think some year-over-year growth on top-line and certainly in volumes, as we talked about earlier.

Is that a large healthcare customer continuing to ramp, is that what drives that right now?

There will be ramp a little bit from Q3 to Q4. But I would say, there's an overall sort of rebound in our business and we're seeing some organic growth that I believe will offset the typical seasonality, we see in the fourth quarter.

Okay. And then, I forget to look, but I'm not sure that you break out insurance as a percentage of revenue, maybe you do. If you could remind me what percentage of revenue that is and most of your peers have started to see some weakness in there. So I'm wondering if that's something you're seeing or something that is not impacting your company?

It's part of our financial services vertical we included in there, but we haven't seen any specific to insurance. We saw a little bit of softness in FinServ that may have been unique to us, but the...

It wasn't in insurance.

...in the middle of the year, but it wasn't in insurance.

Okay. And then finally, on the acquisition strategy a lot of the services companies have started to buy software companies to try to differentiate themselves. You've been an acquirer mostly of services companies. I'm curious if your pipeline continues to be mostly services companies and if you're thinking about any changes in terms of what you're buying?

No, it's still services. I think there is – we're always on the lookout for [ph] exciting (26:32) things and I'll tell you that with some of the services acquisitions we've done, we have picked up some IP and are leveraging that and we saw clearly, we get some revenue off of it but again, it's more of a differentiator and I think an opportunity to establish a relationship per services.

So services is still obviously the primary focus, but we're always on the lookout for that. We did make a small transaction I would say, not trying to call an acquisition, it's – where we picked up a product around Internet in a box sort of, if you will, recall Rise Foundation that we picked up in the third quarter as well. We'll report more on that later as we see it gets some traction. But I think it's always great to have differentiating IP, IP that as an accelerator or as I said, provide some unique differentiation.

Okay. Thanks so much.

Thanks, Brian. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Michael Martin with Michael J. Martin Associates (27:36). Please proceed.

All right. Good morning, and thanks for taking my call. Can you give us some guidance on the tax rate for the fourth quarter and next year?

Yeah. So the tax rate for the fourth quarter, as we mentioned, there were some one-time stuff related R&D in the third quarter, it would be around 37%. And we're expecting the 37% to 38% for 2016. Obviously, subject to if Congress passes the R&D tax credit for both 2015 and 2016, that could affect it in 2016, if anything would reduce it.

Okay. And one other question, I understood a large healthcare deal was the potential for $20 million to $30 million. What kind of timeframe do you see for that ramping up to that – running at that level?

We're actually getting pretty close to it now. We should be at about $30 million by the second quarter of next year. We're in the $20s million now, kind of low $20s million to mid $20s million right now. So it will run up to that level in the middle of next year. What's interesting about that account then and this is the beauty of our portfolio, we started with that one very large engagement which is great, but we're also expanding into a couple of other areas there. So where the peak on that engagement might be a $30 million annual run rate, the overall account I think is actually going to yield more than that as again we [ph] branch it out (28:59) into a couple of other areas.

And given that there is something like 5% plus organic growth just from that one deal, does that give you hope that next year, you're going to be closer to 10% organic growth?

Yeah, it sure does. I mean that will be our goal somewhere in that range. Obviously, we'll talk about that on our Q4 earnings call with 2016 guidance. But yeah, it's a great foundation. I think you made a good point.

Thanks so much.

Thank you.

And that concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's call. I would now like to turn it back to Jeff Davis for closing remarks.

Well, thank you, all. I appreciate your time today. We look forward to speaking to you in about four months.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.