Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Frank C. Atkins — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Joshua M. Seide — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC
Joan K. Tong — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Perficient First Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. President and CEO, Jeff Davis. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you. This is Jeff Davis. And with me on the call today is Paul Martin, our CFO. I'd like to thank you all for your time this morning. As typical, we have about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments. After which, we will open the call up for questions.

Paul, would you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements, and we encourage you to review the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning the factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussions. At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP, and this is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Once again, good morning and thanks for joining us as we discuss our first quarter results with you today. Momentum built as the first quarter progressed. 2017 is off to a solid start and ramping. Our revenue and earnings expectations for the year remain intact. As we mentioned on the Q4 call just a couple of months ago, we're focused on several strategic and tactical initiatives, we believe, will drive margin expansion to levels we've previously delivered. Those results have begun to materialize and will be reflected in our Q2 results when we report in early August. And I'm sure you saw in the news release that in addition to the quarterly revenue guidance we've provided historically, we'll now be issuing quarterly earnings guidance to provide the market with a better sense of how revenue will flow through to earnings in any given quarter.

And you can see in the Q2 guidance that we're projecting a strong uptick in Q2. Services margins during the quarter, Q1, were 36.1% consistent with similar period performance for several years. And importantly, we're expecting a 200-plus-basis-point increase to EBITDA in the second quarter and a similar margin expansion in the second half of the year.

One of the factors that will drive and improve margins is growing ABR. North American ABR was up 1% during the quarter, and we expect we can drive rates 3% higher by the end of the year which should translate into a 2% increase for the full year. Entering the year, we adjusted our sales plan to incent this behavior, and we're seeing the results.

There are a lot of positives right now as we move further into 2017. First, our pipeline is very strong. The pipeline is up almost 20% year-over-year. And more importantly, our high probability weighted pipeline is up nearly 30% from a year-ago this time.

Our brand and reach is building and we're now in conversations and deals we've rarely been in. Across the board, we're pursuing more business than ever before. You'll recall just over a year ago, we formally launched our new branded agency, Perficient Digital. Our work there is routinely winning awards, and we're now competing for and winning opportunities we otherwise wouldn't have.

I mentioned that strong weighted pipeline earlier. We expect soon to close a new multiyear deal near $10 million annually, much of which hinges primarily around agency of record status with a large healthcare provider. And there are other multimillion-dollar opportunities in the pipeline as well. We continue to develop and strengthen partner relationship with the world's leading and emerging technology vendors. During the quarter, Adobe elevated Perficient to its Premier partner tier. One of just six firms globally recognized with that designation. We're really quite bullish on the opportunities we have with Adobe and around that platform. We spoke last fall about the advantages we possess when it comes to H-1B reform. And now, with more definition there, we remain confident that we are well positioned on a relative basis against many of our competitors.

In fact, you may have seen one of the offshore firms earlier this week made news in their announcement that they'll attempt to hire 10,000 U.S. workers in the next several years. That's easier said than done, of course. And while our competitors scramble to adjust to the new regulations, we're able to focus on continuing to pursue and win new client relationships. In fact, all of the major IT vendors have a significant issue of some sort here as it relates to visas.

I'll touch on a few other notable topics and speak to our Q2 outlook after Paul shares the financial details. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. I'll discuss the first quarter results. Total revenue for the first quarter of 2017 was $111 million, a 10% decrease compared to the year ago quarter. Services revenues were $100.9 million in the first quarter of 2017, excluding reimbursable [indiscernible] (05:14) a decrease of 8% compared to the comparable prior year quarter. Services gross margin excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses was 36.1% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016.

SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation decreased to $23.4 million in the first quarter of 2017 from $24.5 million in the comparable prior year quarter. SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue increased to 21% from 19.8% in the first quarter of 2016. EBITDAS for the first quarter of 2017 was $14.1 million or 12.7% of revenues compared to $17.2 million or 13.9% of revenues in the first quarter of 2016. The first quarter included $3.6 million of amortization expense, compared to $3.4 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. Adjustments to fair value of contingent consideration of $0.2 million were recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2017 which included the accretion of the fair value estimate for the earnings-based contingent consideration related to the acquisitions of Enlighten, Bluetube, and RAS.

Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2017 was 40.2% compared to 31.1% for the first quarter of 2016. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to differences between booking tax, results on restricted stock investments during the three months ended March 31, 2017 versus the three months ended March 31, 2016. The tax application of restricted stock vestings were required to be recorded as discrete adjustments in the quarter in which they occur.

Net income decreased 50% to $2.7 million in the first quarter from $5.4 million in the first quarter of 2016. Diluted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.08 a share from the first quarter of 2017 from $0.16 in the first quarter of 2016. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.24 a share for the first quarter of 2017 from $0.29 in the first quarter of 2016. Adjusted EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensation, acquisition costs, and fair value adjustments to contingent consideration, net of related taxes, divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for that period.

Our ending billable head count at March 31, 2017 was 2,292 and that includes 2,118 billable consultants and 174 subcontractors. Ending SG&A head count at March 31 was 461. We ended the first quarter of 2017 with $38.5 million in outstanding debt and $10.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our balance sheet continues to leave us very well-positioned to executing our strategic plan.

Our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable decreased to 69 days at the end of the first quarter of 2017, compared with 79 days at the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, and 85 days at the end of the first quarter of 2016.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff for a little more commentary. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Regarding Q1 bookings, we sold 49 deals north of $0.5 million each during the first quarter. In fact, the average is $1.4 million each that compares to 40 in the fourth quarter averaging $1.4 million and 50 in the first quarter of 2016 that averaged $1.4 million as well. So, a nice uptick, sequentially in large deal volume and another strong first quarter bookings performance as I mentioned earlier.

During the first quarter, the healthcare and financial services verticals again led the way, with automotive and retail and consumer goods, also demonstrating strength. Collectively, those [indiscernible] (08:53) accounted for 62% of revenue; healthcare at 25%, financial services at 16%, automotive 11% and retail and consumer goods at 10%. And we've touched on this in the last call, but we continue to focus on moving upmarket and cultivating long-term relationships at the highest levels within large enterprise accounts. And it's something we've been doing quite successfully in recent years.

We've made great progress during the quarter, integrating RAS & Associates, the management consulting firm we acquired at the beginning of the year. And we remain committed to M&A and in active discussions with several firms, focused on adding $40 million plus in run rate revenue before the end of the year through that program.

We remained active buyers of our stock during the first quarter. We expect to continue that through the second quarter and the rest of the year. We've now repurchased more than 12.5 million shares of stock since the program's inception.

Finally, we're excited to welcome Brian Matthews to our board. Brian is a seasoned serial entrepreneur, a well-known, well-regarded business leader. We're going to benefit from his insight and leadership as we continue to grow the firm.

So, now turning our attention to expectations for the second quarter. Perficient expects second quarter 2017 services and software revenue, including reimbursed expenses, to be in the range of $111 million to $123.5 million comprised of $106 million to $112.5 million of revenue from services, including reimbursed expenses, and $5 million to $11 million of revenue from sales of software. The company expects second quarter adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $0.29 to $0.31. The company is reaffirming its previously provided full-year 2017 revenue and earnings guidance ranges.

With that, we can open up the call for your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from Frank Atkins with SunTrust. Your line is now open.

Thank you for taking my questions. I wanted to ask first on the healthcare vertical. Dig down a little bit as a percentage of total revenue, there's a lot of things going on in other areas as well. But as we look at the healthcare vertical specifically, can you point to any areas of strength or weakness there?

Yeah. Frank, I think we're definitely seeing a return of momentum there. A couple of things to keep in mind, I think a good portion of that downtick that you're referring to was actually kind of dilution from the acquisitions we've done that don't do healthcare, don't focus on the healthcare industry. So, it's more a result of that. However, as we talked to in the past, we certainly saw sales cycles extend there going into the election and, I would even say, kind of grew in the last quarter. But by March, we've seen that begin to reverse and we're seeing contraction there. We've still got a great healthy pipeline. So, I would say we continue to see good strength in that industry. We expect to have good results there, mostly driven by patient as consumer, and the move to consumerism within that industry, rooted in analytics and a lot of customer and patient facing applications.

Okay. Great. And conversely, you saw a tick up in manufacturing. Can you talk about what's driving the growth in the manufacturing vertical?

Yeah. We've had some anchor accounts there. One of them, I think, the largest Fortune 50 company that's the largest manufacturer I think in the U.S. is a key client of ours, that's certainly driving a portion of it. But generally speaking, I would say beyond that, we are seeing a little bit of an improvement there that I would say it's probably macro driven, but remains to be seen. Regardless, we're certainly seeing some nice improvement there as well as automotive remained strong.

Okay. And then a couple quick ones. What was organic growth in the quarter? And then could you touch a little a bit on the talent environment attrition? How you're doing attracting and retaining talent in this environment?

Yeah. The organic growth for the quarter was actually a contraction of about 11% or so year-over-year. And with regards to talent attrition in the quarter annualized was right around 20%, a little bit over 20%. Our goal is a little below 20%. And 17%, 18% is probably the ideal. I think anything below that is actually unhealthy as well. So, we're a little bit over that, but I'm not concerned about it.

In terms of talent acquisition and retention, we really had great success in finding the folks we need. I think, I mentioned some of the offshore majors trying to hire talent here. We've always had great success competing with them for talent. I think we're a preferred employer for a lot of reasons, not the least of which is culture.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Josh Seide with Maxim Group. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Over the last year or two, your largest healthcare customer has led to some lumpiness in your business and could you talk kind of about where you are with that account and any uncertainty or certainty that you see regarding that customer for the remainder of the year? Thanks.

Sure. Sure, Josh. Thanks. I think we're very stable there, is the way I would describe it. Since we had the partial pullback in Q2 of last year, it's been much more stable since then. I think the dust has settled. We're delivering against our expectations and the overall program is running much more smoothly. So, as it stands today, I think we're very stable there. We don't expect any additional gyrations going forward, of course, no crystal ball. But as things stand today, it's very solid.

Great. And then you mentioned last quarter some – you noted some lengthening in sales cycles overall. It definitely looks like there's been improvement there in the March quarter. Could you comment maybe on what you find is driving that shortening of sales cycles in the March quarter, and if you think that improvement is going to be sustainable for the remainder of the year? Thank you.

Sure. Thanks. I think it is sustainable, and I think the simple answer really is kind of the dust settling after our election. I think there's no question, particularly with hindsight that if you go back to about the middle of last year or certainly the beginning of the fourth quarter, and we can certainly see sales cycles extending then and carrying into the first of the year. But I think the dust is settling now, and I'm optimistic that that is behind us, and the trend is upward from here. I'm also encouraged by, obviously, we're a consumer-driven economy so, consumer sentiment is strong. And GDP in the first quarter was a little disappointing, but I think the seeds were sown for that long before this year and long before this administration. So, I'd say, overall, optimism that things will only improve from here.

Great. And then last one for me and then I'll get in the queue. You mentioned efforts to get utilization up into the low-80s in 2017, though it looks like it was flat Q-over-Q here in the March quarter. So, could you maybe comment on how we should think about the trajectory there for utilization throughout the remainder of the year? Thanks.

Yeah. Absolutely. So, keep in mind that Q1 was sort of a normal comp, and we did deliver gross margins that were flat relative to the last few years for the first quarter. So, we do expect, though, margin expansion both gross margin and EBITDA margin going forward. Utilization by March had risen to about 79%. We're in the 80s as we speak right now at the end of April, and into May we broke into the 80s, and we expect we'll be able to maintain 80-plus, low-80s through Q2 and Q3. And of course, seasonality will likely drive that back into the high-70s in Q4.

So, overall for the year, I'm still looking for a couple of hundred basis point improvement to utilization, and, of course, that will drive the same into gross margin improvement and a fair amount of that will drop to EBITDA as well.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Joan Tong with Sidoti & Company. Your line is now open.

Good morning, Jeff and Paul. How are you guys doing?

Hey, Joan. How are you?

Pretty good. Hey, Jeff, can you help us understand the longer term sort of the U.S. wage inflation environment? And obviously, you mentioned that like competitors talk about 10,000 U.S. workers and it seems like there will be more if this political tension continue. And I'm just wondering how you feel a little bit more medium term and longer term? I know that at this moment it's fine. And then to offset that, maybe you would have opportunity to increase ABR further? And obviously you do have a big gap compared to the Tier 1 here. Thanks.

Yeah. Excellent question. And we're certainly keeping an eye on that, and to your point right now, things are fine. But certainly as these offshore majors look to hire more U.S. folks, I think wage inflation is a concern. And we're prepared for that. The good news is that one, I think we're the preferred employer even if we have to pay a little more. I still think we get the resources.

And in terms of paying a little more, one thing we're doing this year is stepping up our campus recruiting efforts. We've always had great success there, and that'll help us keep costs in check. But I'll even say this as well, in the past, certainly when this industry was really booming, let's say, we go back to even 2010, 2011, or 2007, we can pretty quickly convert those rising costs into increased ABR. Clients will see ABR rising across the board. So there's less resistance actually and less expectation of lowering costs, and more of an acceptance of rate increases. So [ph] it'll get better (19:45) timing and making sure that we respond quickly. But I think we can do that. We've done it in the past. And, again, I think clients will be accepting of it because they'll see it across the board.

Okay. And then like in the past, you talked about offshore like expansion is being one of the growth driver for margin. Obviously, now we are seeing maybe longer term a little bit of a offset, maybe it won't be growing as fast or maybe just altogether this is not a strategy that you guys are going after going forward. Can you just talk a little bit about what you think? Like longer term, how you see this pan out? What is going to be the driver for gross margin going forward?

Yeah. Actually, we are very bullish on offshore, continue to be. Our gross margins for offshore, even though we've dropped our rates a little bit so we could drive more volume, that's actually still yielding about 55% gross margin and we believe we could pull that 50% above or up. The reality is the skill set that we employ offshore is different than the majority of our competitors. It's higher end, and so we can get and I think we'll continue to get good rates for those folks.

So, now we're very bullish on that. I think the mix shift to offshore continues in as much as I believe our offshore business will continue to grow at pace well ahead of the onshore component. And, like I said, we love that in terms of margin expansion. It obviously creates a little bit of a challenge to top line growth. But the tradeoff is fantastic margin.

Right. Right. Right. But then in terms of, like, the rhetoric out there like politically, like you still think that this is the right strategy obviously over the long term.

Yeah, absolutely. And keep in mind, we're not following a build-it-and-they-will-come strategy. We're following a more just-in-time strategy. So, if the market shifts, we can adapt to that. I personally don't think it will and even if there are some kind of import taxes or additional taxes imposed, again it's still an even playing field because that'll happen to everybody.

Okay. Got it. That's fair. And then, finally, on M&A and just talk a little bit about the pipeline, would you? And also, in terms of valuations and what are you seeing out there? Are you still like sort of looking at some of the very hot asset out there trying to beef up your analytics as well as the digital transformation type of capabilities and maybe just some color would be helpful. Thanks.

Sure. Absolutely. We do have a number of things in play right now on the M&A front. We've got one deal that we're pursuing a pretty focused arrangement with at the moment. So, we're not there yet, but certainly things are looking positive. That does happen to be in the digital space.

Valuations remain reasonable. We try to drive a 5 to 7 times trailing 12 months EBITDA valuation. And certainly for things in the digital space, we're looking at a multiple that's at the higher end of that range. But a lot of the way we achieve that is through an earnout, so we've got downside risk. So, we do have a deal that we're working on right now. We've got several others behind that in the pipeline and/or alternatives if this one doesn't pan out both digital as well as outside the digital space.

Okay. Got it. All right. Thank you so much.

Thanks, Joan.

And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back to Mr. Davis for any closing remarks.

All right. Thank you, all, for joining today. We look forward to discussing the Q2 results with you in a few months.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.