Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian D. Kinstlinger — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC
Peter J. Heckmann — Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. My name is Cristal, and I will be the operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only-mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr. Jeff Davis, President and CEO. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you and good morning, everyone. With me today is Paul Martin, our CFO. I want thank you for your time today. As typical, we've got about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments after which we'll open the call up for questions, of course. Paul, would you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff and good morning everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. This is posted on our website at www.perficient.com.

We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Well, we're pleased to share our third quarter results with you, a quarter in which, we continue to demonstrate the ability to drive bill rates higher, obviously leading to increased margins. In fact, services revenues were up 15% in the quarter with EBITDA margin up 30%, so we continue to scale the business and grow profitably.

We'll talk more about this later. But we're in a nice spot, I think, heading into next year 2015, to capitalize on the foundational margin improvements we've made over the last several quarters, we expect that that will continue. And in fact, we'll be pulling some levers next year to focus more on expanding the revenue base and driving accelerated organic growth. If we're able to increase the volume while maintaining or continuing to incrementally improve rates, and I think we will, it's going to be a powerful combination.

Regarding rates, we're at an all-time high of $150 an hour for North American employees, and by way of comparison, that figure stood at $137 an hour a year ago, so about a 10% increase there year-over-year and about 3% incrementally, sequentially, quarter-over-quarter. We've talked for several quarters about our continued focus on developing and marketing Perficient-owned IP to our clients or software.

On last quarter's call, we talked about having about $500,000 of asset sales in that quarter, in the second quarter, and we built on that success last quarter, the third quarter, by selling nearly $700,000 of in-house developed software assets. We'll talk a bit more about Q4 and 2015, of course after Paul speaks in detail about the third quarter. But with just a couple of months left in the year, we've tightened our full year revenue and earnings guidance, as you've seen.

Within the quarter, we sold 35 deals exceeding $500,000 each and they averaged $1.4 million each, in fact. That compares to 29 in the second quarter that averaged $1.1 million, and 25 in the third quarter of 2013 that averaged again $1.4 million, so some seasonality there. But again, 35 deals at $1.4 million each this quarter compared to 25 deals at $1.4 million average last year. So again, good year-over-year growth in terms of the large bookings and again, our land and expand strategy, I think in place and demonstrating that that is yielding results.

With that, I'm going to turn the call back over to Paul for the Q3 recap.

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the third quarter of 2014 were $117 million, which represents a 21% increase over the year-ago quarter. Services revenue were $100 million for the third quarter, excluding reimbursable expenses, an increase of 15% over the comparable prior-year period. Services gross margin for the third quarter, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, were 39% compared to 39.2% in the third quarter 2013.

SG&A expense increased to $22.2 million in the third quarter of 2014 from $20.5 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. SG&A as a percentage of revenues decreased to 19% from 21.2% in the third quarter 2013, primarily as a result of lower discretionary sales-related costs and professional fees.

EBITDAS for the third quarter 2014 was $20.7 million, or 17.7% of revenues, compared to $16.2 million, or 16.7% of revenues, in the third quarter of 2013. Third quarter 2014 included amortization of $4 million, compared to $2 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. This increase is primarily associated with the 2013 and 2014 acquisitions.

Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2014 was 38.8% compared to 29.5% in the third quarter of 2013. The increase in the effective rate is primarily due to the expiration of the research and development tax credit, which has not been reenacted by Congress for 2014, as well as the recording of the U.S. domestic production deduction for 2010 to 2013 which was recorded in the third quarter of 2013.

Net income increased 1% to $7.3 million for the third quarter 2014 from $7.2 million in the third quarter of 2013. Diluted GAAP earnings per share was $0.22 a share for the third quarter of 2014 compared to $0.23 in the comparable prior-year quarter. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.37 a share for the third quarter of 2014 from $0.32 a share for the third quarter of 2013.

As a reminder, adjusted GAAP EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, plus non-cash stock compensation transaction cost and fair value adjustment of contingent consideration net related taxes, divided by fully diluted shares outstanding for the period.

Our ending billable head count at September 30, 2014 was 1,867, which included 1,735 billable consultants and 132 sub-contractors, ending SG&A head count was 352.

Now, let me turn to the nine-month results. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was $330.9 million, a 20% increase over the comparable prior period last year. Services revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, excluding reimbursable expenses, was $286.8 million, an increase of 19% over the comparable prior-year quarter. Services gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, increased to 37.9% from 37.3% in the prior year period.

SG&A expense increased to $65.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 from $57.3 million in the comparable prior year period. SG&A as a percentage of revenues was 19.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to 20.8% in 2013.

EBITDAS for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was $53.5 million or 16.2% of revenues compared to $41 million or 14.8% of revenues for the comparable prior year period. 2014 has included amortization of $10.5 million compared to $5.8 million last year. 2014 has included acquisition costs of $2.5 million primarily related to the acquisitions of ForwardThink, BioPharm, and CoreMatrix compared to $1.4 million related to the acquisition of TriTek and Clear Task in 2014.

Our full year effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was 40.8%, compared to 30.5% for the comparable prior year period. The increase in the effective rate was due primarily to the expiration of the research and development tax credit which has not been reenacted by Congress for 2014, the recording of the 2012 and 2013 R&D tax credits in the first quarter of 2013 and the U.S. domestic production deduction for 2010 to 2013 recorded in the third quarter of 2013.

Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 increased 5% to $16.7 million from $15.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013.

Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.51 from $0.50 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was $0.94 a share, up 16% from the prior year period.

We ended the third quarter of 2014 with $74.8 million in outstanding debt and $5.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. With stronger October cash flows, debt today has been reduced to $56.5 million. Our balance sheet continues to leave us well-positioned to execute on our strategic plan.

Our days sales outstanding on account receivable were 92 days at the end of the third quarter 2014, which is up from 78 days at the end of the third quarter of 2013. The DSO increased during the quarter, primarily due to the timing of invoicing during the new ERP system implementation which has now returned to normal levels. Collections in October was strong and DSO should return to historical levels, no later than the first half of 2015.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Well, as I kind of alluded to earlier, it's a strong quarter overall and of course another great quarter for software resell. We've talked about that before, obviously not our primary focus, but a key differentiator for us in the market and an important service we provide both our clients and our partners. And of course, we are pursuing that because it leads to services work.

From the industry perspective, the healthcare and financial services verticals continue to perform very well and steadily. Heading into 2015, we are also optimistic around categories like oil and energy, retail and consumer goods.

Our vendor partners continue to recognize our work and expertise with various awards. During the quarter, we received high profile awards from both Oracle and IBM, additionally at Oracle OpenWorld. Our client B/E Aerospace received The 2014 Oracle Excellence Award for Fusion Middleware Innovation and Big Data and Business Analytics. Based on Oracle EPM work, we partnered with them on, around financial consolidation reporting cycles.

That's particularly important, as we've been working hard to reaccelerate our relationship with Oracle, so we're pleased to see that. I'm also sure that you saw, our board recently authorized another expansion of our share repurchase program, taking the total program authorization now to $100 million.

Our balance sheet continues to provide us with flexibility to invest in the business, pursue accretive M&A and execute the share repurchase program as appropriate. By the way, we've got about $22 million now outstanding on that authorization.

Speaking of M&A, on last quarter's call, we referenced still being hopeful that we'd be able execute one additional transaction during the year and we're still working toward that goal, we've got an opportunity in work right now. Of course, we'll share all the appropriate details when and if, we're able to finalize that, but I'm optimistic that we will.

Finally, I want to touch base on an important announcement we made in early September around the establishment of a domestic delivery center in Lafayette, Louisiana. Couple of us joined Louisiana Governor, Bobby Jindal to unveil our plans for the center, which will enable us to offer even more options and flexibility and delivery to our clients and further ensure that we always have the right skills, in the right place, at the right time, to serve our customers.

We're still early in the process there, but we've secured space, and things are underway. We've actually kicked off the opening of the center this month and we're keeping some details there, close to the vest for competitive reasons, but I expect we'll be able to provide some more color as 2015 gets underway. I can tell you that, we've had a number of our existing clients expressed an interest in leveraging that facility.

So turning the attention now to our expectations for the fourth quarter. Perficient expects its fourth quarter 2014 services and software revenue including reimbursed expenses to be in the range of $110 million to $120 million, comprised of $101 million to $106.2 million of revenue from services including reimbursed expenses and $9 million to $13.8 million of revenue from sales of software.

The midpoint of the fourth quarter 2014 services revenue guidance represents growth of 20% over the fourth quarter 2013 services revenue. Company is revising its full year 2014 revenue guidance to be in the range of $441 million to $451 million and the 2014 adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $1.27 to $1.31.

With that, we'll open the call up for any questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question will come from Mayank Tandon from Needham & Co. please proceed.

Thank you. Good morning. Jeff, as I look at the quarter obviously, the margin expansion was very strong and also you had very strong results on the software and hardware side as you said. But services seem to be a little bit light. I just wanted to get your sense of what is driving that softness? And also as I look at the guidance, as you mentioned, you've trimmed the range a little bit, it seems to be more services related, if you could just speak to what is maybe the areas that are softened versus what you had expected last quarter?

Sure. So as you know, we started the year pretty optimistic about accelerated organic growth better than what we've produced, and we expected some of it to come in the second half, but it just hasn't materialized. I wouldn't say there is specific softness around the summer months. There was definitely an extension in sales cycles and we saw that and I've heard another competitor's calls refer to that as well.

The good news is that we've seen it come back also. October was a strong month for bookings and as you can actually see in the guidance on a year-over-year, the fourth quarter guidance is really better, than the results from third quarter in terms of organic growth. And by the way, I should also note that, typically in the fourth quarter, we see, due to seasonality a sequential decline of 3% to 4% and I think our mid-point on our guidance is only down about 1%. We've actually got a shot at being flat, which again on a year-over-year is good. It also indicates that we are growing through that seasonality and offsetting some of the seasonality with growth.

So we remain optimistic going into next year. However, to be sure, we did not produce the kind of the growth that we expected to hear in the second half. Margin expansion as you noted has been very, very strong and one of the things and I mentioned in the prepared comments that we're going to be pulling some levers next year.

We've been very focused on closing that rate gap between us and a lot of our main competitors, the competitors we see most often. We've had great success with that. But honestly, I think we have been overly focused on that, or focused on that to the point where we haven't been enough focused on organic growth, and that's what's going to change going into next year. So we got a balanced plan, that we are putting in place around the incentives for our sales team, that's going to bring more focus back to the organic growth, while maintaining by the way, incentives and focus on margins. So I'm optimistic that we'll see improvement to organic growth going into next year and throughout the year, but yes, we're little disappointed in where things ended up in the second half.

Although, again if you look at a lot of our peers, I think we're still ahead of number of them maybe behind a couple of the offshore firms.

Okay. That's helpful color. But just to pull a little bit more. So in terms of organic growth, I think for the first half, you're averaging about 5% correct me, if I'm wrong? And then, in terms of the third quarter, and then the fourth quarter guidance, what was your organic growth rate in 3Q and then what are you building into 4Q?

Third quarter was a little under 4% – between 3% and 4%, we're right around 3.5%. And the midpoint of the fourth quarter guidance is 5% again.

Okay. So that will be in line with the first half? The 5%?

Yes.

Okay. And then that you mentioned, some of the softening and I just wanted to get a sense. Your peers have called out healthcare as being the area that has incrementally softened because of potential delays in regulations and then around discretionary projects. Is that what you're seeing as well or is it more broad based for you?

I think it's more broad based for us in fact, healthcare. And healthcare is always choppy. I think there remains a lot of uncertainty out there, not so much in the laws anymore. I think the dust is settled there, although with watching results from Tuesday that remains to be seen. We've not seen any impact, I think from that, it's been more a matter of both hospital systems and payers, still trying to figure out, where do they apply their resources and dollars and what are they going to tackle.

We've had great success there. Our bookings for the third quarter were like 47% healthcare I believe. So healthcare is very, very strong for us right now. And in the second half of the year, it's been strong. I think it's going to continue to be and going in to the next year, I still think it's going to be a leader for us from a growth catalyst respective.

What was the book to bill in the quarter? And then going back to the discussion around margins, if I understand your comments, you said, you've caught up with some of your peers on the pricing side, or at least you're closing the gap. Do you still expect some pricing expansion next year and then, what are some of the other levers you have to drive margin expansion over and above just pricing leverage?

Yeah, good question. So, the book to bill ratio through October is a little over 1, reflecting the softness we saw in the third quarter, but again, October it picked up significantly. I think the book to bill in the month specifically was well over 1 and again, brought up the whole six month average back above 1, and I expect that that trend will continue through the end of the year.

In terms of the competitors and rates, we are closing that gap some, but there's still substantial gap. So I do think there is some room on the rates, however, again our focus is going to be more on volume next year, or more balanced view of volume and margin. I do think there will be incremental improvement to rates throughout the year. Probably slightly ahead weight of wage inflation, which I would put at about 3% or 4%. So that's our expectation, and that's our goal.

But in terms of other opportunities or other levers to drive additional margin, our utilization in the third quarter this year was 78% compared to a year ago at 80%, and really the third quarter should be a strong quarter for us and I'd like to see that utilization more into the 80s, the low 80s, 81%, 82% something along those lines.

So you can see that if we added that 200 basis points, 300 basis points to utilization, the impact it would have to gross margin, as well as all other margins, would be significant. And I'm optimistic that returning to more accelerated organic growth will drive that additional utilization. So utilization is what we'll be focused on going into next year, and really just one or two points makes a substantial difference and can really continue to expand margins.

Remember that our goal around services gross margin is about 40%. So we're at 39%, you know is 40%. We're at 39% this quarter. And for the year, we're going to be in the high 30s and I'd like to see us getting into, maybe not for the entire year, but getting into around 40% or so, maybe low 40s, one or two of the quarters of next year. So that's our goal. That's what we're shooting for. We're very, very close to that. I think doing that and keeping that sustainable and then focusing on continuing to drive economies, which you can see in this quarter, we had substantial improvement to EBITDA and EBITDAS, that that will continue as well.

Great. Thanks, Jeff. I'll get back in the queue if I have anything else.

Thanks, Mayank. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question will come from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Maxim Group. Please proceed.

Great, thanks. Good morning.

Good morning.

Hey Brain.

First, in your prepared comments, I think you've mentioned on two occasions establishing a foundation to drive increased volume. I'm wondering if you can expand on that progress outside of the incentive change which is being done. And then, in addition, how are the sales folks responded to changes in commissions to growing longstanding clients versus going out and winning new business?

Yeah. I think – so the answer to your question, our primary lever is the compensation plan or the commission – variable compensation plan, not just for the sales folks, but for all of us. And so we're all tied to an aggressive growth goal, an internal aggressive growth goal, that drives our variable compensation, which is a significant component of our compensation, just like it is for the sales folks.

So that's the main lever that I'm referring to. In addition to that, of course, we've got land and expand strategy in place that we've talked about. We've identified, throughout the country and all of the various regions that we operate, what our strategic target accounts are, what enterprise accounts are, and beyond that, additional stratification of accounts and we've executed against that strategy, and I think it's worked very well.

If you look at our top 50 accounts as an example, we've managed to grow those on an 8% to 10% basis organically over the last three years or four years. What we need to do is – and we are shifting from a focus on the top 50 or top 100 to the next tier down as well, and continue to drive on an account basis and managing by account.

You hit the nail on the head, though, I think in terms of our current plan, did not provide enough incentive for our sales guys to go out and win new names. It's important in this industry, or really any industry I think, to foster a healthy relationship with existing clients, to continue to be there to serve them in every way that we can, and expand those relationships to their maximum potential for us. And we obviously intend to do that. Again, I think are executing well on that mode. I think what we need to do is introduce more new accounts to the mix to help drive that incremental growth. And, as an example, this year, our EP business rate is 90%. That's 90% of our revenue this year will come from clients we served last year, that's the trend so far. We've only got a couple months left, so I'm sure we'll be at that level.

Historically, it'd had been lower than that, 85%. And that's I think a healthier number, 85%. I think 90% is a little too high, so we need the balance. We want to keep the 90%, but then come back and add incremental new business to that. That drives us, again, hopefully to a double-digit level. That's our primary goal. We're not going to guide to that. That's an internal goal. But I can tell you that that's – but our incentives are all around and we again are shifting the sales guys to have similar incentives.

The plan is not fully rolled out yet, so we haven't really gotten a reaction yet. We've got a fantastic team of sales folks, very professional team. I think they will adapt to the new plan just fine and they're fair-minded folks and I think they'll see that – anytime you change anybody's compensation, it takes some transition, and we obviously were no exception. But we've made changes before and the folks have not only embraced it but really driven results beyond what we even expected. So I expect the same thing will happen. It's a great team.

And then how long do you think it will take in order to see the change in volumes, where you see a shift towards flat to then increasing volumes, is that first half of the year, is it second half of the year, how do you view that?

I think by the end of the first half, we should start to see results.

Great. And then, I'm curious how focusing on winning new customers changes your average bill rate growth, will it be modest next year? And maybe what does that mean for next year's opportunity to expand operating margin, will it be a little bit less than typical, is that what we should anticipate?

I think a good goal for us for rate expansion, rate increase next year on a year-over-year basis, so we're already on a significant run rate, right.

Right.

I mean, we did 10% this quarter. So if we stop raising rates, we'd still get a nice carryover from that into the next year. So I think kind of a minimum goal is probably still going to be 5%, which is again above our cost increases. So we should get some expansion there. And I think we'll able to achieve that. Again, the plan will be more balanced. So it's not going to drive the kind of acceleration around rate increases that we've had in the past. I think we've gotten to a point with the margins I explained earlier that we're pretty satisfied. It's just a little bit more that we want to do and then really drive the focus on the top line and on volume.

There were four acquisitions that don't have year-over-year comp from CoreMatrix I think to Trifecta, and with your 3% to 4% organic services growth rate, does that suggest that these four acquisitions are a meaningful lower revenue run rate than when you bought them? Is that where the weakness is coming from?

No. We did three this year. There might be one that's not in the Q3 from last year [indiscernible] (26:09)

CoreMatrix.

CoreMatrix, yeah. So there is one or two of those that did not perform – well, one specifically, that did not perform at the level that we like, it's improving, but the others actually have performed well.

Okay. And then I'm curious – I mean, clearly you mentioned a little bit of disappointment in how services growth has played out. Are there specific vertical or two that you've seen sales cycles lengthen or the ramp-ups go a little bit slower, and do you think it's temporary or do you think it's a trend that's going to continue?

I think it's temporary. One of the things that affected – there's two things that I think really affected us this year. One was actually softness in healthcare. And by softness, I'm talking really extended sales cycles. It's really getting the decisions made and ultimately those decisions have gone our way and gone well, but it's taken longer in some cases.

And one of the things I can say around healthcare and again, I think it's just all the noise that's going on in that industry, is that you can see sales cycles just expand and contract sort of regularly. So it's kind of hard to monitor, hard to pin down. Right now very, very strong and I would say shorter sales cycles, phenomenal bookings and healthcare in the third quarter and we've got a great pipeline in the fourth quarter and expect to actually have very strong bookings [indiscernible] (27:30).

And other industry though, that was impacted for us this year was retail. Retail is a great fit for us. We're very excited about our potential there. We've got a toolkit around retail from everything from management consulting and helping these, particularly brick and mortar companies attack the omnichannel problem that they have with customers who are both phoning in orders, going into stores and working online or going on to commerce sites.

So we've got everything from management consulting to actually implementing the commerce engines. And that scenario, where we enjoyed really nice strength and growth last year up until the point where we saw all the security issues and then not surprisingly that industry really shifted its attention and focus, resources and dollars on fixing those security problems and preventing any future ones. So that impacted us this year. Our retail revenue is down. But we see it coming back already and we remain optimistic about next year and beyond in that space. It's a perfect fit for us actually.

And then you mentioned oil and energy and consumer goods as three areas of opportunity. I think, sounds like, I would suggest for next year since we're at the end of the year, what's driving that – those industries to increase IT demand?

Well, certainly and I kind of covered retail and consumer goods. I would sort of lump together in the way, I'm talking about. It's the movement of data and the integration between the consumer goods companies and the retail outlets that sell their goods and all that. So there is the opportunity there.

In terms of oil and gas, it's an industry that is doing very, very well. They've got a lot of money and they've been using that money, deploying that money, I would say more aggressively than other industries are, that's going to be sitting on cash and of course, oil and gas have – oil and energy has so much cash, it's hard to sit [ph] on oil and gas (29:29). But, they're spending money improving their business, adding technology and improving the technology everything from literally fracking technology and big data, data analytics around mining and identifying deposits all the way through serving the end consumer with smart meters and app technology as well as just improving the efficiency of their business. So I said they've got the money to spend, they're spending it and really upgrading the technology and I would say improving their businesses through improved business process.

Great. Last question I have is how you think about share repurchases versus acquisitions. You built up a little bit of debt, obviously, with your acquisition that you've already completed. So, how do you weigh the two as you look forward?

Yeah. It's a good question. I think, we feel like the stock is undervalued here and certainly, we plan to step up the buyback. As I mentioned earlier, we extended the authorization there. We've got – I'd also mention remaining on that authorization about $22 million, and we do intend to deploy a good chunk of that next year, possibly all of it.

Great.

In terms of acquisitions, I mentioned we got one more this year that I believe will get done, I'm optimistic. And then, like we did from the beginning of this year to the end here, we'll take a break again, and in that break, we're going to be focusing on organic growth and we're going to be focusing on buyback. And I think that break will also allow us to free up some cash to use that way. So, we're very bullish on buyback, I can tell you that.

Great. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from the line of Peter Heckmann from Avondale. Please, proceed.

Good morning, guys. Most of my questions have been asked, but just wanted to get an update on the facility in Louisiana, kind of the timing of the expense ramp related to opening that facility and staffing it up and those employees, in terms of counting them for our model, would they appear in the offshore line, or how exactly does that impact our blended bill rate and how we model?

Yeah, so I'll start at the end. They will be considered North American employees for our purposes. As that center grows, and if it grows to the point where we really think it's maybe diluting rates, we'll probably break it out as well, but it won't be with offshore, it will be separate – its own separate category. So obviously, it's a slow ramp up. We've got two, three employees literally now. We just opened the facility, just starting, just bought furniture, and we do have a small book of business, by the way. We've got a maintenance and support offering that we have now. We've got some legacy clients that are on that program.

So we'll be transitioning that work into the center as sort of the first piece of business that they'll be doing there and then building on it from there, as the demand allows. We're not going to build very far ahead. Although, like we did with offshore, we will drive more of a hire to bench approach there. So you've got those resources available to be deployed quickly. And also potentially, any training that we might need to do.

So the specifics on head count numbers for next year, Pete, I don't have in front of me, and we've got a model that we've modeled out and I'd be happy to provide that, maybe we'll post something or send you guys all something, give a little more detail around the center. I don't think there will be a major impact next year to head count. We're not going to go hire 200 people tomorrow. So the numbers, I think ,will be lower than that. If things work out great, that might not be true, but my expectation is that we end the year next year somewhere around 40 people or 50 people there.

Okay, that's helpful. And then just – I would expect, given current utilization rates, current bookings rates, probably the organic hiring is somewhat muted. I would expect you're hiring in select areas where you're always hiring. But are you sensing any change in expectations on the part of candidates in terms of compensation, while we continue to hear somewhat tepid commentary from a number of IT services peers, certainly, there are some tech companies that are hiring internally, and does that competition provide some wage inflation?

Great question. So we look at a few different sources, third-party sources, and we – specifically modeling offshore, but also onshore. And I think I mentioned earlier, we expect wage inflation in the U.S. for IT at about 4% next year. However, we won't experience all of that. We are continuing to build out the base of our pyramid. So a lot of the hires that we're bringing in are new hires or more junior, and below our average costs. So for Perficient, we'll be modeling about a 3% increase to cost driven by wage inflation.

Helpful. Thank you.

Thank you.

And with no further questions in the queue, I'd like to turn the call back over to Jeff Davis for closing remarks.

All right. Well, listen, thank you all. Appreciate your time today again, and look forward to speaking to you in about four months with our year-end and full year guidance for 2015. Take care.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.