Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Surinder Thind — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Kyle Peterson — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian Kinstlinger — Analyst, AGP/Alliance Global Partners
Dan Dolev — Analyst, Instinet LLC
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Allen Klee — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q2 2019 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen -only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Jeff Davis, Chairman and CEO. Sir, please go ahead.

Well, thank you and good morning, everyone. Thanks for being with us. With me on the call today Paul Martin, our CFO. I want to thank you for your time this morning. As it is typical, we've got about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments. After which, we'll open the call up for questions. Paul would you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward -looking statements within the meaning of the Security laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause these results should be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

Anytime during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS, our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP which is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Well, once again thank you for joining. We're pleased to be with you this morning to discuss our second quarter results. In many ways, the numbers speak for themselves. I couldn't be more proud of the team and its performance during the period. We're again able to raise earnings guidance for the full year. On the first quarter call, we discussed the gains we're making in the market, in terms of the perception of Perficient. And we referenced a few existing clients, Fortune 1000 and Fortune 100 firms where we're expanding the relationships and gaining new work and taking share, turning $1 million clients into $5 million clients, $5 million clients into $10 million, $10 million into $20 million and so on, is a key focus for us, and critical part of our plan to continue to accelerate growth in the years ahead. But we're also focused on breaking down new doors and winning logos, and on that front we're succeeding as well.

Earlier this year we began partnering with a largest non-profit healthcare system in the country to evaluate the performance of their digital [indiscernible] (00:02:52) platform. Our team was subsequently engaged to modernize the client's health facing portal, which shares the entire enterprise. Important in winning this work was Perficient's expertise in implementing content management processes and technologies.

The client's executive teams commended Perficient's speed, efficiency and quality assurance as key differentiators relative to their prior vendor. So, a great example of a substantial new client with a significant opportunity for additional opportunities and another illustration of the deep roots we continue to build within the health sciences vertical. Another recent partnership we earned is with a leading financial technology company, where we're developing wealth management platform for their client, the world's largest wealth manager. We'll build and monitor digital platform that optimizes financial advisory productivity, create a richer client experience and transforms enterprise operations, in addition to providing the technical consulting and architectural support for the project, we're building the roadmap to defining long-term growth strategy for the platform.

One final example of our momentum in gaining customers is the work we won with a [ph] $60 billion (00:04:00) multi-line health insurer, where we're optimizing the corporate performance management function. We're using our deep knowledge and expertise in enterprise performance management to develop a comprehensive solution that will modernize and streamline the client's financial consolidation, reporting and forecasting process. We're engaged with the financial team for this initiative but also talking with other lines of business and departments of an additional digital transformation needs and opportunities. That's an illustration obviously of the strength of our model, we have the breadth and depth of skills to penetrate these accounts from a variety of angles and deliver and gain the credibility to engage with other parts of the organization. The great work we deliver for the CMO, as an example, often earns a discussion with the CIO or CFO, or the leaders of the lines of business and so on.

Now, we're seeing the strategic investments we've made in the business in recent years coming together right now and the result is solid top line growth and even more pronounced profitability gains.

With that, I want to turn the call back over to Paul to share the great news around these key performance indicators before I touch on a few additional items, and our outlook for the third quarter and updated guidance for the year. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Services revenue were $141.2 million for the second quarter of 2019, a 17% increase over the comparable prior-year period. Services gross margin percentage for the three months ended June 30, 2019, excluding reimbursable expenses and stock comp increased 270 basis points to 39.1% compared to the prior period.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $30.5 million in the second quarter of 2019 from $25.3 million in the comparable prior-year period. SG&A expense excluding stock comp as a percentage of revenue increased to 21.5% from 20.8% in the second quarter of 2018. EBITDAS for the second quarter of 2019 was $23.6 million or 16.6% of revenues compared to $18.4 million or 15.1% of revenues in the second quarter of 2018.

The second quarter included the amortization expense of $4 million compared to $4.1 million in the comparable prior year period. Net interest expense for the second quarter of 2019 increased to $1.9 million from $0.5 million in the comparable prior-year period, primarily due to noncash amortization of debt discount and issuance cost related to the company's convertible senior notes that were issued in September of 2018.

Our effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was 26% compared to 26.2% for the second quarter of 2018. Net income increased 46% to $8.5 million for the second quarter of 2019 from $5.8 million in 2018. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.27 a share for the second quarter of 2019 from $0.17 in the comparable prior-year period. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.52 for the second quarter from $0.38 in the second quarter of 2018. See the press release for a full reconciliation to GAAP earnings.

I'll now turn to the six months results. Services revenues were $274.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019, a 14% increase over the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin percentage for the six months ended June 30, 2019 excluding reimbursed expenses and stock comp increased 210 basis points from 38.4%.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $60.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 from $51.7 million in the comparable prior-year period. SG&A expense excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue increased to 21.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 from 21.3%. EBITDAS for the first six months ended June 30, 2019 was $43.3 million or 15.7% of revenues compared to $35.3 million or 14.5% of revenues in the comparable prior year period.

The six months ended June 30, 2019 included $8.1 million compared to $8 million in the amortization expense. Net interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2019 increased to $3.7 million from $0.9 million in the comparable prior-year period primarily due to noncash amortization of debt discount and issuance cost related to the September 2018 convertible senior note offer.

Our effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2019 was 23.4% compared to 24.9% in 2018. Net income increased 44% to $15.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 from $10.8 million. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.48 a share for the six months ended June 30, 2019 from $0.32 in the prior year. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.94 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 from $0.72 in the prior-year.

Our earning billable head count at June 30, 2019 was 3,068 including 2,790 billable consultants and 278 subcontractors. And the SG&A head count at June 30 was 519.

Our outstanding debt net of unamortized debt discount and deferred issuance cost as of June 30, 2019 was $122.3 million compared to $120.1 million at year-end. We also have $34.3 million in cash and cash equivalents as of June 30. And our balance sheet continues to leave us very well positioned to execute on our strategic plans.

Finally, our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable was [ph] 59 (00:09:46) days at the end of the second quarter compared to 75 days at the end of the second quarter of 2018.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff. Thanks.

Thanks, Paul. Well, the first half of the year was very strong from a bookings perspective, and the second quarter was another healthy period for large deal bookings. We booked 62 deals north of $500,000 in the quarter. During the quarter, the health sciences, financial services, retail and consumer goods, automotive and manufacturing verticals combined to represent 76% of revenue. Healthcare was at 30%; financial services at 17%; automotive at 10%; manufacturing at 10%, and retail and consumer goods at 9%. Normalized bookings growth for financial services and manufacturing were particularly strong during the quarter.

Our future success in the manufacturing vertical will be the result of continued progress with existing accounts, while also come from the expertise and client roster that the second quarter acquisition of Sundog Interactive [indiscernible] (00:10:45). We're very excited to add their manufacturing industry expertise and strong channel ties with sales force to the team. There has been great collaboration and opportunity already as we've introduced their capabilities into existing account discussions. I've been with Perficient for nearly two decades, and firmly believe we're as well positioned today as we've ever been deliver value to our clients, colleagues and shareholders going forward.

The influence we wield with our customers and the impacts we make on their behalf have never been greater. Coming into 2019, we're optimistic that it could be a very strong year of growth. And that certainly held through in the first half of the year. Double-digit revenue growth, meaningful margin expansion, and continued strong cash flow from operations resulted in – from the incredibly work delivered by our global team, now more than 3,500 colleagues strong. A team I generally believe is the best in the business. And the same values that have powered our move from startup to more than $500 million in revenue, now will guide us to $1 billion and beyond.

With that, I'm pleased to share our third quarter outlook and updated guidance for the full year. Perficient expects third quarter 2019 revenue to be in the range of $140 million to $145 million, third quarter GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.26 to $0.29, and third quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.53. Perficient is adjusting and narrowing its full-year 2019 revenue guidance range to $553 million to $568 million from the previously provided range of $545 million to $570 million, raising its 2019 GAAP earnings per share guidance range to $1.02 to $1.12 from $0.90 to $1.02, and it's raising its 2019 adjusted earnings per share guidance range to $1.94 to $2.04 from $1.82 to $1.94.

With that, we can open up the call for questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Surinder Thind of Jefferies. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

I'd like to start with a question on [ph] Perficient (00:13:11) top line. But just can you reiterate the new deal wins that were $500,000 I missed that number.

62 it's north of $500,000.

Okay, thank you. So when I kind of, when I look at organic growth it hit double-digits this quarter. How broad base is that growth that you're seeing? I mean when I look at it the revenues by industry or by solution type or platform it's a little bit hard to tease out given the granularity of the data that's provided. So any color there would be helpful?

Yeah, now it's pretty broad based, actually led though, as has been the case for a number of years now, by our health sciences group. The healthcare continues to be a great growth area for us and we're also seeing financial services come along pretty strong, and then – and I'd say the rest is sort of kind of tide lifting all boats. There's not a sector that comes to mind that's in decline. But those are the leaders.

Understood. And then in terms of it seems like you're seeing strength in financial services. If we were to maybe turn to commentary from other management teams, obviously financial services at this point commentaries maybe have been a little bit more cautious on recent earnings calls. Any color that you can provide there in terms of obviously you've seen a lot of strength but maybe how you're thinking about it on a go forward basis. Is that – it doesn't seem like that's true for you guys.

Well, I think the reason might be this. We've had a great management consulting practice focused on financial services for a number of years now and more recently, probably in the last 12 months to 18 months, we've been able to more effectively leverage that than in the past to drive digital transformation opportunities. So a lot of what we're seeing new opportunities and growth in financial services is actually in the digital transformation space. I mentioned the one example during the call, building a substantial wealth management platform for a large wealth manager. We're doing a lot of other quite interesting things in terms of process workflow, improving loan approval, turnaround times, underwriting using AI, so really pretty amazing stuff from a technology standpoint. Actually that's what we're really seeing the growth although the management consulting business continues to do well also.

Understood. And then maybe one quick follow-up on it in terms of just- can you remind us the level of visibility that you have in terms of your future revenue streams? How good is that visibility into Q3 in terms of what percentage of that revenue is booked when we think about guidance, and maybe how that changes in the subsequent quarters?

Yeah, it's a good question. I would say we've got probably about a 90% straight line to Q3 as we sit here today, obviously we're already a month into it. So that's a benefit. And then for the rest of the year, let's say, Q4, I would say we're probably 60%, 70% of solid pipeline. But beyond that, a lot of our revenue, as you know, is repeat business or repeat relationships. So, we actually have pretty good visibility in working with our clients and what their spend is going to be. But it is a project based business. And so, it's not 100% by any means, but again I would say 90% for the remainder of Q3 and then drops off to maybe 70% or so for Q4.

Thank you. I'll get back in the queue for some follow-ups.

Thank you, Surinder.

Our next question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon of Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning. This is actually Kyle Peterson on for Mayank. Thanks for taking the questions. Want to start off, we noticed the ABR seen a nice tick up this quarter. Is there anything kind of one-time in there or is that just kind of routine pricing increases? Just want to see if that's kind of a sustainable lever to the top line.

I think it is – it's one of those things that again in the project based business it's going to move around, it's not going to be a straight line up. However, we've been talking for a while now about our desire, our goal to move that up 2% or 3% per year. And I think what you're seeing here is a result of those efforts. We've put some new mechanisms in place, more checks and balances on our pricing process, and I think you are seeing a direct result of that. Again, I'm not suggesting it's necessarily going to be a straight line from here, but it is a direct result of some of those efforts.

Great. That's good color. And then, just wanted to touch a little bit. Obviously, it looks like the services revenue growth organically has been churning up here in the last couple of quarters, the deal win cadence has been good. When we think kind of longer term, how should we think about the organic growth potential in the services business?

Yes, it's a great question and I'm going to fall back on a number that I've used for a while now. And it's taken us a while to get here, and again, I'm going to tell you probably not a straight line here either, but our goal has always been 10%-plus. I think there's no reason in terms of our portfolio and the market we serve, that we can't be growing at, at least 10% organically and really beyond that. So that's our goal. Again, no guarantees on a slight line there, but I do expect that we can get there. And I think we will.

Keep in mind also, I've spoken a lot about the work that we've done, our sales model, and without getting into all the details there, I think we're seeing some benefits from that, but I think the most important factor is that probably about half of our sales team right now has a relatively short tenure. So aren't as productive yet as those that have been here a while. So there's a lot of dry powder, is the way I would describe it in our sales ramp still. So, I feel good about that, and I think that's going to help us get to that level and beyond. And again, probably not a straight line, but we're going in the right direction.

Great. That's helpful. And then last one from me then I'll hop out, just wanted to get a little bit of update on your M&A pipeline outlook for the year, and you guys have the acquisition of Sundog earlier but just wanted to see kind of what's potentially in the works that you guys are looking for and the like?

Yeah, we've been interested for a while now in the Latin America – Central America for offshore, primarily, maybe something that has some domestic services as well but primarily is a – another offshore or a near shore outlet. So we got some things in the works, but they are still fairly early stages. And the pipeline itself is pretty robust. We're always very selective. Our goal is to try to get about $50 million of run rate done, but we've come up short of that a few times simply because we tend to be pretty choosy and we're not going to take on big risk in the – in M&A when we don't need to. So I'd say the pipeline is good, optimistic. We'll get another deal, maybe two done this year, and that's where it stands as of right now.

Great, it's good color. Nice quarter. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Alliance Global. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey, Brain.

I want to touch on pricing one more time, if you don't mind. In 2017 and 2018, you [indiscernible] (00:21:06) by my model. Basically all years, both of those years. So I guess I'm trying to understand – and most of your growth was volume, so it's nice to see both hitting right now. I'm trying to understand in the past some of that increase in rates you acquire – you make acquisitions with higher rates. Sometimes it's technology driven, sometimes you're bringing on customers at a higher rates. Can you maybe just touch a little bit more on which these factors or all of them are driving this renewed increase in rates?

Yeah, it's a great question. We do occasionally find acquisitions that have higher rates than our average. Often times they are a little bit lower, usually they are kind of neutral. And, but I would tell you this most recent increase here of nearly 2% is primarily organic. So, as I said earlier it's a direct result of the efforts that were put in place to try to drive it up. And again not a straight line likely, but I would say 75% at least of that was organic. I think the number was like 1.9%, and when I say organic it was like 1.7%.

And so is it fair to say that after a couple of years of getting volume on track, you're focused a little bit more on price than you were as you were. Or is it just really a function of that's how it's played out a little bit more here, and maybe you tried in the years past it didn't play out like that. I'm just curious is it more, is it just more of a attention now to price in the last two years?

It is. I mean [indiscernible] (00:22:41)

Okay.

...we backed off of price. We are focused on volume and we've been working on striking that right balance. So this is again an effort towards doing just that. We don't want to push it too far, obviously.

Right.

Because [indiscernible] (00:22:53) So, but it's an effort to try to balance the two.

Now, I saw while FinTech – and I'm sorry financial services and healthcare has always been a strong vertical. One of the verticals I saw that's made a big move and smaller numbers is automotive. So is there something interesting happening there or was that part of the Sundog acquisition? I'm curious what's driven some of that growth.

No, that's primarily organic as well. We've got a couple of nice major accounts there, in particular we've talked about Ford for years. And so we've got a long-term relationship with FordDirect, which is a joint venture between Ford and the dealer network. We've also built a relationship over the last – particularly in the last 18 months or so with [indiscernible] (00:23:42) so that's where some of that growth is coming for, but from – but we're also working with, I want to say, four or five other auto manufacturers, as well as some aftermarket companies, and online retailers where we're seeing some of that growth. And it's fun because [ph] one of the reasons (00:24:01) we're able to expand that is building on the expertise that we really have actually in the industry. So our qualification to the industry are good and so we are competing very well there right now.

Great. Two more. The first one, two more questions, the first one is, Pivotal recently announced some disappointing revenue and it's only 4% of your revenue in your filings, but I'm curious does that change your hiring plans in any way? Or how you're training employees right now? Did it have any impact there in the business?

You know, yeah, that's a great question. I think that's short live for them, I think the sales cycles are longer than they've projected. However, yeah, we've been able to adapt very effectively to that. The folks that we've trained on Pivotal are affordable to a lot of other platforms. And the reality is, they're still busy on Pivotal, even though Pivotal's license number is a little disappointing, we still have a number of accounts and relationships that are growing around Pivotal deployment.

So, for us, it's not as quick, it's not much of a growth opportunities, maybe we originally thought it was yet. But we've adapted to that in terms of the hiring and training and like I said all the folks that we have are fully deployed.

Great. Last question I have, supposing U.S. taxes China imports, can you speak to the impact on your business. I remember, you've got some China delivery. Is there any impact? And if there is, what is it? And then, are you able to shift delivery from China to India?

There's really not any impact, specifically for our offshore business. The impact for us would be more, how it's impacting our customers really. So, we've got a good stable group in China. It's contracted a little bit by design, and we've been focused on – focusing on growth, and then you have for a variety of reasons for some time now. But it's really not tariff related, it's more economics and geopolitical.

Great. Thanks so much.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Dan Dolev from Instinet. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. Great quarter. Thanks for taking my question. So if I think about the guidance...

Hey.

...hey, if I think about the guidance for Q3 and Q4, [Technical Difficulty] (00:26:30) at the midpoint with about 15% growth. And it also implies a dramatic slowdown in the fourth quarter, I think the high single digits. I would imagine the fourth quarter is just being conservative right, given the trends in the business?

Yeah, Dan, keep in mind that fourth quarter is traditionally seasonally down. We have had that scenario a couple of years, but we are all trying to be cautious, want to make sure that we are being conservative there.

Got it. No, it makes sense. I mean it sounds – definitely sounds beatable, but a quick follow-up is on the organic growth, do you happen to have the number, the exact organic growth number? Sorry, if I missed it.

For, I am sorry, Q2?

For Q2 correct.

What was it?

13%.

Yeah, 13%. Yeah, well, round at 13%, over 12.5%.

Got it. Excellent. Well, a great quarter. Congrats guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, Dan.

Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Colicchio from Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Yes. Nice quarter, guys. Jeff, just curious, so you'd mentioned just a few minutes ago that your target for organic growth is 10%. I think last quarter you said your target longer-term is 5% to 10%. Has something fundamentally changed to make you feel this way, or any color would be helpful?

We actually hit 10%. I am being a little [indiscernible] (00:28:09) prestigious. But no not really. I think – I guess that me saying we got to crawl before even walk. So what I said earlier response to Surinder's question is, I think we can get to 10% and sustain 10% and perhaps move through that. But it's not going to be a straight line to [indiscernible] (00:28:29) So I think the two, I think the two kind of dovetail.

And then few quarters ago, you talked about some of the consolidation at your partners, such as Adobe acquiring some of the other partners you had, and you thought you'd benefit from that. Are you still feeling the same way?

Yeah, absolutely. The more revenue you could influence for a partner, even as a result of them consolidating it, the better that relationship is, and our Adobe relationship is a result of that. I think it's never been better. We're actually pretty excited about IBM and Red Hat. Now that deal is closed, I expect IBM to be putting a lot of muscle [ph] running that. (00:29:11) And we're a player there as well. So I think these consolidations are nothing but helpful again just because it improves our influence with those partners.

And my understanding is that some of your clients are getting more comfortable with the offshore model, or you see more opportunity there, and I know that's a higher margin business for you. Any sense for when we may see that increase in the mix?

Yes, we should see it now. I think we had a nice surge last quarter. So I think it probably watered down the offshore a little bit. I still think that offshore is going to continue to grow on a volume basis faster than onshore [indiscernible] (00:29:58) touched on. Particularly in the healthcare sector five years ago, we were doing essentially no offshore, substantial amount of work is being done offshore now. And recently we talked about [ph] Pfizer (00:30:09) often about being our largest customer – one of our largest customers in that sector. And we've won the opportunity to begin doing offshore work there, which I think we'll have the opportunity to accelerate and it produces a significant volume there. So, yeah, I think that will continue.

Okay. That's it from me. Again nice quarter.

Thanks, Vincent.

And we do have a follow-up question from Surinder from Jefferies. Your line is open.

Thank you for taking the follow-up. Actually just following up on the earlier question about offshore operations and headcounts. With all the acquisitions that you guys do obviously that ratio seems to remain stable in the sense that you guys do hire offshore, but the onshore acquisitions kind of dilute that out, so the ratio doesn't change. So can you help me understand how the gross margins improve there in that sense if the ratio over the last two years appears to have been about the same. And when I look at the quarter here, we saw a fairly significant change in gross margins both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.

Yeah. And so if I follow your question, I think you hit the nail on the head, where most of the acquisitions we do don't bring offshore and there had been a few small components. So offshore growth continues to be sort of dilutive optically. And if you look at last quarter, this past quarter as example, 14% in hours growth year-on-year onshore, 16% offshore. And that's not a huge difference, but again if you think about over the last 12 months the number of acquisitions we did that didn't have offshore then you could see that offshore is still growing at a pretty clip ahead of onshore. And that what comes with that, you touched on it obviously is the gross margin expansion, offshore gross margins still running north of 50%, particularly in India, we're running probably 55% or so in India. By the way [indiscernible] (00:32:15) are in the process of building on a new facility there, and [indiscernible] (00:32:20) playing on around substantial increase in space for us to grow that facility. So that offshore capability.

The one thing I'd add Surinder is we've done a pretty good job over the last 12 months of adding additional anchor accounts in India that we're going to see some head count grow, so could see that accelerate over the next two to four quarters.

Fair enough. And that relates to a related question in terms of the head count growth in India. Is there an opportunity to perhaps accelerate that given that maybe a large competitor is undergoing some arguably structural changes?

Yes, there is. I don't know if this – frankly I think there is independent of that. To be really candid, if I think I know who you're talking about, we're probably not as interested in their employees because I think one of the challenges that that company is having is the skills are outdated. So we're more interested in hiring digital skills, offshore and probably hiring more from other competitors. That said, the beginning of your question, we absolutely are planning to continue to see offshore growth and frankly less opportunistically than we have in the past. We got a concerted effort that we're kicking off right now to create a new offering that I'm not going to dive into lot of detail around [indiscernible] (00:33:48) tend to go head to head with some of the digital offshore players.

Thank you. And then...

Sorry, just want to add that we've also made investments in infrastructure and I think we're prepared to ramp up the growth there, and you have both the people and the infrastructure to make that happen.

That's helpful. Thank you.

Yeah. I should say we have great success actually with recruiting in India. We don't have – that has never been really an issue.

That's good to hear. And then one final question, just on the capital use here, obviously strategically, you've got the M&A targets, but when we think about excess cash beyond that, how do you think about debt paydown versus share repurchases given the stock has had a really good run at this point and how you think about that trade-off?

Sure. So we issued the converts and have no other debt besides the converts of about $30 million in cash. So and we'll continue to generate cash. So we'll use that for the combination of M&A, and share repurchase obviously we look, we're opportunistic on share repurchase. We look where the stock is, it may increase or decrease based on that, but still continue to do both. And as part of our M&A strategy we tend to issue shares that have restrictions on to keep some of those sellers in place and [indiscernible] (00:35:16) we try to offset the issuance of those shares with share repurchase.

Fair enough. Or maybe put in another way, would you be willing to let cash build?

Would we be willing to let cash build, was that the question?

Yes.

Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. I think depending upon the timing of acquisitions, which as Jeff mentioned could be lumpy. We have a goal of $50 million, but we've got to find the right candidate. So you can definitely see cash grow quarter-to-quarter depending upon what action is going on, on the M&A front.

Okay. Thank you. That's it from me.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Allen Klee from Maxim Group. Allen, your line is open.

Yes, hello. Can you tell me what percent of your revenues you would estimate is related to digital transformation?

I think it's safely 70% today, maybe approaching 80% right now.

Okay. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Michelle Martin from Martin Associates (00:36:28) Your line is open.

Hi, thanks for taking my call and congratulations. I just wonder if you can give us a little flavor about your corporate culture and what's been changing there at all, and also on what turnover is like, and how challenging it is to find new people in the current environment?

Yeah. It's a great question. I like to describe the company as meritocracy, and we believe in giving people the tools they need to succeed and helping them in every way we can and the rest is up to them, and then when the results are good, we believe in giving good rewards for that, and I think that's true throughout the company. Very collegial, bunch of really smart people who like to challenge each other and do great work for our clients is how I would describe us. I wouldn't say that's changed much over the years. I think it's only improved. And we've assembled a team here in the recent period maybe two to three years, [indiscernible] (00:37:31) leadership team from an executive standpoint, and I couldn't be happier with them. But again, it's been a long sort of the same journey. We've just arrived at a place where it's very, very solid right now. So, we're very pleased with that.

In terms of attrition in general and recruiting, we've had great success with recruiting, which is a nice buzz out there about Perficient right now. I think people are interested in coming here. We have more people reaching out directly to us than we've had in recent past. And we've had good success with recruiting. Attrition, trailing 12 months is under 20%. Our goal is actually between 15% and 20%, to be honest, I think below 15%, to get on healthy as well. So we want to keep it in that range. And we managed to keep it under 20% for some time, back last year, I think it was even 17% something like that. So everything on that front right now is pretty solid.

Thanks a bunch. Appreciate it.

Thank you.

And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Davis, Chairman and CEO.

All right. Again, well, thank you all for your time today for listening to the replay. Appreciate it. And we'll look forward to speaking to you in another 90 days.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.