Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Thomas J. Hogan — President & Chief Operating Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Surinder Thind — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian Kinstlinger — Analyst, A.G.P. / Alliance Global Partners Corp.
Jonathan Y. Lee — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Puneet Jain — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Vincent Alexander Colicchio — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Kate Kronstein — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Divya S. Goyal — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the 2022 Q4 Perficient Earnings Call – Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is recorded.

I would like now to hand the conference over to our speaker today, Jeffrey Davis, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead.

Our apologies, everyone. We've been experiencing some technical difficulties with our Perficient call. So we're just going to wait 1 second here while we make sure that the call is being heard on the audio portion of this session.

Yeah. Just to add to that, this is Jeff Davis. We will restart here in just a moment. Once we confirm that our provider has everything working. It appears that we do. So I'm just going to go ahead and launch back into this. This is Jeff Davis, Perficient's Chairman and CEO. With me on the call per usual is Paul Martin, our CFO; Tom Hogan, our President and COO. I want to thank you for your time this morning. We have 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments per usual.

Before we proceed, I'm going to ask Paul to read the Safe Harbor statement. Again, we apologize for the technical difficulties.

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS and adjusted EBITDA. Our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP guidance to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations.

Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. And again, once again, apologize for the delay this morning. We certainly appreciate your time as we discuss the fourth quarter and full year performance and our continued growth and profitability. The fourth quarter capped a solid year of growth and increased profitability at Perficient with adjusted earnings per share up 14% and revenue up 8% during the period. We're of course, monitoring the macro environment and sales cycles in some cases are extended somewhat. Based on [ph] this sense (00:03:01) but there are a lot of positives of notes and we're confident that Perficient is well-positioned as it's ever been, and our business is performing well, actually, relative to some others in the space.

Services gross margin was up 30 basis points during the quarter. Our profitability remains best of breed and is the direct result of our customers' willingness to place a premium on the value we deliver combined with our strong fiscal discipline. The ongoing success we're having in our journey of transforming Perficient into a truly unique and unparalleled global force continues. We're delivering more work offshore than ever before and commanding higher rates for that work than ever before. Rates, in fact, are materially higher than many of our competitors, by the way, again reflecting the superiority of our fully integrated model and talent. And our culture and truly integrated model is helping us retain that global talent as well. Our attrition during the quarter was well in line with our targets.

Overall, 2022 was a remarkably successful year in our global transformation. We realized 68% growth in our total offshore revenue with organic accounting for half of that total at 34%. Tom will speak to bookings specifically in a minute, but large deal win volume was again stronger in the quarter up meaningfully sequentially and year-over-year.

The pipeline remained strong and while we do not forecast deals not yet closed, we remain in pursuit of several that if one can materially change the trajectory of the year. As I mentioned earlier, some clients are taking more time with decisions but we're confident demand for our services will remain robust and we're poised for another year of solid growth.

In fact, although we saw a modest expansion of sales cycle during the quarter, we're actually seeing more urgency in terms of project timelines on large deals, meaning those deals are more compressed than they have been historically, that there will actually be a benefit certainly in the near-term. Customers are more concerned with different competition than ever before and more ambitious than ever before in terms of moving quickly once commitments have been made.

As we mentioned on last quarter's call, whether our clients are investing in growth or seeking to reduce cost by leveraging efficiency, Perficient is the answer. And a reminder on our strategy, we expect growth everywhere. We continue to believe our non-US presence will scale disproportionately fast, and that this mix shifts in the near term will help margins but also pose a modest headwind to our overall top line growth.

However, as we move forward, our long term – toward our long-term goal of a 50/50 revenue mix, that is half of our revenue delivered domestically and half delivered globally, we'll reach an inflection point where the headwind becomes a tailwind and an accelerant to revenue growth.

With that, I'll turn things over to Paul.

Thanks, Jeff. Services revenues, excluding reimbursed expenses, were $228.8 million in the fourth quarter, a 9% increase over the prior year, and year-over-year organic services growth was 6%. Gross margin percentage increased 60 basis points to 39.4% in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year. And services gross margin, including reimbursed expenses and stock compensation, was 40.8% in the fourth quarter, compared to 40.5% in the prior year. SG&A expense was $43.7 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $41.7 million in the prior year. SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues decreased to 18.8% from 19.4% in the prior year.

Adjusted EBITDA was $54.3 million, or 23.4% of revenues in the fourth quarter, compared to $47.7 million. or 22.2% of revenues in the prior year. Amortization expense was $6.5 million in the fourth quarter, compared to $5.8 million in the prior year. The increase in amortization expense was primarily due to the addition of additional intangibles from our two acquisitions of 2022.

Net interest expense for the fourth quarter decreased to $0.8 million from $3.9 million in the prior year, primarily as a result of adopting the new accounting standard for convertible debt in the first quarter. Our effective tax rate was 28% in the fourth quarter, compared to [ph] 476.5% (00:07:07) in the prior year. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the convertible debt transactions impact on the prior year.

Net income increased to $26.5 million for the fourth quarter, from $4.5 million in the prior year, primarily due to the loss from extinguishment of debt of $28.7 million in the prior year and improved operating performance.

Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.74 a share for the fourth quarter from $0.13 in the prior year. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $1.14 or 14% for the fourth quarter from $1 in the prior year. You can see the press release for a full reconciliation to GAAP earnings.

I'll now turn to the full year results. Services revenue, excluding reimbursed expenses, were $893.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a 19% increase over the prior year. Year-over-year organic services growth was 13%. Gross margin percentage for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 50 basis points to 38.9% compared to the prior year.

Services gross margin, excluding reimbursed expenses and stock compensation for the year ended December 31, 2022 was 40.2%, compared to 40% in the prior year. SG&A expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $171.1 million, compared to $152.4 million in the prior year. SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues decreased to 18.9% from 20% in the prior year.

Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $205.8 million, or 22.7% of revenues, compared to $162.9 million, or 21.4% of revenues in the prior year. The year ended December 31, 2022 included amortization of $24.5 million, compared to $23.5 million in the prior year.

Net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased to $3.2 million from $14.1 million in the prior year, again primarily as a result of adopting the new accounting standard for convertible debt at the beginning of the year.

Our effective tax rate was 25.9% for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 16.6% in the prior year. The increase in the effective rate was primarily due to a decrease in stock compensation deductions and the decrease in research credit benefit compared to the prior year.

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $104.4 million, compared to $52.1 million in the prior year, primarily as a result of higher revenues, lower cost as a percent of revenues, lower interest expense, and the loss from extinguishment of debt of $29 million that was included in the prior year.

Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $2.90 for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared with $1.50 in the prior year. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $4.28 for 2022 from $3.50 in the prior year. Our ending global head count as of December 31, 2022 were 6,321, including 12,944 global consultants and 377 subcontractors. Ending SG&A head count was 949.

Our outstanding debt net of deferred issuance costs as of December 31, 2022 was $394.6 million. In addition, we have $30.1 million in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2022, and $199.8 million of unused borrowing capacity on our current facility. Our balance sheet continues to leave us very well positioned, to continue to execute against our strategic plan.

I'll turn now the call over to Tom Hogan for a little more commentary. Tom?

Thank you, Paul, and good morning, everybody. We booked 56 deals, greater than $1 million during the fourth quarter of 2022, which compares to 43 in the fourth quarter of 2021 and 37 in the third quarter of 2022. Again, that's 56 deals greater than a $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2022 compared to 43 in the fourth quarter of 2021 and 37 in the third quarter of 2022.

We're still winning big deals and we won more of them than ever before in Q4. Our net pipeline, weighted and unweighted, [ph] reigns (00:11:21) very strong. A couple of recent wins. The highlight, we're working with a multi-national pharmaceutical corporation on a nearly $8 million – excuse me 8-figure engagement to improve their patient data flow.

Our unified team of global experts, our delivery and custom built clinical data reviewing cleaning environment that provides an accurate real time view of clinical studies, which allows the enterprise to holistically monitor progress and drive critical decision making. We also expanded our partnership with a leading automotive manufacturer, supporting the global CRM rollout for their commercial focused vehicle services and distribution business. As part of the engagement, our team of architects will migrate to manufacturers legacy platform and develop a global roll out roadmap that includes their existing commercial and retail expenses.

We had also recently launched a new employee website for the same leading auto manufacturer. Our global team worked with the automaker to deliver a next generation employee experience featuring advanced personalization options, threaded comments and updated search function with more features planned in the coming months. The new site now serves more than 180,000 employees, including retirees, and receives more than 1 million visits per meeting. We continue to remain well-diversified from a customer, industry and platform perspective. Healthcare and financial &A services led the way from a revenue and bookings perspective. We're particularly excited about the accelerating momentum that we have in the financial services industry, where our revenue has grown materially in recent years.

Jeff mentioned some lengthening in sales cycles and the macro uncertainty. But let's be clear, digital transformation is going nowhere. The work we're delivering for our clients is in many cases imperative, mission critical and core to their competitive success.

And with that, I'll turn the call back over to Jeff to discuss first quarter and 2023 full year outlook.

Thanks, Tom. All right. Perficient expects its first quarter, 2023 revenue to be in the range of $227 million to $233 million. First quarter GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.67 to $0.73. First quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of a $1.01 to a $1.06. Perficient expects its full year 2023 revenue to be in the range of $945 million to $985 million. 2023 GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $3.24 to $3.40 and 2023 adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $4.60 to $4.75.

And with that, operator, we can open up the call for questions.

Thank you. At this time, we will conduct a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] All right. Our first question comes from the line of Surinder Thind from Jefferies. Go ahead Surinder.

Thank you. I'd like to start with a high level question of kind of where demand sits at this point in the client decision making process. If we were to rewind maybe a year ago, the thought was that there was perhaps a new elevated level of demand across the industry. So not just for yourselves, but more broadly, including your peers.

Fast forward to today it seems like that wasn't quite the case, right? There's obviously long term demand is still intact, but clients are making more short term decisions. So can you help us understand that disconnect or what you're seeing at clients at this point and their willingness to push off projects and if there is a further deterioration should we expect, continued weakness, I guess, for the foreseeable future?

Yeah, it's a good question. I'll start and ask Tom to add some color as he is the expert. So obviously yeah, the year didn't admit the way it started to your point. I think that from what we've seen, the pipeline as well as recent bookings even in this year so far is that that seems to be moving behind us. In other words, things seem to be improving now from where they were say six months ago in terms of again bookings and pipeline. I think there is a number of contributing factors to that.

Certainly, again, we were overly optimistic on the macro environment, and I do think that sentiment shifted, but I had a no crystal ball. But it seems to be improving. And as for position as a standalone, as Tom mentioned and I alluded to on the call, we actually have quite a number of large new opportunities and some existing accounts and maybe more importantly add new accounts and have the potential to be very, very meaningful for us even within the year. So, I think the general environment while it did sort of stall or slow, seems to be improving. Now no crystal ball, but I think there is a reason for optimism. Tom?

I agree. And I think also as we moved to larger deals, that also compounds [indiscernible] (00:17:00), the market is still very rich with opportunity. There is definitely some caution in buying behavior. However, I'll also say is the deal size is larger. So there is definitely a level of stringency that executives are going through that historically maybe they didn't have to go through. And as we continue to see larger deal sizes as representative of our Q4 bookings, that have a little bit of a headwind for us specifically, not necessarily in the industry.

That's helpful. And then as we kind of look at the year ahead, two related questions. One is it sounds like the project timelines themselves are compressing. So [indiscernible] (00:17:49) understood that comment correctly that clients are still planning on for work, but they want that amount of work done to be quicker. So that would suggest like cost take-out projects or is that the focus materially shifted in some of the projects that you're working on? And then in terms of just the guide itself, is the vast majority of the growth, it sounds like it's offshore, which it has been in the past or more recently as well. What does your outlook for onshore or US growth look like?

Yeah, good question. So, yes, you heard that correctly in terms of the large deals, specifically the large deals and those compressed timelines. I would say the majority of our work is actually not based on cost reduction, it's based more on new products and services and time to market is as critical as ever. So I think that's what's driving a lot of that.

Some of that also is they're catching up now, right? So where they – some of these deals I'm talking about are from clients who were in that slow sales cycle. But then once they got through that, made that commitment there, like, okay, we're behind now, so what can we do to accelerate this, right? So I think the majority of it is coming from that primarily. And what was the other question?

Growth rates onshore.

Growth rates for sure are going to be greater offshore, just like they have been. Onshore, where – our overall guide is pretty conservative as you can see. So that would include or imply flat to slightly up US or onshore-based resources. And a lot of that growth coming, as you pointed out, from offshore.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon from Needham. Go ahead.

Thank you, Jeff and Paul. Just wanted to first talk about the linearity of the year. So, your guidance basically reflects, I think, flat to slightly down revenue sequentially based on the guidance. How should we expect the year to build? Are you looking at maybe more a first half rebound? Or should we expect a more linear trajectory over the course of 2023?

Yeah. I think it's going to be a little bit heavier in the second half for sure. So I think you're right on the Q1 guide, which, by the way, seems like pretty common in the industry for the year. Everybody sort of sees a stronger back half. And I think we see the same thing, and I would underscore that with my comments earlier, on the pipeline [indiscernible] (00:20:32) the bookings, I think, sort of troughed out, if you will, in Q3. And we're experiencing that from a revenue standpoint basically now. [indiscernible]

(20:43) correlation factor between free bookings and revenue for us. And it's not that high, because it tends to be somewhat lumpy, but the highest correlation's about a five-month rolling average. So literally, if you look five months out from a kind of a weaker Q3 bookings, then you're seeing that that now. Bookings were stronger in the fourth quarter and they're starting stronger in the first quarter. So again, we would expect to see the benefit of that more towards the latter part of Q2 or the beginning of the second half.

That's helpful. And then just more in terms of housekeeping items, I wanted to ask you on the offshore. In terms of the drag on the growth, what have you built in to your expectations? And on the flip side, I'm assuming it's going to help margins. So maybe could you just quantify the benefit on margins and the drag on revenue based on your guidance?

Yeah. It's probably 3% or 4%. It's sort of hard to – 3 or 4 points, it's sort of hard to predict, but it is a 3.5 to 1 ratio. So, you can sort of back into it from the guidance that we put out there based on offshore – historic offshore and near-shore growth. This is what I would tell you on that. And the...

From a margin perspective, Mayank, obviously there's a lot of things going on with wages as well. And we've modeled just modest gross margin improvement and that's another one where hopefully as the demand picks up, that that could prove to be conservative.

Keep in mind that's our strategy. The whole point of endeavoring organically and through M&A and offshore and near shore is to bring our rates down to accelerate ultimately top line growth and be more competitive with the – against the digital transformation firms that we run into. So, we'll be careful about leveraging all that as margin and actually putting a lot of it into more attractive, more competitive rates.

All right. Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Alliance Global Partners. Go ahead, Brian.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Jeff, you mentioned a few large deals that if you win could significantly change the revenue trajectory of the company, is that captured in the high end of revenue guidance or is this more a 2024 driver given long sales cycles and therefore maybe not contemplated in this year's guidance?

It's not comfortable, because as we mentioned earlier, we really are very cautious about trying to bake anything that's not yet booked. But I would say this is rare, but if all of those deals close, I think that would represent upside to the guidance for the year. Again, that's probably an unlikely event, but it's possible. But certainly, even without that, I think you're spot on that it's going to be more of an indicator and a boost to certainly latter part of this year then also 2024.

Great. And then healthcare is lower year-over-year and sequentially. You've talked about stronger demand in the second half of 2023. And I think you've also – at the second half of the year experienced a large program winding down. So can you share with us for this vertical, are there any indicators of stronger demand trends in healthcare?

Yeah. We're seeing – at least for us, we're seeing certainly positive there, stronger – I don't know that the demand is that much stronger, but we have finally shed that account that we've been talking about. So that account represented over $30 million of revenue in 2021 and was still over $10 million last year. It's essentially zero now. So we've lapped that. And I think we'll see a growth improvement then in healthcare. I think that was the biggest drag in healthcare for us.

Thank you.

At the same time, I was going to say financial services is growing tremendously fast, which, of course, has a dilutive effect as a percent of revenue on healthcare.

Thank you. Our next question comes on line of Jonathan Lee from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open, Jonathan.

Hey. Thanks for taking our questions, guys. Wanted to talk through engagement type of pricings given the macro. There have there been any notable changes to that in the quarter just given what we're hearing across the macro environment or perhaps shifting of delivery?

I'm sorry, you're about the pricing?

Yeah. Like, where are you seeing, if any, notable changes to engagement type or pricing in the quarter, given some of the macro related concerns?

Other than as we mentioned some actual compression, which is a positive, pricing has been solid and we've actually managed to move ABR up. And again, as I mentioned before, we want to be cautious about that because the whole point of the offshore is to be as competitive as we can on pricing. So – and we've good pricing power. And I think, as I mentioned in the script, the – and I think Tom alluded to or mentioned as well, that speaks, I think, quite a lot to the value of the clients place on our services.

That said, we need to be doing – we've got the same skills, same capability, same strength and experience offshore that we do onshore. And we need to be leveraging that more and more, and we are, and that's where you're seeing the growth differential.

Got it. And on the hiring front, can you provide an update on what you're seeing in the hiring market across your geographies, where you're seeing it easier to hire versus tougher to hire?

I'm going to let Tom – I'll just say something real quickly about attrition and I'll let Tom take the recruiting question [indiscernible] (00:26:46) talent acquisition. But, we mentioned earlier that the attrition rates were well within our range. So, the Great Resignation seems to move behind us. So that obviously bodes well for talent acquisition. But I'm going let Tom comment more specifically on that.

Yeah. The talent we're looking for [indiscernible] (00:27:07) a word that was used, but we definitely have a multi-tenant approach to the way in which we bring talent to the organization. We've robust university hiring programs globally, great success in India and Latin America as well as the United States. We're constantly making sure we have the right value proposition for our team.

Quite honestly, great talent wants to work with great talent. So our competitive advantage of environments, project work and the way in which we drive culture here, we haven't seen any challenges in hiring individuals. And with a multi-tenant approach and a multi-geography approach, there's not one specific area where it's "easier" to find talent. Across the board, we compete quite nicely against the industry peers for talent.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Puneet Jain from JPMorgan.

Hey. Thanks for taking my question. I'd like to ask about what does like the EPS guidance imply for – assume for EBITDA margins this year. And what do you expect for utilization and pricing throughout this year?

So EPS is – the guidance for EPS is – as it relates to margins would be potentially a modest increase to EBITDA. As we've discussed earlier, we're looking to keep gross margins flat not down, but not up materially either, so that we can maintain that competitive pricing. But I do think that adjusted EBITDA, as an example, we'll have some expansion this year, although I think it will be modest as we've guided, so a little bit lower than normal growth.

So until we get back to that higher growth level, I think adjusted earnings or adjusted EBITDA will be modest in terms of expansion, but again, not negative, but expecting modest expansion. And then utilization will maintain and has consistently maintained over the average of the year at about 80%. So we're – that's still our goal and we'll be driving that this year. And again, historically, over the last at least three or four years, we've had great success with that. We expect more of the same.

And, Puneet, with respect to bill rates, etcetera, we'll look – obviously there's wage inflation as we talked about that we're looking to notionally offset those having the global delivery capability in our portfolio is allowing us to manage where the delivery is done to offset wage increases with rate increases.

Right, right. And is there a way to estimate the benefit from higher offshore mix, like the deals or the new business that's coming your way, something that you wouldn't be eligible to compete for a few years ago? So is there a way to estimate like how much that increased offshore mix is helping drive new wins for you?

Yeah, absolutely. Including an existing accounts and existing relationships, we've got a number of large great long-term relationships that, just a few years ago, as you point out, we're already doing a lot of offshore work or near-shore work that we really couldn't pursue because we didn't have the capacity or even the capability. Now that we do, we're actually taking quite a lot of share.

So a lot of the growth that we're enjoying from offshore and near-shore is not only new relationships, new clients, which almost always involve some level of offshore right out of the gate, right at the beginning, but also actually in existing accounts, relationships that we've had 10, 15 years, we've actually been able to take share away from some of the larger offshore competitors.

And Puneet, one other – just to give you some perspective, we've doubled the percentage of revenues done offshore in the last two years, and as Jeff said, we're on a journey to 50-plus-percent.

Operator?

All right. Our next call comes from the line of Vincent Colicchio from Barrington Research. Go ahead, Vincent.

Yes. Jeff, are there any vendor or solution categories that have significantly weakened since last quarter?

I wouldn't say that exactly that there is no standout. I think it's – we saw a kind of slowdown across the board, but our revenue tends not to be – if each kind of quarter goes on, we're less and less coupled to specific technology. Certainly, there's a lot of disruption on the software side, but we pivoted around that. But I wouldn't say, over the last six months or so, there's been a major shift with any particular technology or vendor.

Okay. Thanks. One more for me. Is client consolidation an issue currently, given the pressures these companies are under? And if so, is it more of an opportunity or threat for you?

It's proven to be an opportunity. That auto manufacturer that Tom gave a little vignette on in the prepared statements, long-time client. But we're now one of only six Tier 1 global suppliers with them. And that story is repeated over and over and over. So even when there is sort of a reconciliation or rationalization, we almost always emerged as a key player.

Thank you. Our next line (sic) [question] (00:33:16) comes from the line of Kate Kronstein from William Blair. Go ahead, Kate.

Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking my question. This is Kate Kronstein on for Maggie Nolan. My first question I wanted to touch on was can you guys provide the exact percent of revenue right now that is offshore-based? And then when do you expect you will be able to reach that 50/50 revenue mix that you touched on at the beginning of the call?

So the – I'll answer with the second part of that, and then Paul can address the first part. But our goal would be about three years on that 50/50. So that's what we're working hard towards. I don't know if that's going to be aggressive or not, but if we maintain the pace of growth that we have, I think that's very doable.

And one thing I want to point out is that we certainly – I do think 50/50 is a really key pivot point for the business. But of course, the whole thesis is linear, right? So as we work towards that 50/50, the headwind that offshore represents becomes less and less along the way. So it's not a stair step function, but we do think that's going to be the critical point where things really shift to a tailwind and then accelerate.

Yeah. And, Kate, with respect to the percentage of revenues, as I said [indiscernible] (00:34:41) a little bit before, it was about 13% in the fourth quarter of 2020, and it's about double that today, and I think will continue to accelerate into 2023.

Okay. Great. That's all very helpful. Thank you. And then one final question from me, within the 56 deals that are greater than $1 million, are most of these short term deals? Are these deals that have the potential to grow in a longer term transformational deals?

Definitely have the ability to continue to grow. These guys – as Jeff mentioned, their compression, as far as the length of the backlog, it is multiple phases within this work, so it should continue to build upon itself in the coming quarters.

Okay. Great. Thank you all.

Thank you.

Perfect. And our last – our next question comes from Divya Goyal from Scotiabank.

Good morning, everyone. Jeff, I had a quick question on the broader technological aspect of the company. So given the competition out there, the pace at which technology is changing, what are some of the things that Perficient is doing in order to stay on top of the pace, kind of the competition, have more deal wins? And then how is your M&A strategy aligned with this?

I'll take it at a high level. We've got a group of strategists that not only help clients, but also Tom and I rely on and of course, the whole management team, to help us navigate that and pivot around what we think are going to be good opportunities for us. Not [ph] all two (00:36:31) new technology at least early on, is necessarily a big services opportunity because not everybody adopts to it right away. But we keep a close eye on that. We've got a team that focuses specifically on that.

And I'm going to let Tom add – I'll mention the M&A as well, I'm sorry. We do have M&A in the pipeline. We consciously kind of put that on hold really for the fourth quarter. We closed one deal in the fourth quarter, as you know. And we kind of slowed things down a little bit, we want to see what the macro environment was like. And also wanted to give the valuations a chance to catch up with the public markets because we weren't seeing that then. Things do seem to be improving now and so we're going to be getting back in the game likely in the second quarter.

Yeah. To take on that a little bit. So our team, globally, has a bunch of explorers around technology, really looking at the next thing. So as an example, gendered AI. So we have interest groups around the world, not necessarily just within our strategy team, although our strategy team is looking at the next greatest technologies to come, we actually then put together interest groups around the world, individuals from Latin America, India, Serbia, China, the United States, working together collectively on newer technologies around use cases, how clients can utilize them.

You're probably familiar with ChatGPT which is a gendered AI tool. We have clients working with us regarding how can they leverage technology, not just for us to play with, but for them to actually gain through ROI. And we do that with our collective 7,000-plus consultants around the world. So we have specific interest groups around that domain and technologies that we will able to talk a little bit more in the future. But a very big part of our culture is to look at those technologies and see how they can be of value to our customers.

That's great color. Looking forward to what's coming next.

Thank you.

Wonderful. I would like now to turn it back over to Jeff Davis for closing remarks.

All right. Well, thank you all for your time and thank you for your patience and sticking around as we work through some of the technical issues at the onset of the call, but thank you and look forward to seeing you again here in about 60 days.