Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Chairman, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Frank C. Atkins — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Brian Kinstlinger — Analyst, Alliance Global Partners
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q3 2018 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Chairman and CEO, Jeff Davis.

Good morning. This is Jeff. Thank you all for your time this morning. With me on the call, as usual, is Paul Martin, our CFO. As typical, we will have 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments, after which we will open up the call for questions. Paul, would you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements, and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We've also posted a slide deck which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Once again, good morning, and thank you for joining. We're excited to share our third quarter results and update with you our expectations for the remainder of the year. There's really a lot going on right now in the market, all of it very positive for Perficient, we're going to discuss some of that.

Services revenue was up 5% versus a year ago and you may recall our third and fourth quarters last year were quite strong. So that's growth over a tough comparison. Services revenue for the year through the end of Q3 is now up 11%. Most exciting about our Q3 was the profitability we were able to deliver, improved utilization and strong fiscal discipline drove increased services gross margin and adjusted EPS of $0.41, which is at the very top end of our guidance. [indiscernible]

(00:02:32) transpired during the quarter where we also grew by acquisition, we're recognized by several partners with high profile awards and saw market developments that bode well for our business, and all of that is continuing beyond Q3 and into Q4 and beyond.

During the quarter, we added to our digital capabilities with the acquisition of Stone Temple Consulting, a highly regarded and award-winning digital consultancy focused on Search Engine Optimization and content marketing services. And as I'm sure you also saw earlier this week, we announced the acquisition of Elixiter, a marketing automation firm that helps us continue to enhance the capabilities we're able to bring to CMOs and marketing organizations who are attached with driving digital transformation and improving the customer experience.

Both of these groups will play an important role as we continue to deliver the end-to-end digital experience solutions our clients know they must deliver to their customers. Interestingly enough, in the midst of our pursuit of Elixiter, a firm we liked specifically because of its expertise in the Marketo stack, Adobe announced its intention to acquire Marketo.

We've talked for several quarters about the success we've had growing a deep partnership and strong business around the Adobe platform and how excited we were when they acquired Magento, another key partner of ours. And now as we bring Elixiter into our portfolio, Adobe looks to do the same with Marketo.

In recent weeks, partners like Red Hat, Sitecore and Pivotal have recognized Perficient with awards. And similar to the Adobe Magento and Adobe Marketo deals, we were very excited earlier this week to learn of IBM's intended acquisition of Red Hat. When two of our key partners join forces, it creates meaningful opportunity and momentum for us and we expect great things going forward as IBM and Red Hat combine.

In addition to the awards received, Perficient continues to forge relationships with industry analysts, influencing opinion, and gaining visibility. This quarter Forrester Research named Perficient one of the 11 providers that matter most in a report covering digital process automation. Specifically within the report, Forrester called out our ability to maintain long-term relationships with prominent clients and referred to us as a trusted partner.

Normalized bookings during the quarter were great, up double digits, one of the strongest performances I can recall and certainly the strongest in the last couple of years. That should help us close the year solidly and get 2019 off to a great start.

So on top of all of that, we completed a convertible debt offering during the quarter, where we raised more than $140 million, which was then used to pay-off our existing credit facility and execute a large buyback, leaving us with $45 million cash on the balance sheet and full access to the original $125 million credit facility. That coupled with strong cash flow we're generating each quarter leaves us very well-positioned to grow the company and execute on our strategic plans for years to come.

So with that, I'm going to turn the call back over to Paul to cover the financial results before I touch on a few additional items of note and our outlook for the fourth quarter and updated guidance for the full year. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Services revenues were $122.9 million for the third quarter of 2018, a 5% increase compared to the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2018 excluding stock compensation, and reimbursable expenses increased 40 basis points to 37.8%.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $26.7 million in the third quarter of 2018 from $24.7 million in the comparable prior year period. SG&A expense excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue increased to 21.5% from 20% in the third quarter, primarily due to the change of recognition of software and hardware revenues on a net versus gross basis.

EBITDAS for the third quarter of 2018 was $19.5 million or 15.8% of revenues compared to $19.2 million or 15.5% of revenues in the third quarter of 2017. Third quarter included amortization of $4 million compared to $3.9 million in the prior year period.

During the third quarter of 2018, we recorded expense of $0.7 million to adjust to fair value of contingent consideration liability primarily related to our Southport acquisition as a result of favorable performance compared to original assets.

Interest expense of $0.8 million increased from $0.4 million primarily as a result of cash interest and non-cash amortization of debt issuance, discounts, and issuance costs related to the convertible debt issued in September.

Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2018 was 25.3% compared to 33.3% for the third quarter of 2017. The lower effective rate from the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the lowering of the U.S. tax rate from 31% to 21%.

Net income decreased 10% to $6.3 million for the third quarter of 2018 from $7 million in the third quarter of 2017. Diluted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.19 for the third quarter of 2018 from $0.21 in the third quarter of 2017. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.41 for the third quarter of 2018 from $0.34 in the third quarter of 2017. You can see the press release for a full reconciliation of – to GAAP earnings.

And as a reminder, adjusted EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensations, transaction costs, amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs, fair value of adjustment contingent consideration and the impact of infrequent or unusual transactions, net of taxes, divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for the period.

I'll now turn to the nine-month results. Services revenues were $364 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of 11% over the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses decreased [ph] approximately (00:08:33) to 36.8% from 37% in the comparable prior year period.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $78.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $72 million in the comparable prior year period. SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenues increased to 21.4% from 20.5%, primarily due to the change in recognition of software and hardware revenues on a net versus a gross basis.

EBITDAS for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $54.8 million or 15% of revenues, compared to $50.1 million or 14.3% of revenues in the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The nine months ended September 30, 2018 included amortization of $12 million compared to $11.1 million in the prior year comparable period.

During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we've reported expense of $1.8 million to adjust fair value for our contingent consideration liabilities primarily related to our Clarity and Southport acquisitions as a result of favorable performance compared to original estimates.

Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 25% compared to 46.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. The lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the lowering in the U.S. tax rate.

Net income increased 41% to $17.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $12.1 million in the comparable period. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.50 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $0.36 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $1.13 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $0.86 in the comparable period.

Our ending global head count in at September 30, 2018 was 2,676, which included 2,448 billable colleagues and 228 subcontractors, and the SG&A head count at September 30, 2018 was 458.

As Jeff mentioned, our convertible debt issuance during the quarter increased our outstanding debt net of unamortized debt [indiscernible] (00:10:48) $119 million compared to $55 million at year end. We also ended the third quarter with $44.9 million in cash and cash equivalents and our balance sheet continues to leave us very well-positioned to execute against our strategic plan. Our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 77 days for the third quarter of 2018 compared to 79 days in the comparable prior year period.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff for a little more commentary behind the metrics. Jeff?

Well, thanks, Paul. We sold 43 deals north of $500,000 during the quarter. That compares to 59 in the second quarter of this year and 32 in the third quarter of 2017, so a nice growth in large deal volume versus the prior year. And as I mentioned earlier, bookings were up substantially year-over-year. As I said, there were a number of very large deals embedded within those statistics.

During the quarter, the health sciences, financial services, retail and consumer goods, and manufacturing verticals combined to represent 66% of revenue, with healthcare at 30%, financial services at 14%, retail and consumer goods at 12%; and manufacturing at 10%.

More and more the market is realizing, we have the strength and scale to deliver the same work the majors do, but at higher quality, more efficiently and with quicker time to value. We are as good as and most of the time better than the biggest names and our approach is not only more thoughtful and collaborative, but more comprehensive.

And finally, I'd be remiss if I did not mention the news included in our release regarding the retirement of Chief Operating Officer, Kathy Henely. All of Perficient owes Kathy tremendous thanks for contributions over the course of nearly two decades. She's been dedicated leader and executive partner in helping us build this business. One of the main legacy she leaves in her assistance in structuring and building on very deep and experienced, extended leadership team. Hence, we're fortunate and excited to announce the promotion of Vice President, Tom Hogan into the role of COO.

Tom has been a strong leader for more than a decade in Perficient. He has a great understanding of the business with strong sales background and a solid operational acumen. He is going to be an excellent COO. So, again, many thanks to Kathy and congratulations to Tom.

It was a great third quarter. We have good moment carrying into Q4 and we're very optimistic about the potential for 2019.

We're excited to issue our fourth quarter guidance and raise our full-year earnings estimate. Perficient expects fourth quarter 2018 revenue to be in the range of $125 million to $131 million. Fourth quarter GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.18. Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.39 of $0.42.

Perficient is narrowing its previously provided full-year 2018 revenue guidance to $492 million to $498 million, adjusting its 2018 GAAP earnings per share guidance range to $0.66 to $0.69 and raising its 2018 adjusted earnings per share range to $1.52 to $1.55.

With that, operator, can we open up the call for questions, please?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Mayank Tandon with Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, Jeff and Paul. Few questions on the revenue line. I think looking at 3Q, it's maybe at the lower end of expectations and also for 4Q guidance, then you tighten the revenue range a touch lower for the full year. Could you comment on what may have been the factor behind that and maybe in the context of what you're seeing in terms of the key verticals like healthcare, retail and maybe financial services as well?

Yeah, absolutely. First, let me point out that we're about $600,000 below the midpoint of our guidance. So, really about a 0.5% off of the midpoint of our guidance. But, yeah, it's – I would say all-in-all the macro environment is still strong. We see a good – we have a very good pipeline. We have great bookings. That's more the carryover of the cancellations that we talked about in the second quarter, totaling, I want to say about $15 million impact to the year. So, we had to work to come up from under that, probably didn't get quite as far along as we would have liked to in Q3, but again pretty close to our guidance.

Jeff, could you provide some color in terms of what you're seeing on the key vertical front? And I also wanted to get your thoughts around your expectations for margins. This year looks like a good year in terms of margin performance. Maybe if you could talk about expectations longer term as you go into 2019, maybe not get into specifics, but just in terms of the trend on the margin line as well along with some of the details around the vertical exposure in revenue, that would be helpful. Thank you.

Yeah, absolutely. So these four verticals I mentioned in the script were strong performers in the quarter. From a bookings standpoint, healthcare continues to be head and shoulders above the rest. I want to say healthcare represented almost half of our bookings in the quarter. So, continued strength there, but again, financial services holding its own, probably not growing as fast as some others.

But retail, automotive performing very well, manufacturing performing well for us. We've got some key accounts there. So all in all, like I said, I would say we're seeing improvement or at least solid performance and strength pretty much across the board. The one exception might be financial services for us. But again, it's holding its own and the rest seem to be performing well, particularly from a bookings standpoint. So macro to us looks good.

In terms of trends on margins, we were planning and I have talked about this before, we had a goal of 2% to 3% rate increases this year. We've not been able to get there. I do think they're trending up now, although it's early to tell here in these most recent bookings, but we believe that we're seeing that trend improve.

And I expect to continue to see good margin expansion or solid margin expansion, probably have at least 100 basis points next year and to your point, we won't be putting anything out on that specifically for a while, but that certainly would be my goal. I'd still like to see us getting to 40% gross margin, net of stock comp on services. And I think we hit 38%, 37.8% this quarter, so we're close. And like I said, I'd like to see us move more towards that next year with at least a 100 basis point improvement.

That's helpful. And just finally on organic growth, I think when you came into this year, I think the target was high-single digits. What is the goal today based on what you've seen so far in the nine months, the organic growth for the year? That's it for me. Thank you.

I think we're going to – yeah, I think we're going to end up – thanks, Mayank, I think we're going to end up in the 2% to 3% range. At the higher end of our guidance, I think we'd be at 3% and we feel pretty comfortable with this guidance. I think there's eventually some upside there. So around 3%. And then I think if you went back and added back those cancellations, unfortunately, that's not how the world works, but that would put us at about 6%. So, it'd still be a little below again where we thought we could be getting in the year, I think combination of the cancellations along with not being able to push ABRs strictly as we hoped combine to kind of keep it in that range.

One thing I should note though is offshore continues to grow outpacing our onshore business. So, build hours are a one or two point differential to the positive of the organic revenue growth. So 3% organic revenue, 4% or 5% build hours and again, the [ph] diff (00:19:24) between that in the high-single digits really is those cancellations.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Frank Atkins with SunTrust. Your line is open.

Thanks for taking my questions. Wanted to ask a little bit more around the impact of IBM and Red Hat. What client feedback have you gotten so far and can you kind of walk through why this is a positive and what typically happens in these situations?

Yeah, absolutely. I can't say what the client feedback is yet. It's just simply too early. I haven't had any chance to catch up with our field folks. Although, I expect it will be positive from my perspective. I think it was a pricy deal for IBM, but I think it really enhances their portfolio. So, if you're an [ph] IBM half (00:20:17), I think you'd be happy with that. And even from a Red Hat [ph] shop (00:20:21) perspective, I think you'd be happy with the stability and the broader portfolio now available to them.

We've been through a number of acquisitions with IBM over the years, with our longstanding partnership. And still I would say it was the largest – from a platform standpoint, one of the largest revenue generators in the business, although that's obviously been changing as others have grown faster, it's become relatively smaller, but it's still large.

We have a very, very good relationship with IBM. Anytime they do an acquisition, one this large is unusual, but anytime they do an acquisition, we're one of the partners that may enable first. And in this case, they don't need to enable us, because we already have a really strong relationship with Red Hat. So, for us, it's two great partnerships joining forces. We know and are thought highly of by everybody on both sides. And if that both sides have already reached out and expressed an interest in us being a key partner [indiscernible] (00:21:21) together out in the field.

So, we're excited about that. I think if nothing else, like I said, it should drive a lot of leads our way. I'm confident it will from both sides of that. Like I said, we know all the salespeople, have a great relationship with them.

Okay, great. That's helpful. Just a quick numbers question, could I get organic revenue in the quarter, just the percentage?

That was down roughly 0.5% in the quarter.

Okay. And then I've noticed that the – in the revenue by platform, the other technology segment increased a little bit and it's now a significant part of the base in terms of the technologies. Could you give us some examples or some granular color on what's included in that other technologies by platform?

Yeah, absolutely. You've heard us talk about Pivotal throughout the year. So, Pivotal falls in there, Red Hat as I just mentioned falls in there, Sitecore is another meaningful or material component of that. And [indiscernible] (00:22:36) those continue to grow that we'll be breaking that back out again. But right now, they are rising to the threshold of a separate breakout, couple of others that are in there by the way are Magento and MicroStrategy. And I think all of those are hovering around sort of $15 million-or-so level and like I said, we'll probably break them out pretty quick.

Okay. And then what do you think it will take to drive ABR improvement going forward. It's been a little bit of a challenge this year and what are the levers that you think you can pull to drive that higher in that kind of 2% to 3% goal range?

We're certainly providing additional incentives focused on that for both our sales folks and for our delivery folks, as well as just simply awareness. But one of the things that is kind of a good and bad in that and I didn't touch on earlier is that as we talked about those bookings that we've enjoyed, the reality is some of those are very, very large multi-year deals. And then those deals [indiscernible] (00:23:46) less pricing power. And so that makes it little difficult to raise ABR and also we get these long-term relationships, makes it a little bit difficult to raise rates along the way.

However, what we've done instead is drive utilization up and utilization is up year-over-year by about a point or so, which obviously is really on profit. So that offset it. And actually our average base salary is also down 1% year-over-year. So we've managed – the team has done – the management team has done an excellent job of effectively managing that debt consulting pyramid and introducing us particularly on these larger engagements, more people at the base of the pyramid and keeping the top of the pyramid from getting too far ahead of the rest.

So, I mean that result of that is in spite of significant raise pull this year in the 3% or 4% range, average salary is actually down 1%. So those are the levers we've got. I still want to see ABR come up. I think we can do that and again we're focused on it and put incentives in place [indiscernible] (00:24:53).

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Frank.

Your next question comes from Brian Kinstlinger with Alliance Global. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. You mentioned growth from revenue. Well, we can see that on the line item that healthcare was a big driver. It's also you've discussed the main driver to the quarter's bookings. Can you comment on the common trends that are driving that demand? And then is a bunch of that coming from acquisitions? Is there – or is there a large organic growth perspective from healthcare?

No, it's primarily all organic. I would say virtually none coming from acquisitions. There are some small pieces that – de-minimis compared to the growth that we're enjoying there. And the answer to your question is the theme is digital transformation, it's all of that, it's about the patient journey, patient as consumers of digitization, digitalization and the industry, the paradigm shift.

And like I said, it's all about the patient journey, whether we're working with healthcare providers or payers and the split between those two is still about, I want to say, 40-60 something like that. But everything that we're doing, a lot of analytics, a lot of patient-facing, customer-facing applications as well, and complete redesigns, redeployment of portals, but like I said and suffice it to say, all fit squarely under the digital transformation umbrella.

And would you say that, that answer is the same for the retail and consumer space, albeit on a smaller base? Is that digital transformation driving that accelerated growth as well?

It is. And you might be surprised, most of what we're doing – there might not be actually. Most of what we're doing in automotive and actually manufacturing is – fits under the digital transformation there. I would say 60-plus-percent of our revenue now, maybe more, fits under that.

And then when you look at your customer base, where are you, may be using baseball, what inning are you within your customer base of that digital transformation? Are you early in the process with them, are you late in the process, are you somewhere in the middle? How do you think about that?

Honestly, it's early for sure, and using the baseball metaphor, I would hazard honestly second or third inning. Particularly if you look at healthcare, that's just going to continue on, that tail. The bar is going to continually be rising and competitors are going to have to continue to sharpen their game as well. So this will be a long tail in my view on digital transformation in general. And in some of these industries in particular, they have a lot of catching up to do. Healthcare is one of them. So second or third inning.

And then, one question on the IBM-Red Hat, I know people have asked, but what I'm not – if you could articulate how it changes your business. I mean, you said that would increase business lead volume. You're already a top partner for IBM. You're already a top partner for Red Hat. What changes that you get more business leads?

Well, what always changes when IBM makes an acquisition is once they turn their substantial sales force on to those new solutions and services, growth happens pretty quickly, which again should increase lead flow to us. We're going to be automatically a go-to partner, because the relationship that we have with Red Hat already. And I would tell you that it's no secret that IBM's portfolio is a little behind. So I think this is transformational for IBM.

I think it'll be right in [indiscernible] (00:28:58) to take advantage of that. They're betting the farm on this quite obviously to go full cloud. And we're seeing a lot of demand around cloud development platform as a service with Red Hat OpenShift is going to be incredible component to IBM's portfolio now, but I'm sure they're going to drive a lot of business there. [indiscernible] (00:29:19) they were behind in cloud and this catches them up.

Got it. One more and then I have two numbers questions. When you look at pricing, which is up about 1%, maybe a little less this year, what was the reason that you're now able to increase prices, is it your sales folks felt they had to be more competitive on price to win deals or they couldn't get as many increases they want? I mean, what do you think led to that in such a strong economy?

Yeah, like I commented on earlier, I think honestly it's primarily – a lot of the hard areas we're growing in and we do want to hamper the growth, so it's a balance between the two. but I would say the major reason is that 85%, 90% of our revenue is coming from clients that they've been clients for a long time. It's little more difficult to raise rates in that kind of scenario, but also again, these large, large engagements that's – frankly we can accept a lower rate in exchange for the deployment of a lot of consultants with high utilization. So, the gross margin calculations on those projects are still intact and still hit the goal, even though the rate might actually be a point or two or three below what we want to drive towards as an average. Does that make sense?

Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Last question, on the share buybacks, where do you expect the company to exit the year on a share count basis and will it be an accelerated buyback, is that over time, just remind me the details behind that?

Well, we're going to continue to buyback. We always got a 10b5-1 plan in place when we're out of an open window. But in the open windows, we certainly take advantage of opportunities to buy and now it's different. I happen to think that the stock is very attractive to buy right now, so we'll be – once we're out of blackout, we'll be coming out and trying to pick some up. But the answer to your question...

Yeah. So, Brian, there is a thing called Q3 2018 financial results on our website and it shows our estimate is $32.5 million for the fourth quarter.

Great. Thank you so much.

Which is down $1.1 million from [indiscernible] (00:31:42) for Q3.

Right, right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Vincent Colicchio with Barrington Research. Your line is open.

Yes. Jeff, I'm curious in your strong bookings, is there any concentration with a handful of clients in any of the verticals or is it broad based?

No, that's pretty broad based. When I referred to that, I'm referring to what we call normalized organic. So obviously, we're taking out any acquisitions that we haven't had for over a year. But also from a normalized standpoint, when we do win a large deal like we did in July as an example, it was a three-year, multi-eight-figure contract, so we compressed that to 12 months and truncate off the other two years and come back around and add it in next year. So it's a solid good number, no more than 12 months out, even though a lot of the contracts run more than 12 months. And I guess that is substantial double digits year-over-year.

And then what needs to happen to hit the high end of your revenue guidance range? Is there any – probably related, is there any possibility that some of the canceled deals come back?

To that, I would say no. Those deals from Q2 I think are [ph] gone (00:33:10). Well, I shouldn't say that, actually one of them went with a competitor that we don't think is going to end well, so they may come back in fact. But the reality is, if everything goes our way in terms of the deals that we had out there for bookings and the timing on those, in this business, particularly in our business, the issue – the big challenge is we come into the quarter with 90-some-odd percent in backlog, right?

And the big challenge is we've got these deals, we know they're going to close, we know these ones are going to close for the most part. We got a good odds waiting system. The issue is, when will they close? So, a two-week slip, a four-week slip on some of these key deals can make a big difference. So, that's the answer to your question. If things kind of fall our way, there could be upside, we'll put out here, and I hope there is. Again, I think we've put out there a very reasonable, achievable midpoint, but there is upside potentially to that.

And then a follow-up on pricing, are you seeing better pricing with clients that you've added in the past, say, year or two?

Yes. And I'd say probably even more specifically in the last quarter. One of the focuses we have with the sales team right now is to bring in new logos and new accounts. I mentioned that repeat business number a minute ago. I'd actually like that to be a little lower, not in the form of losing any of that, but by adding more growth in the form of new logos. So, we obviously have better control and a new relationship and the new logos. [indiscernible]

(00:34:47) competitive, but we can drive a buck or two or three more in those deals. So I would say, the trend is good. Again, we've got these large, large deals that might be a little bit of a drag on it, but I actually think we'll be able to drive ABR up, I still feel there is a pretty substantial gap between us and our formidable competitors.

Thank you for answering my questions.

Thanks, Vincent. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Allen Klee with Maxim Group. Your line is open.

Hi, this is [ph] Josh (00:35:29) in for Allen. So, for the acquisition of Elixiter, can you be more specific about how much it is accretive to earnings and what is their profitability like and their margins?

Yeah. So, their profitability is fairly [ph] comparable (00:35:53), slightly better than our overall average. So it'll be accretive very modestly to adjusted EPS here in Q4, because we have two months, but it will be probably $0.02 to $0.04 in 2019.

Okay, nice. And your bill rate has been trending down. I think you sort of already touched upon it, but do you anticipate the bill rate to expand any time soon or are you expecting it to remain pretty much in line from where it is now?

Yeah. Josh, I think we're about flat year-to-date and that's not where we wanted to be. Our goal for the year was to raise it two to three points and we're still working on that. So, that's going to be my main goal again next year. In fact, that's likely to be our goal every year. I think we're in a climate, labor market's tight enough, so we should have some good pricing power.

Our win rates are great. Our delivery capability is the best in the business. So again, there is a pretty substantial gap between us and our best competitors. And we're going to go after that, again, two or three points. As I mentioned earlier, though, one of the challenges which is – which have the silver lining is that we are winning larger, longer-term deals. And in exchange for that, we're probably – we are offering a little bit more discount, but again, we offset that from a margin standpoint with longer term deployments and higher utilization.

Okay. And you highlighted in the press release some new customers. Are those as a result of the acquisition or are those customers that you've actually engaged with or is it both?

No, I think those are primarily, if not all, organic. And I would, yeah, I would chop them off, because as I mentioned earlier, we've got a focus and incentives on that for our sales team is to bring in new logos in that. We are running successful. So we're on track with our goals on new logos this year.

Okay. Got it. Yeah. Most of my questions were answered. So, thank you. That's it guys.

Okay. Thank you.

Yeah.

There are no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back over to Jeff Davis.

Okay. Well, thank you, everyone. As you can see, we're happy about the Q3 results. We're excited about Q4 and excited about the potential in 2019 with the bookings that we're enjoying, bookings in October were strong again. So we look forward to talking to you again in a few months about those results. Thanks.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.