Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Chairman, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian David Kinstlinger — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q4 2017 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Chairman and CEO, Jeff Davis. You may begin.

Thank you. This is Jeff Davis. Thank you for your time this morning. With me on the phone is Paul Martin, our CFO. And as typical, we've got about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments, after which we'll open the call up for questions. Paul, would you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements, and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Once again, good morning. Thanks, everybody, for joining. We're excited to be with you to share our fourth quarter and full year 2017 results, as well as our accompanying outlook on 2018. As we mentioned in our news release this morning, fourth quarter results were strong and as the New Year gets underway, Perficient's business is firing on all cylinders. Performance across all key indicators is accelerating. And as you can see in our full year outlook, we believe Perficient is poised for double-digit services revenue growth and earnings growth in 2018.

Our optimism stems for many things, but most important variable is that we continue to gain share by building broader and deeper relationships and winning larger and longer term enterprise work. In 2017, revenue from our top 50 accounts averaged $5 million apiece. That number was $3.9 million just three years ago instead of $2.9 million six years ago. So that's clear evidence that our landing and expanding and increasing our influence and impact with our most important customers.

The breadth and depth of our portfolio is resonating strongly in the market and we're uniquely positioned as the firm big and strong enough to deliver the same work the majors do, but more efficiently at higher quality and with quicker time to value. Some of these firms we're routinely beating our 50 to 100 times our size from a revenue and market cap perspective. So our runway for growth is not months or quarters, but years and decades ahead.

Bookings in the second half of 2017 were very strong and year-to-date 2018 have been solid as well. I attribute a meaningful portion of that to the investments we've made in our sales organization in recent years. We've discussed this pretty extensively over the last couple of years. And we've designed and implemented a prescriptive model which drives focus on key customers while substantially increasing sales capacity with more feet on the street.

All of this is driving momentum right now, and we'll benefit not only in terms of growing pipeline, but also remain focused on expanding margins by gradually growing average bill rate and closely managing utilization. And Paul will touch later on how the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has and will continue to positively impact Perficient, but we expect a favorable benefit just proportionate to the benefit it may have for most of our competitors.

There's really quite a bit of wind in our sales right now, I can't understate that. The economy is strong, consumer confidence is high, and all that translates into enterprises demonstrating greater propensity to invest in growing their businesses and driving digital transformation. Amidst that environment, our brand continues to strengthen; and grow and more customers are realizing, as I mentioned before, that Perficient can be their primary partner in those journeys.

With that, I'm going to turn the call back over to Paul to cover the financial results before I touch on a few additional items of note and our business outlook. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the fourth quarter 2017 were $133.5 million, a 12% increase compared to the year-ago quarter. Services revenues were $114.4 million for the fourth quarter 2017, excluding reimbursed expenses, an increase of 17% compared with the comparable prior-year period. Services gross margin for the three months ended December 31, 2017, excluding stock compensation, reimbursable expenses, and the tax-related bonus, increased to 38.6% from 36.6% in the comparable prior-year period.

SG&A expenses, excluding stock comp and tax-related bonus, increased to $25.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2017 from $22.2 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. SG&A expense excluding stock comp and tax-related bonus as a percentage of services revenues decreased to 21.9% from 22.7% in the fourth quarter of 2016.

EBITDA, excluding tax-related bonus, for the fourth quarter 2017 was $20.7 million or 15.5% of revenues, compared to $15.4 million or 12.9% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2016. The fourth quarter included amortization expense of $3.9 million, compared to $3.4 million in 2016. An adjustment of $4 million was recorded during the three months ended December 31 of 2017 which represents the impact of the fair value adjustment to the Clarity revenue and earnings-based contingent consideration liability to reflect Clarity's performance in excess of original estimates.

Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter 2017 was minus 44.2%, compared to 40.5% in the fourth quarter of 2016. The lower effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2017, was primarily due to revaluating the company's deferred income tax liabilities to reflect the lowering of the U.S. tax rate from 35% to 21% related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.

Net income increased 74% to $6.4 million for the fourth quarter 2017, from $3.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.19 a share for the fourth quarter, compared to $0.11 in the fourth quarter of 2016. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.37 a share for the fourth quarter of 2017 from $0.27 in the fourth quarter 2016.

Adjusted GAAP earnings per share is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensation transaction costs and the fair value adjustment of contingent consideration, and the impact of other infrequent or unusual items net of related taxes divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for the period. Our earning billable head count at December 31, 2017, was 2,572, including 2,350 billable consultants and 222 subcontractors. Pending SG&A, head count was 452.

I'll now turn to the full year results. Revenues for the 12 months ended December 31, 2017, were $485.3 million, a decrease of less than 1% over the comparable period last year. Services revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2017, excluding reimbursable expenses, were $434.3 million, an increase of 4% over 2016.

Services gross margin for the 12 months ended December 31, 2017, excluding stock compensation, reimbursable expenses and tax-related bonuses, increased to 37.4% from 35.9%, a 150 basis point improvement. SG&A expense excluding stock compensation, tax-related bonus increased to $97.1 million for 2017 from $92.4 million in the comparable prior-year period.

SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation and tax-related bonus as a percentage of revenues was 22.4% in 2017 compared to 22.1% in 2016. EBITDA excluding tax-related bonus for the 12 months ended December 31, 2017 was $70.8 million or 14.6% of revenues compared to $64.2 million or 13.2% of revenues in 2016. The 12 months ended December 31, 2017 included amortization of $15 million compared to $13.4 million in 2016. The increase in amortization expense was due to the addition of intangible assets from the 2017 acquisitions. An adjustment of $3.2 million was recorded during 2017 which represents the impact of the fair value adjustments of the Clarity, RAS, and Bluetube revenue and earnings-based contingent consideration liability in addition to accretion of the fair value estimates for the revenue and earnings-based contingent consideration related to these acquisitions.

Our effective tax rate for the 12 months ended December 31, 2017 was 31.5% compared to 32.9% for the 12 months ended December 31, 2016. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to revaluing the company's deferred income tax liability to report the lowering of the U.S. tax [audio gap] (09:40). Partially offsetting this benefit was the full charge on accumulated foreign earnings imposed by the 2017 Tax Act.

Net income from the 12 months ended December 31, 2017, decreased to $18.6 million from $20.5 million. Diluted GAAP earnings per share was $0.55 in 2017, compared to $0.58 in 2016. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share increased to $1.23 for 2017, compared to $1.08 in 2016. We ended the fourth quarter of 2017 with $55 million in outstanding debt, an increase of $23 million from 2016.

The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of RAS and Clarity and $36.8 million of share repurchase, partially offset by operating cash flows. Our balance sheet continues to leave us extremely well-positioned to execute on our strategic plans. Our days sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 76 days at December 31, 2017, compared to 79 days at the end of 2016.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. So a little more on bookings. We sold 48 deals during the fourth quarter, north of $0.5 million each that averaged $1.3 million. That compared to 32 in the third quarter averaging $1.9 million and 40 in the fourth quarter of 2017 that averaged $1.1 million. So 20% growth in large deal volume and 18% growth in large deal size versus the prior-year quarter.

During the quarter, the health sciences, financial services, automotive and retail, consumer goods verticals represented 58% of our revenue: healthcare at 28%, financial services at 13%, automotive at 9%, and retail consumer goods at 8%.

So we reiterated on last quarter's call that we anticipate a strong second half from the health sciences vertical, and revenue there was indeed up 18% year-over-year. Q4 health sciences bookings were quite strong as well, up 28% year-over-year. We also saw strength in bookings in retail and consumer goods, up 44%; financial services up 41%; and telecom up 55%.

Strategically, going forward, we're focused on things like increasing the leverage of our global and domestic development centers. I expect that through 2020 those will grow at even faster pace than our overall business. We're also remaining nimble and ready to pivot through M&A, as well as by building partnerships in anticipation of where we see the market headed. For example, and there will be more news on this in the coming weeks, but we're investing significantly with Pivotal to train and certify hundreds on our team to support the future we see there.

We also continue to make significant investments in many other areas, not the least of which is [ph] FFDC (12:27), where we enjoyed 20% growth in 2017. So the entire organization is rallying focused on a subset of key accounts, where we determine we have the most significant growth opportunities. So I've given you the stats on our top 50. We are going to begin talking more and more about what we call the Growth 50. This will be of course someone with fluid list that our marketing sales and delivery teams are all aligned and collaborating to drive increased business in that group of customers that we have.

As we report successful quarters and years going forward, I expect the accounts that comprise the Growth 50 will be very key contributors. Again, in closing, we're as optimistic as we've been in many years. Our colleagues are executing incredibly well against the strategies we put in place. And existing as well as new customers are increasingly concluding that Perficient is the partner of choice when it comes to transforming your business for the future.

So turning our attention to expectations for the first quarter and full year. Preficient expects its first quarter 2018 revenue to be in the range of $115 million to $119 million. First quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.32 to $0.35. The company is issuing its full year 2018 revenue guidance range of $470 million to $500 million; and its GAAP earnings per share range of $0.68 to $0.82; and a 2018 adjusted earnings per share range of $1.40 to $1.52. The midpoint of that range represents annual services growth of about 11% and earnings growth of 19%.

Bear in mind that with the accounting regulation changes, we no longer book the top line of software revenue. So we're focused primarily on services now and that's what these numbers represent. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon from Needham & Company. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning. Jeff, could you talk a little bit about the client budgets this year versus, say, 12 months ago when you entered 2018 versus 2017 and then just in terms of size and scope of opportunities that you're seeing? And specifically within the banking segment, a lot of your peers have called out banking as a vertical that's seeing higher spend levels on digital because they're benefiting from tax reform and, of course, less regulatory pressure as well has freed up IT budgets at banks, so maybe you could reference that as well. Thanks.

Sure, absolutely. Thanks, Mayank. Yeah, I would say what we're seeing is sort of a tide lifting all boats. But to your first question, there's definitely improved spending, I would say, pretty much across all segments compared to what we're seeing a year ago or prior. So I think there's been an improved segment. I do think that we'll see that continue and probably accelerate as some of these – some of the tax reform kicks in. I know for us we're going to be making investments with that, and I'm sure and what we're hearing from our customers is they plan to do as well.

Specifically to financial services, yeah, I mentioned we saw a nice improvement there in the second half of the last year, particularly a significant improvement in bookings, which is a leading indicator of exactly what you're talking about. And we've got a particular opportunity in most of the business that we do in FinServ, or I would say maybe 50% or better is management consulting. So we still got an opportunity to further penetrate that on the technical side. And in fact, we're making investments around our preparation to further penetrate that with things like high-trust and other investments in our own environment. So we certainly anticipate growth there, but again I would say we're seeing growth fairly broad based.

Got it. And then how would you categorize the pricing environment? I know in the past you've talked about there being plenty of headroom for you to increase rates just based on the disparity between where you're at versus some of your peers. So maybe you could give us some perspective on your expectations on pricing increments in 2018.

Yeah. Absolutely. So we managed to move rates up a little over 2% last year. Our goal this year would be the same thing, something in the 2% to 3% range. I do think, as I stated before, as you pointed out, that the gap between us and the big guys is great enough that that can continue for a long time. But at the same time, we want to keep a pace that will be disruptive or create a headwind for our sales teams. So 2% to 3% is what we're driving for this year; and again rather than kind of rush that and run the risk of pricing ourselves out of anything, that's probably the base that I would expect for the foreseeable future. But if the market tightens, I think that pace increases. But 2% to 3% for this year and I still think we've got another 20%, 25% to go from where we are now. And as the market changes, that obviously could increase going forward.

Great. The one final question on margins, I think I may have missed this but what is your expectation on margin expansion both on the services line and then also on operating or EBITDA margin? And then what are some of the puts and takes we should be considering as we build out the model for margins?

So on gross margins this year, I would say a 100 bps-plus. One of the reasons that's maybe a little below where we were last year is we got a little tougher comp but also in the investments I alluded to, I mentioned around Pivotal, so making some investments there. We'll reach a breakeven point on that likely in the second quarter. And so, we'll experience more expansion in the second half than we will in the first but for the year again I would say 100 bps-plus. And then likewise EBITDA, EBITDA is probably in the 100 bps to 200 bps range, so maybe 150 bps as a midpoint on that.

Right. That's helpful. Thank you for the color. Good luck.

Thanks, Mayank. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Maxim Group. Your line is open.

Hey, great. Thanks so much. Great to see the solid organic growth. You mentioned some priorities in terms of investments you're making into growth. Are there new groups being added or are there hires being created to address higher growth rate areas? Is that what's happening or are you investing to expand the skillset of your employee base? And then, I couldn't write it down fast enough, you mentioned one or two areas of growth in terms of applications and growth areas. If you can just repeat those, I couldn't get them down.

Yeah. Absolutely, Brian. Thanks. Pivotal is a key area. I mentioned Salesforce as well and, again, we continue to make investments there and enjoyed great growth there last year at 20%. But Pivotal Cloud Foundry, which is a platform-as-a-service, is where we see a big opportunity. We've developed a strong relationship with them really just in the recent months, probably over the last six months. And, yes, we intend to hire pretty substantially into that. That is not reflected by the way in any of our guidance as it's still early on in the process, but we're making those investments now, both in terms of training and creating certified Pivotal developers and of course in hiring those resources.

Our intent and expectation around that is that most of that revenue will be incremental and will be incremental to the guidance that we've provided now. So we wanted to be cautious, but I can tell you that things are off to a great start. And so, that's one that we're certainly excited about, expect to see some upside around.

And is the market for Pivotal such that as you have new employees trained or new employees with those skillsets that there's so much demand that they can be immediately placed or how long will that ramp take once you have that employee base or consulting base to fill requisites?

That is a great question. They'll go right out. We have a substantial pipeline around that. A lot of companies are adopting that as their primary process and platform for development, big companies like GE, Ford, Express Scripts here in St. Louis and a number of other large companies that we've engaged with; also through our relationship with Pivotal. As they are experiencing a most significant surge in growth, they're looking more and more to partners for delivering the services as they're focusing more on enablement. So, yeah, we're super excited about it and, yeah, directed to your question, pretty much as soon as these guys finish training, they're going to be available.

Great. And then looking at the offshore delivery mix, you've talked about that big inhibitor growth on the top line, but also a plan of investment. But it looks like it stabilized for the last quarter, the offshore delivery mix. So maybe talk about some short-term and long-term goals of offshore delivery capabilities and percentage maybe of your mix?

Yeah. I think, long-term, I think that mix can rise to 25% ultimately of revenue, which should be a substantial change here and again I think that's pretty long-term. But I expect that even though we might have been more in lockstep with the overall business, I think that's partly because the overall business did pretty well in Q4. But I still think that that business will outpace the overall business by about 5 points. So we're growing 10%, U.S. is growing 10%, I expect 15%, between the DDC, which is by the way ecstatically in Lafayette, Louisiana and also our GDCs in India and China. So we're expecting that kind of growth there. By the way, Pivotal is going to be a part of that. So we're going to be gearing up for off-shore delivery with Pivotal as well. And I think we'll see a lot of demand there at those attractive price points.

Great. Last question I have, a few times in the past when you guys more recently, in the more recent years have provided a solid top line outlook like today's solid organic growth, you've been tripped up unfortunately by a large healthcare customer. I think it's happened twice. So maybe some insights into that customer's demand, its plans for growth, is it a large of a customer that we thought it could be? I just want to understand that customer concentration from that customer that's hit you a few times.

Yeah, absolutely. Actually, I would tell you that things are very, very stable there. And by based on everything we see in all of our top 50 right now, we're seeing really good stability. The progress that they're making on their program, which is where we kind of got caught up before, it wasn't necessarily the areas where we were working. It was more dependencies but that has been resolved. And I would say things are going very smoothly for their program overall and our deliveries going well, our relationship with them is very strong. And Paul what's the concentration of that account right now?

Yeah. So the largest four accounts are 16% of our revenues and I think the largest one itself is about 4%, 5%.

So it's down to 4% or 5% concentration. I would tell you on an absolute basis the revenue is close to our highest run rate there. So the good news is the rest of the top 50 have kind of risen around it and diluted it which is great from a resi standpoint but we – and it's, of course, hard to anticipate any of those kinds of issues but we're pretty darn confident we're not going to see any of that.

Great. Thanks so much, guys.

Thanks, Brian.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Michael Martin from Michael J. Martin (25:24). Your line is open.

Good morning and congratulations. Just one question, what kind of income tax rate are you assuming for this year?

Yeah. So for 2018, we're expecting the GAAP rate to be around 27%, 28% and the adjusted rate will be a few points below that.

Okay. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon from Needham & Co. Your line is open.

All my questions have been answered. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to Jeff Davis.

All right. Well, thank you all. As you can see, a great end and finish to 2017. I think we've got a wonderful outlook, and really actually anticipating some upside potential for the year going forward and beyond. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. Have a wonderful day. You may all disconnect.