Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Frank C. Atkins — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Joshua M. Seide — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q1 2016 Perficient's Earnings Conference Call. My name is Steve and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

And now, I would like to turn to the call over to President and CEO, Jeff Davis.

Well, good morning, everybody. This is Jeff Davis. With me on the call today is Paul Martin, our CFO. I want to thank you for your time this morning. And as typical, we've got a few minutes here of prepared comments, after which we'll open up the call for questions.

Paul, would you please read the Safe Harbor Statement?

Sure. Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may be materially different from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted earnings per share. Our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations.

Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Once again, good morning. Thanks for joining. We're pleased to discuss our first quarter results with you. 2016 got off to a great start with total services revenue up 12% overall and 6% organically.

In a year where we were targeting single-digit organic growth, high-single-digit organic growth, our performance in Q1 [ph] made (02:03) a solid foundation to build on, as three consecutive quarters of sequential revenue growth and, of course, I'm sure many of you saw in the release that our Q2 revenue guidance outlines the likelihood that a fourth consecutive quarter of growth is underway.

December, January and March were very strong months for bookings. In fact, they represent our three largest bookings months ever, and the great news is that much of the growth there is organic. The result of that performance is a solid backlog and continuing confidence that we'll be capable of delivering our strong year of growth.

We continue to focus on leveraging the ABR improvements we've made in recent years across the larger book of business to drive organic growth. Things were turning well there. Total organic billable hours in Q1 were up 11% annually.

Cloud, SaaS, digital transformation and customer experience initiatives are driving our success, and we're uniquely positioned to capitalize on those trends for years to come. And we previewed our plans to launch the Perficient Digital agency on the fourth quarter call and in recent weeks did just that. The early feedback from our clients, partners, prospects and press is overwhelmingly positive.

What we've really done with Perficient Digital is enhance and expand upon the solid foundation of agency-oriented skills that have existed with Perficient for many years. User-centered design and creative excellence have been core to our being for more than a decade, but we saw the opportunity to enhance our capabilities. So we got busy building.

First, supplementing our capabilities with a great team that came to Perficient via the Zeon, Grand River and then adding Enlighten, a digital marketing agency. Those three consolidated teams now form our new agency, Perficient Digital, and we expect to be a meaningful growth catalyst going forward.

Unlike several of our traditional agency competitors and consultancy competitors, we're not an IT and management firm with an agency offering bolted-on as an afterthought. And on the flip side, we're not an agency that dazzles but can't deliver. In many ways, Perficient is the preeminent provider, the exact entity that customers want and need and that our competitors strive, but fail to be.

As the world continues to digitally transform, customer experience in technology are now inextricably linked. In business today and tomorrow you're digital or dead. And Perficient with Perficient Digital not only brings brilliant, creative, and marketing minds to bear on these business imperatives, but an unparalleled, deep and broad technical expertise that enables the operational implementation of those solutions. So in conjunction with the launch of the agency, we also launched a re-imagined Perficient website that was designed by our agency. If you haven't seen it yet, I'd encourage you to take a look.

We've been winning this work and beating the Accenture Interactives, Deloitte Digitals, SapientNitros as well as the smaller agencies of the world fairly regularly already. And by formally launching the agency and more aggressively marketing our skills in this space, we expect to drive significantly more opportunity.

I'll touch on a few other notable topics and speak to our Q2 outlook after Paul shares the details about the first quarter results. Then as usual, we'll open the call up for questions. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the first quarter of 2016 were $123.8 million, a 12% increase over the year-ago quarter. Services revenues were $109.7 million for the first quarter of 2016 excluding reimbursable expenses, which represents an increase of 11% over the comparable prior-year quarter. Services gross margin for the first quarter, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, were 36.1% compared to 36% in the first quarter of 2015.

SG&A expense, excluding stock compensation, increased to $24.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 from $21.7 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. SG&A as a percentage of revenue increased slightly to $19.8 million from $19.7 million in the first quarter of 2015. [ph]

EBITDAS (05:50) for the first quarter of 2016 was $17.2 million or 13.9% of revenues and was essentially flat compared to $15.5 million or 14% of revenues in the first quarter of 2015.

The first quarter of 2016 included amortization expense of $3.4 million compared to $3.8 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. Decrease is primarily due to intangible assets related to previous acquisitions becoming fully amortized, partially offset by the addition of intangible assets from acquisitions that were completed during 2015.

Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2016 was 31.1% compared to 34.6% in the first quarter of 2015. The decrease in the effective rate is primarily due to the research and development tax credit and the early adoption of ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.

Net income increased 33% to $5.4 million for the first quarter of 2016 from $4.1 million in the first quarter of 2015. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.16 a share for the first quarter of 2016 from $0.12 a share in the first quarter of 2015. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.29 a share for the first quarter of 2016 from $0.26 a share in the first quarter of 2015.

Again, adjusted EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensation, transaction costs, and fair value adjustments of contingent consideration. Net of related tax is divided by fully diluted shares outstanding for the period.

We ended the first quarter of 2016 with $56 million in outstanding debt, consistent with the balance at December 30, 2015, and $9 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our balance sheet continues to leave us very well positioned to execute on our strategic plan.

Our ending global head count in March 31, 2016 was 2,540, including 2,342 global consultants and 198 subcontractors. Ending SG&A head count was 432. Our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 85 days at the end of the first quarter of 2016 compared to 80 days at the end of the fourth quarter and 79 days at the end of the first quarter of 2015.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff for a little more commentary behind the numbers. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. As I mentioned, bookings in the first quarter were quite strong. In fact, we sold 50 deals, north of $500,000 in the quarter, and they averaged $1.4 million each. Now that compares to 35 in the fourth quarter, averaging $1.4 million each and 38 in the first quarter of 2015 that averaged $1 million. So you can see a significant increase in the number of large deals booked sequentially and a meaningful increase in volume and size on an annual basis.

Healthcare and financial services verticals again represented a significant portion of revenues, collectively accounting for 48%. Those two verticals also were strongest from the Q1 bookings perspective.

Before we close, I also want to reiterate that it remains our intention to add two to three more deals this year via M&A. Obviously, we'll be patient as we need to find the right deals, and there are no guarantees we'll find them, but we are in advanced discussions with a few firms we believe will be good strategic fits.

So again, in summary, a really solid start to 2016. Q1 bookings were great. We've launched Perficient Digital. We remain confident in our full-year projections and are looking forward to a great year of growth.

So turning our attention to the expectations for the second quarter, Perficient expects its second quarter 2016 services and software revenue, including reimbursed expenses, to be in the range of $119 million to $129 million, comprised of $113 million to $119 million of revenue from services, including reimbursed expenses, and $6 million to $10 million of revenue from sales of software. The midpoint of second quarter 2016 services revenue represents growth of 15% year-over-year for the second quarter.

With that, we can open the call for any questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And that question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon from Needham & Co. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, Jeff and Paul.

Good morning.

Just to kick things off, again, a good start to the year, but I just want to be clear, Jeff and Paul. You gave 2Q guidance. Are you reiterating also the guidance you've given previously for fiscal 2016 in terms of the revenue range and the EPS range?

Yes.

Okay. I didn't see that in the press release. So I was just curious if that was still intact? [ph]

Yeah. All right. Yeah (10:46).

Okay. And then, I know 1Q is not a good reflection of the margin trajectory, but I also want to be clear in terms of your expectations for margins for this year. Are you still thinking in terms of 150 basis points to 200 basis points of services gross margin improvement? And then, I think you have mentioned 100 basis points to 150 basis points of EBITDA margin expansion for fiscal 2016. Is that still kind of the range we should be modeling?

Yeah. I think 150 basis points to 200 basis points on gross services and 100 basis points to 150 basis points on EBITDAS is still a good goal for us. It will be more back-end loaded, much like the last few years have been. So expect continued expansion as we move forward through the year.

Got it. And then, I think you've mentioned the 11% organic volume growth. I'm assuming that's higher than the overall revenue growth organic just because you have more than offshore impact. Is that a fair assessment?

Yeah. That's exactly right. We continue to see a very strong growth offshore, and we expect that will continue.

So while it creates a little bit of a headwind on top line revenue growth, obviously, the volume growth is very, very good, I mean, this is probably the best volume growth we've had in years. And of course, we have strong margins offshore as well. So that will help with the margin expansion.

Right. I'm just double-checking all the numbers here. I also want to make sure that your organic revenue growth was about 9% this quarter, and you're still thinking in terms of 8% organic revenue growth for fiscal 2016, I think, based on your previous guidance.

Yeah. It's about 6.5% in the first quarter. The midpoint of guidance for Q2 is about 10%. And, yeah, the midpoint of our overall annual guidance is about 8%, and we're still holding to that.

Got it. Okay. And then, just moving on to more of a qualitative question. You called out healthcare. Obviously, that's an important vertical for you. Can you just remind us and investors in terms of your value proposition within healthcare? What are some the key engines of growth? Where are you differentiated? And then, how are you faring versus some of the emerging competitors in that space?

I think we're differentiated in a lot of ways really. And a lot of what's going on in the healthcare happens to be exactly in our sweet spot, not to mention actually Perficient Digital participating more and more in healthcare.

So the services we're providing there, I would say, run the gamut under the digital transformation umbrella. Consumerism in healthcare continues to rise. And so, we've got payers and providers, both hospital systems and plans viewing the patient as a consumer, [ph] and rightly so. Patients (13:13) have more choices like consumers.

So they're putting in place systems and processes very similar to retailer or consumer products companies. So that involves, again, everything digital transformation, patient portals, mobile, a lot of things, high touch with the patient, and not least. In fact, I would say most important and probably our biggest differentiator is data analytics, so the analysis of quality of care, cost of care and, in fact, predictive analytics around patient care.

That's helpful. And then, just one final question from me. In terms of the guidance for fiscal 2016, how does the revenue breakdown between your expectations for pricing improvement, utilization trends, and then head count growth?

I think we'll see some improvement on rates. Because of the couple of large engagements that we started last year, I think we mentioned at the time that we had to give out some discounts to get those. However, the tradeoff was utilization. So I do expect utilization will continue to be higher than last year, two points to three points, I would expect across the year. And with rates up slightly, I think we'll see some improvement there as well.

But most of the growth that I think we're going to see, both in volume and in revenue, is going to come just from new wins and more business. Again, a lot of other things kind of being equal other than increased utilization driving higher margins.

Right. Excellent. Great job, guys.

Thanks, Mayank.

And our next question comes from the line of Frank Atkins from SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Thanks a lot for taking my question. I wanted to ask a little bit about the talent or hiring environment you're seeing out there. Any changes? Are you still being able to get great people?

Yeah. Actually, we've had great success. We continue to be – really I would say thrilled is not an overstatement in terms of the quality of people that we're able to attract. I do think we're an attractive employer and are set apart given our focus, the technologies that we focus on, the solutions that we focus on. And our growth, I think, makes us attractive as well.

In fact, our attrition in Q1 was the lowest it's been in quite some time at about – little over 16%, which is, I would say, close to best-of-breed in the industry for a company of our size. So everything is going very well on the talent acquisition and retention front.

Okay. Great. And as we look towards the Digital agency piece and building out that, what does that mean for kind of longer term EBITDAS goals and targets, and how should we think about the trajectory of margins as it's impacted by that?

I think it'll be neutral for margins for the most part. The key driver and opportunity around Perficient Digital is being that end-to-end provider that I think so many companies are seeking today, as I mentioned in the prepared comments, not a bolt-on, not an afterthought. This is work that we've been doing for 15 years. But we have recently added to that very, very deep capability. So I think it will be more of a lead opportunity for us, a tip of the spear, if you will, and obviously plays very, very well to CMO.

As we all know, it has more and more influence over IT spend. And really, both the CMO and CIO, again, are looking for an integrated solution that can handle both the agency work, the brilliant, elegant, creative, all the way through the delivery and operational solutions.

Okay. And last one from me. Can you talk a little bit about the opportunities you see in the kind of retail-consumer segment?

We're seeing good strength there. I mentioned the Zeon acquisition that we did. It really rounded out our capability on commerce platforms, adding Magento. But we continue to see good strength with Sterling and IBM Commerce as well as other opportunities around retail and particularly around digital transformation, as I mentioned before, and API development, helping retailers enhance their web presence and actually the call centers and getting more information about products that they're selling, improved services. We're seeing continued opportunities in all those spaces.

All right. Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Frank. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Maxim Group. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is actually Josh Seide in for Brian. Thanks for taking the questions. We have been hearing a lot about slower or uncertain enterprise IT spending. Are you seeing this begin to impact your bookings at all?

No. There's always ebb and flow, but I think those are very customer specific from what we're seeing. So right now we continue to see, again, great bookings in the first quarter, solid start to the second quarter. So it remains to be seen. We still got some work to do to shore up the entire year. But I would say, thus far, we're still seeing a nice demand out there.

One of the things that I think somewhat differentiates us, we're small. It's kind of David versus Goliath, but we could share from these big guys. So even if the spend is not going to drive our growth, their increased spending per se, I think we can still grow by taking share away from our larger competitors.

Okay. And can you talk a bit about your ability over the last six months to win new logos? I think it was two years ago that you announced that you're beginning to work with the Salesforce to incentivize new logo wins, and I'm curious if there's been any improvement there?

I can't quantify that for you now. I can tell you anecdotally that absolutely we've added new logos. I know that a good chunk of the bookings that we had in the first quarter, I would say a higher percentage in the first quarter came from new logos than in the past. So we are experiencing some success there. Like I've said, I just don't have that quantified for you right now.

Sure. That's helpful. And can you talk a bit about how much of the effort was delivered from India and what the trajectory there is maybe over the next year and how about the next two years as well? Thanks.

It's about 10% roughly of services revenue today. And, of course, keep in mind that the rate differential means that it's about 25% or 30% of the volume or so billable hours, coming from offshore. I think that mix probably continues to rise, more – a higher percentage of offshore, just based on what we're seeing right now.

I alluded to this earlier. In terms of taking share away from competitors, we've seen a lot of instances over the last 12 months to 24 months. So we've had long-term trusted relationships with a number of enterprise customers that are turning more and more to us to take on more of the offshore work, particularly the high ROI, quick turnaround project-based work that apparently our competitors are struggling to deliver.

So we continue to see that opportunity there, also in healthcare. Healthcare is much more open now to offshoring some of these projects than they were a few years ago. So both of those drivers, I think, will continue to see an expansion of our offshore relative to onshore for the foreseeable future.

Great. Thanks.

Thank you.

I would now like to turn the call back over to Jeff Davis for closing remarks.

All right. Well, once again, thank you all for joining today. As you can see, we've got a great start to the year and look forward to reporting the second quarter results in 90 days. Thank you.

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Thank you very much and have a very good day.