raw transcript


Perficient, Inc.
 
PRFT
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2006 Perficient


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Minutia and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator


Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call Mr. Jack McDonald,


Chairman and CEO. Please proceed sir,


John T. McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


This is Jack McDonald. With me on the phone today are Mike Hill, our CFO; and Jeff Davis, our


President and COO. I would like to thank you for your time. As is typically the case, we will have


about 10 or 15 minutes of prepared comments after which we will open the call up for questions.


Mike, would you read the Safe Harbor statement.


Michael D. Hill, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and Secretary


Thanks Jack and good afternoon. Some of the things we will discuss on today's call concerning


future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities


laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements


and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning


factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.


John T. McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Q2 was an extraordinary quarter for Perficient. We posted record revenues, cash EPS, and GAAP


EPS, as well as record EBITDA. We are taking about 73% year-over-year growth in revenues on


total. On an organic basis alone 28%, organic services growth, now that's based on the trailing four


quarters annual utilization that we do to factor in seasonality. If you look at just Q2 alone we had


12% sequential growth, Q1 and Q2, 12.2%. That annualizes out to 48% organic if you looked at


just the spot number for the Q2 quarter, so really incredible growth top-line and organic. And Jeff


Davis is going to comment on this further later but the market is showing continuing signs of


strength. We continue to win larger and more strategic engagements than we see our high growth


continuing into Q3.


Our operating metrics were strong across the board. If you look at services gross margin it


increased sequentially and year-over-year and now approaches 40% net of stock comp expense.


Average bill rate increased again and has grown on 10% annualized basis. Utilization excluding


subs in the quarter was nearly 87% and our recruiting engine continues to perform, Jeff is going to


talk about this further later but we added 75 net new billable resources through the end of Q2 and


have a very strong recruiting pipeline as we move into the second half of the year.


We realized in Q2 our 13th consecutive quarter of growth and our 17th consecutive quarter of


positive EBITDA. And regarding EBITDA the business continues to generate substantial cash flow.


If you give full effect to our recent acquisitions including EGG, the most recently announced


acquisition. We are now generating more than $27 million per year in EBITDA. That's on a pro


forma basis that's factoring out a stock comp, but north of $27 million a year and growing.
raw transcript


Perficient, Inc.
 
PRFT
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We lined up a $52 million acquisition financing facility, low cost, senior debt facility in the second


quarter which will enable us to complete additional accretive acquisitions and do so with a capital


mix that enhances return on equity. So we have a sizable war chest and we are actively out in the


market looking at additional deals. Of course we have closed two accretive acquisitions in Q2 and


a third one just in the first month here of Q3. So we have been talking for sometime about our


strong pipeline on the M&A side and the fact that we are executing on at I think those acquisitions


demonstrate that that we have got additional deals in the pipe and our net pipeline continues to run


north of $250 million, gross pipeline north of a billion. So there is significant additional accretive


acquisition opportunities out there and as I say we are intending to execute aggressively against


that pipeline.


We have continued to build out our growth infrastructure. You may have noticed recently we


announced an accomplished new CFO. Paul Martin has joined the team. Mike Hill who has done


a superb job for us as CFO over the past two years and who will continue to serve in the CFO post


until August 20th, I believe, he is going to be staying on as Vice President of Strategic Finance with


a focus on M&A increasing our bandwidth in that area.


We entered Q3 at an annualized revenue run rate north of $170 million and our forward guidance


which reflects Q3 services revenue growth of between 67 and 75% is stronger than it's ever been.


There were a number of other positive developments during the quarter, many of which were


mentioned in the press release but I want to call attention at the fact that Perficient was selected for


inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Select Market which is the highest tier of NASDAQ listing. Very


few firms of our size were selected for inclusion. In fact less than one in three included firms that


are market cap below 500 million, so it's a nice external validation of our performance as well as


our prospects moving forward.


As I mentioned we see strong growth continuing into Q3 with record forward guidance and great


market fundamentals. We have a real shot subject to completing one or two additional accretive


acquisitions of achieving our stretch goal of a revenue run rate by the end of this year of close to


$200 million. Again there are no guarantees in life but we are aggressively pursuing that stretch


goal. And 200 million by year-end will be just another milestone in our plan to grow $500 million


business by 2010. I believe we have a unique opportunity, the best physicians, most profitable and


fastest growing US based eBusiness consultancy as the survivor of the Internet crash and the


nuclear winner to continue to pick up the pieces and consolidate this market and build the premier


eBusiness consultancy in the United States. I am now going to turn the call over to Mike Hill to


discuss in detail the financial results for the quarter. Mike?


Michael D. Hill, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and Secretary


Thanks Jack. Our total revenue for Q2 was 37.5 million, a 73% increase over the year ago quarter.


Services revenue including reimburse expenses was 34.9 million with strong organic services


growth of over 28% on a trailing four quarters average annualized basis.


Gross margin for services during Q2 was 38.9%, up from 34.7% Q1. This increase was a result of


strong utilization of 90% in the quarter, up from 86% Q1. That's 90% including subcontractors, 87%


excluding subcontractors. And it's all – the margin improvement is also due to increased average


billing rates to $116 an hour, up from $113 an hour in Q1. This gross margin on services included


$242,000 of non-cash stock compensation expense without which services gross margins would


have been 39.6%.


SG&A expense was 8.2 million in Q2 including $504,000 of non-cash stock compensation.


Excluding this non-cash stock compensation, SG&A expense was 7.7 million which represents


22.1% of services revenue including reimburse expenses. This is a slightly higher percentage


compared to 20.1% in Q1 of '06 as a result of higher bonuses and sales commissions from our