Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer, Perficient, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Brian D. Kinstlinger — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Peter J. Heckmann — Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Quarter Three 2013 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. My name is Susan, I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the call over to Jeff Davis, President and CEO. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you and good morning, everyone. With me today, as always, is Paul Martin, our CFO. I want to thank you for your time this morning. We have, I think, some great results to talk about in a couple of minutes. As is typical, we've got a few minutes of prepared comments and then we'll open the call up for questions.

But before we proceed, Paul, will you please read the Safe Harbor statement?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussion.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or GAAP, and this is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations.

Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. While we're definitely excited to discuss our third quarter results with you, on previous calls throughout this year, we've referenced a conscious confidence around the second half of the year and I think the results that we announced this morning combined with our fourth quarter guidance really reflect the realization of that optimism.

During the third quarter, services revenue was up 14% year-over-year, net income was up 41% and earnings per share on a fully diluted basis were up 44%. ABR, our average bill rate increased to $137 an hour for North American employees and that's an all-time high which is also up 5% year-over-year. That pricing power helped us grow service margins to – by 270 basis points to 39.2% and I continue to believe that we have an opportunity to incrementally grow bill rates contain costs and possibly even drive a little more utilization that will help us continue to move toward our long-term goal, 40% plus services gross margins, I think we're getting close to that and might see it sometime next year.

We continue to realize solid bookings during the quarter as well and more good news there. So closing September particularly strong was a big month for us. Bookings in total were up 21% year-over-year and year-to-date remain up 17% year-over-year. So a key metric we use as a matter of the business is our success in booking larger deals, you heard me talk about this before. We closed 25 deals in the quarter that were over $0.5 million, they average $1.4 million apiece, and that compares to 19 a year ago averaging $1.3 million, so more large deals and larger deals.

Year-to-date we booked 82 deals in north of $0.5 million that averaged $1.3 million apiece and that compares to 61 the prior year at $1.1 million average per deal last year. So delivering larger deals and maintaining larger relationships is a core component of our ongoing strategy and we're really seeing it pay off. You heard me talk before about our land and expanded strategy which we're executing now in earnest. And again we're really seeing dividends from that. I think it's going to help us, not only drive additional stability into the business where I feel we already are quite stable, but also helped us drive those growth numbers to a higher level as we discussed in the past.

So we now serve 38 unique $2 million plus of your clients and 10 of those clients are actually running annual billings greater than $5 million. The third quarter results of course include no contribution from the CoreMatrix acquisition we announced in mid-October. I'll speak more to our strategy there and about that acquisition. Obviously, we're quite excited about the transaction and we're seeing some benefits already. Again, I'm going to talk more about that in a minute, and I'll share some more notable details on the quarter and comment on our outlook for Q4 and the rest of the year after Paul shares the financial details for the quarter. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the third quarter were $96.8 million, an 11% increase over the year ago quarter. Services revenue for the third quarter of 2013, excluding reimbursable expenses, increased 14% to $86.6 million compared to the comparable prior-year quarter. Services gross margin for the third quarter of 2013, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, increased to 39.2% from 36.5% in the third quarter of 2012.

SG&A expenses increased to $20.5 million in the third quarter of 2013 from $17.7 million in the comparable prior-year quarter. And SG&A, as a percentage of revenue increased to 21.2% from 20.3% in the third quarter of 2012.

EBITDAS for the third quarter of 2013 was $16.2 million or 16.7% of revenues compared to $13.1 million or 14.9% of revenues in the third quarter of 2012. The third quarter 2013 included amortization of $2 million compared to $2.3 million in the comparable prior-year quarter.

Net income increased 41% to $7.2 million for the third quarter 2013 from $5.1 million in the second – in the third quarter of 2012. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.23 for the third quarter 2013 from $0.16 in the third quarter of 2012.

Adjusted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.32 for the third quarter of 2013 from $0.26 in the third quarter of 2012. As a reminder, adjusted GAAP EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization expense, non-cash stock compensation, transaction costs and fair value adjustments of contingent consideration net of related taxes, divided by average fully diluted shares outstanding for the relevant period.

Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2013 was 29.5% compared to 31% for the third quarter of 2012. The decrease in the effective rate is primarily due to a tax deduction for U.S. domestic production activities related to the 2013 tax year and the last three tax years which was recorded in the third quarter of 2013.

Our ending billable head count at September 30, 2013 was 1,751, including 1,571 billable consultants and 180 subcontractors. Ending SG&A head count at September 30, 2013 was 296.

Now let me turn to the full year results. Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 were $275.9 million, a 13% increase over the comparable period last year. Year-to-date services revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, excluding reimbursable expenses were $240.5 million, an increase of 12% over the comparable prior-year period.

Services gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses, increased to 37.3% from 35.8% in the prior-year period. SG&A expense increased to $57.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 from $49.1 million in the comparable prior-year period. SG&A as a percentage of revenues was 20.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared to 20.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, primarily due to increased investments in research and development and sales related costs.

EBITDAS for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was $41 million or 14.8% of revenues compared to $35.6 million or 14.6% of revenues in the comparable prior-year period. 2013 has included $5.8 million of amortization compared to $5.7 million in the comparable prior-year period. 2013 has included acquisition cost of $1.4 million primarily related to the acquisition of TriTek and Clear Task compared to $1.8 million related to the acquisition of PointBridge, Nascent, and Northridge in 2012.

Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 increased 36% to $15.9 million from $11.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.50 a share from $0.38 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. Adjusted GAAP earnings per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was $0.81, up 18% from $0.69 for 2012.

Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was 30.5% compared to 38.1% for the comparable prior-year period. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the research and development tax credit for 2012, which was recorded in the first quarter when the law was enacted. The research and development tax credit for 2013 and a tax deduction for U.S. domestic production activities related to 2013 in the last three years, which was recorded in the third quarter of 2013.

We ended the third quarter of 2013 with $16 million in outstanding debt and $5.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our balance sheet continues to leave us very well positioned to execute against our strategic plan. Our days sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 78 days at the end of the third quarter of 2013, which is down from 81 days at the end of the third quarter of 2012. We will continue to focus on keeping DSOs in the 75-day to 80-day range.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jeff for a little more commentary. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. As I mentioned, we're very pleased with the quarter. I've been having a lot of conservations with our leadership team. In fact, we had our annual planning meeting here just a couple of weeks ago, talking about both the end of this year, but also going into next year. And I can tell you that there is solid confidence in the pipeline on an ongoing basis, certainly solid confidence in November and December rounding out or finishing out this year, as you'll see in the guidance. But I'd like to also share that anecdotally everyone is communicating a strong sense of momentum headed into next year. I think that's an important point to make. We're better positioned than we've been in recent memory in terms of how we're ending this year and the platform that it represents going into next year and the growth opportunities around that.

I mentioned CoreMatrix earlier. We talked a little bit last quarter about the strategic importance of growing the Salesforce practice at Perficient. Obviously, everyone is aware cloud computing is big and only getting bigger. And virtually every one of our clients is assessing the opportunity in one fashion or other. Of course, we've been delivering cloud-based solutions for years with other partners, chiefly Microsoft, but others as well. And certainly building a lot of cloud architected platforms and solutions for our customers. But by acquiring Clear Task in May and now CoreMatrix, we've quickly become a very capable Salesforce consulting partner with comprehensive sales and delivery capacity across the entire country.

And our broader sales team is thrilled to be able to offer these services to our existing client base. We've had a lot of clients asking specifically about Salesforce and now we've got that capability. We're already winning deals today at existing clients that we simply couldn't have pursued at the beginning of the year.

It's our goal to become the top SFDC consulting partner in the country much like we've done with our partners Microsoft and IBM. Speaking of IBM, business is booming for us around their entire product stack. We continue to be recognized by that organization for our work. Just yesterday we issued a news release highlighting two awards we received this week at IBM Information On Demand conference in Las Vegas.

We were the sole recipient of IBM's 2013 Worldwide Performance Management Business Partner award and also received an Enterprise Content Management Business Partner Award. Also worth highlighting is our ongoing success within the growth at our GDCs, our Global Development Centers.

Our ending offshore billable head count for the quarter was up 29% year-over-year with our head count in India more than doubling. We talked about Perficient being well-positioned regardless of any immigration reform legislation that may occur and we'll continue to focus on structuring our delivery teams so we can provide a comprehensive range of options through our clients.

So before we get to the Q4 outlook and the balance of 2013, just a quick word to reiterate our plans around M&A. It remains our intent to pursue deals that would add somewhere around $50 million or more in run rate revenues in 2014. There is no guarantees of course, but the pipeline is full, in fact there's very robust activity there in discussions with some of firms right now. So I wouldn't be surprised if we're able to announce something very early next year, it's not even out of the question that we get another deal done this year although more likely early next year.

So finally commenting on Q4 2013 and the balance of the year. Perficient expects its fourth quarter 2013 services and software revenue including reimburse expenses to be in the range of $95.6 million to $100.6 million comprised of $88.3 million and $92.9 million of revenue from services including reimburse expenses and $7.3 million to $7.7 million of revenue from sales of software. The midpoint of the fourth quarter 2013 services revenue guidance represents growth of about 21%, 20.6, to be precise, over the fourth quarter of 2012 services revenue.

We're also nearing our full year 2013 revenue guidance range and moving it up a bit to a range of $372 million to $377 million and raising 2013 adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $8 to $12 from the previously provided range of $3 to $9.

So with that we can open the call up for questions. Operator?

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen [Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon from Needham. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good morning, Jeff and Paul, good job on the quarter.

Thanks, Mayank.

Wanted to dig into the guidance a little bit more for the fourth quarter. If I look at the midpoint of the new guidance range, it is about $2.5 million higher than what you have provided previously, but I would imagine that the contribution from CoreMatrix would be a little bit more. So maybe you could just walk us through how much is CoreMatrix adding to the fourth quarter, what is organic in 4Q and then how much of the growth is from the acquisition?

Yeah. So we only have a stub from CoreMatrix, it's about $2.5 million. The organic growth for the quarter, the midpoint of our services guidance is actually 8% year-over-year, just under 8%, I think it's 7.6% organic. So that's...

Okay.

That's obviously up from – we were at 4.65% this quarter and flattish in the first half of the year and I mentioned early on that we expected a better second half and certainly we got that momentum moving in the right direction.

Okay. That does make sense. So to be clear, the organic growth guidance for 4Q has not changed. The addition to revenue is really from the CoreMatrix deal?

That's right.

Okay. That makes sense. And I wanted to get a sense from you in terms of what are you hearing for next year from your clients? You mentioned that you're upbeat going into next year. But may be just some specific around what are client priorities for 2014, how would that be different from what you saw in 2013, and what that could mean in terms of organic growth trends in 2014 versus 2013?

Well, we continue to see – I mentioned earlier obviously that the momentum among cloud application, some of which as I alluded are custom developed applications where we rebuild an internal cloud or in fact external. But also Salesforce obviously, more Office 365, so more cloud initiatives to be sure, more investments being made there, I think we're well positioned to capture that.

In addition to that we continue to see great opportunities around analytics, both standard BI, Business Intelligence reporting, dash boarding, but also Enterprise Performance Management, so financial analytics. Both on the IBM and Oracle stack, Hyperion and TM1 are both getting some detraction. And TM1, particularly with IBM gaining detraction, we've seen good demand there and like I said, across the board really for BI.

And primarily among the retail set, a lot of interest in customer applications, customer intelligence applications, omni-channel initiatives that some of our retail customers are launching. We're seeing some new revenue being driven there. And also in commerce, you know commerce is a foundational component to omni-channel. So we're seeing good pickup both in IBM commerce platform as well as the Sterling commerce platform.

So I would say, generally it's across the board and the appetite for spend is solid. I wouldn't say it's return to what we were enjoying in the industry in say 2006 or 2007. But still I would say stable continuing steady increase in demand and we're feeling very confident about the year.

I think you're not giving specific guidance on organic growth for next year, but is it safe to say that given the momentum you're seeing that organic growth could continue to accelerate into fiscal 2014 from where you're finishing in fiscal 2013?

That's certainly what we're hoping to see and that's what we're driving to. I mentioned the planning meet we had a couple of weeks ago. And the consensus among the executive team, myself, Kathy, Paul as well as our nine Vice Presidents was that 10% was a very doable number. So that is our goal and that's the goal to lot of our variable compensation will be tied to for a great number of people here. And I think there is even potential upside to that. But it's very early to be talking about that, but I mentioned earlier and I believe this to be true, I don't want to reiterate that, we are better positioned than we've been, I would say, probably since 2006 or 2007 as we're heading into the next year. So we're very optimistic. No guarantees. It is still early, but bookings as well as anecdotal pipeline total et cetera all indicate we've got a good shot at double digit growth next year.

And then finally, just some housekeeping items. May be Paul you could give us what the percentage of revenue was from global delivery, what's the average bill rate was for offshore and also the utilization levels? I didn't see that in the presentation, so I just wanted to get that.

Yeah. So about 4% of revenues is coming from offshore. North American employee utilization was 80% in the quarter. And on the bill rates, give me a second and I can dig out the bill rates in. It was about... in the high 30. Yeah. It is about 37, 38, Mayank.

Okay. And utilization for the global delivery was also like around 70% because this is in recent quarters?

Yeah. Yeah, yes.

Okay.

And that's about – that's about where we try to maintain it, not a lot higher than that. It's a different model, right? They are going to be there already. So we carry more bench there by design.

Great. Thank you. Congrats again.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger of Sidoti. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning, Jeff and Paul. How are you?

I am well, Brian. How are you?

Good. So healthcare, looks like it has been a big top line driver. And so the questions I'd like to ask around Premier. Wondering if you can just update us on some of the statistics of Premier, and may be the customer totals, the revenue contributions and maybe the number of hospitals that are in the pipeline from that channel, if you will?

You know, the revenue contribution remains, I think, steady. It really hasn't changed, I mean, I view that by the way as quite good news because despite that fact, and by the way, I should mention that a lot of the work that we did and even the assets that we built from Premier were actually taken to market and other channels primarily with IBM. So I'd mentioned early on that we were exploring that and we're heading headlong down that path. So we'll continue to work with Premier, but we're also broadening that channel or that market.

That said, we still have – I want to say it looks like about 15 opportunities in that pipeline, totaling as of now about $16 million in the pipeline. We did close some opportunities. I believe we have 11 accounts now. So I think we closed one or two more in the quarter, two more, sorry, in the third quarter. So we do continue to make progress there that we're pleased with but like I said, I think the story is growing beyond Premier.

And then – right, and that makes sense. But I'm curious at the beginning of that relationship when you started working with a hospital, they seemed to in year two and beyond take more services or demanded more service from you. So can we talk about what an existing customer looks like in your experience so far in year one, year two and maybe even year three?

Yeah. It's a good point and it does certainly vary by customer and how we're positioned going in. In some cases I think we'll probably just implement the solution that we developed around that space and likely be done but to your point in many cases and this is true particularly of the larger hospitals who are doing the private or on-premise flavor of that solution. We do have the opportunity to stay on and some of the clients that we started with about three years ago, to your point, we're still working with today and still on a million dollar plus run rate.

Now some of that's customization and continued development around the solution, around the data analytics solution, but some of that also has branched out from that as we've established a relationship and help educate the customer on other services that we can provide, they do expand from there.

So I'd say it's difficult to put a number on it. Couple of million dollars a year and a relationship that's running well and we've got that with a couple of these guys, a couple of – three of them, about $2 million a year on average for the first three years and I would say an ongoing opportunity there around that land and expand model I described earlier.

But as we move forward, we're actually seeing, again more opportunity outside that channel, both for the assets as well as for services that were – in deals that we're landing independent completely of Premier, in some cases, by the way, even with Premier members, but still independent of Premier. And then also on the payer side, our payer experience continues to expand and improve, not only among the blues, but also now more into what we refer to as kind of the private sector.

So we're excited about that. 34% of those bookings by the way, which were up 15% organically year-over-year, third quarter bookings. I'm pretty sure that's a record for us, or darn close to it, and 35% – or 34% of those bookings were in healthcare, which continues to be about 24% or so of revenue. But that delta between revenue and bookings is mostly attributed to the acquisitions that we've done this year and the fact that they're diluting the healthcare component, not in a bad way, but just that they didn't bring healthcare clients.

Great. And last quarter, I think we talked about it before, but little bit more, so we talked about what's going to be sort of a new offering from next year developed a software app, basically, that is much more easily installable at the hospital from these Premier assets. And maybe you can update us was there any sales of that software up in the third quarter and if you look at the fourth quarter software guidance it's going up substantially sequentially, but it's kind of the same year-over-year. So just maybe give us your expectations when you'll start to see while lumpy some of those sales take place?

You know, we're optimistic – none of that's reflected in our software numbers. We're still optimistic that we'll see some opportunities close this quarter, in the fourth quarter, but I still think it's probably more next year. The traction is slower, just I'd say across the board, clients more sitting on their hands and mulling over these decisions.

The good news, I think, on the asset front, and healthcare in general for us again is that IBM has some keen interest in partnering with us, and specifically partnering with us around those assets. And have – we've begun to – begun to explore things, that's as far as I can go with it, but begun to explore some things with them that I think will help drive additional demand, again both for the assets as well as potentially some services around them.

So I still feel good about the opportunity there. We did have some revenue from those this quarter, but it was pretty de minimis or modest. We actually licensed it in sort of a conference room pilot or proof of concept stage at a very modest price. And then the expectation of course is that that will go well and then we'll be able to sell the assets at the full value at a more reasonable price.

And just one last question on the modeling of that. Suppose you book a software license, you said some of them could be as much as $500,000. I think last quarter, maybe I am remembering incorrectly, but whatever the number is, how long – how do you recognize that revenue? Is it a lump sum right away, does it take a couple of quarters once it's installed [indiscernible] (27:02) just give us a sense of how that's – how that runs through the P&L?

We're expecting it will be upfront, that we'll be able to recognize it upfront. But as you know, that will be driven by the specific license agreements that we enter into, which may well vary from customer-to-customer. But it's our desire, and we believe that it's the appropriate accounting as well, and of course, we'll have to support that to the contract, but that – it's an asset, it stands alone, doesn't require the services. So we'll likely able to recognize it upfront.

Yeah. And there may be a component 10% or 15% that's maintenance that will be recognized over time but most of it would be recognized upfront.

Great. I'll get back in the queue. Thank you so much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you for your question. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Peter Heckmann of Avondale Partners. Please proceed.

Good morning, gentlemen. Nice results.

Thanks, Pete. Good morning.

Good morning. Hey, wanted to follow up on services gross margins, which look very, very strong, up significantly year-over-year. Can you talk about the components that went into that year-over-year increase, whether it would be mix domestic versus offshore bill rate, because you really – I don't see that there is a real significant utilization and certainly you're – you talked about that but as well your guidance for the fourth quarter seems to suggest that maybe we won't see quite as much seasonal downturn in services gross margin or perhaps maybe we see more operating leverage in the fourth quarter but a little bit about how you see margin shaking out for the fourth quarter as well?

Yeah, sure. So I think it's actually a combination of those things. I think you're right that utilization wasn't a big factor which again I actually see as a positive. I think we've got some room to improve there. But it is a combination really of the mix of offshore. Offshore this past quarter grew – was at 29% year-over-year. So obviously we're – the offshore work that we're delivering is at about 60%, 65% gross margin. So that's helping to drive that margin up as well as the bill rate increases. So bill rate is up 5% year-over-year, pretty well ahead actually of our goal around bill rate. So where we – I think, expected to drive more gross margin from utilization this year, it has worked out that we're driving more of it through the bill rate increase and utilization. Looks like I said, I think, actually still there is room for improvement on the utilization side.

However, we're not seeing any headwind on increasing bill rates either. I think the value of what we're delivering, the quality and our reputation stands up against competitors that are charging so much more than we do based on a brand differential, and I think that's a kind of an artificial gap that we can continue to fill.

In terms of gross margins in the fourth quarter – third quarter and fourth quarter overall, yes, thankfully, we don't see – we don't expect the seasonal impact that we had last year or that we had in the past.

And I think that's mostly attributable to our growth momentum. The fact is we're able to offset some of what would normally – we'd see in the normal seasonality, because we've got some pretty strong organic growth underlying there. So that's offsetting it. We did do some – a little bit of modification through our PTO policy or vacation policy, that might be influencing it, but I think it's mostly the growth. And again, that's one of the reasons that I am optimistic that we're on that growth curve. We don't see right now any reason to believe that's going to stop and so we should be really well positioned going into January in 2014.

Okay. That makes sense. And then, I missed just the first minute of the call. On software reselling, remind me, was there a change there in terms of the way that you're recognizing or because the mix – what's accounting for the year-over-year increase – the year-over-year decrease besides normal lumpiness, I'm assuming there maybe something more given some of the guidance you gave us in the fourth quarter for that line item?

Yeah. No, it's not. Honestly, it's the same as – there is little difference in recognition. It is just lumpy, quite definitely. Clients are pretty savvy when it comes to buying software, they've been well trained by the vendors. And so they'll – a lot of them will delay until the end of year if they can, because they know everybody's trying to make their number. Oracle has an off fiscal year, it's not even the same as the calendar year. So we see some lumpiness and all that and that's all I would attribute it to. We – and even this quarter, typical fourth quarter experience would be a large software sale. I think our number out there could be a little conservative, that's the way we like to run the business as you know and there is likely upside on the software numbers.

It's one of those deals where $2 million software opportunity can – this is certainly like a one or a zero whether it happens or not and you don't want us to mess up your guidance by missing that.

Fair enough, fair enough. Okay, and then with regard to the organic hiring outlook with utilization running around 80%, do you anticipate ramping up the net net domestic head count addition to last couple of quarters?

You know, I do. I – we've had some room on utilization, but not a lot, actually and of course, 100 basis points that can make it huge difference on margins, but we're going to continue to try drive that number up some. But I do expect us to be ramping up next year. Again if my optimism, based on some facts obviously, comes to fruition and we're seeing that kind of growth numbers or growth expectations that I've shared. I think we'll be doing some significant ramp up in the U.S. on hiring. And I think we're well positioned to do that. The recruiting team is running very nicely, talent acquisition, I should say we've rebranded that and made a lot of efforts around unique types of recruiting where you can really find the people that are not necessarily looking for a job which are often the one you want most. So we've got no concerns about being able to do that, we do expect some ramp up, or I would expect some ramp up into the kind of the growth curve that we've been talking about.

Great. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kinstlinger from Sidoti. Please proceed.

Brian? Brian? Operator, we seem to have a – maybe a technical issue with Brian.

I'll just try it again for you, sorry.

That's okay. Thank you. Okay. Well, we, I think we've lost Brian at least temporarily. I think maybe Mayank's back in queue?

Hello.

Oh! Brian?

Brian is now in the call. Thank you.

Hey. All right.

100 hellos and I am finally heard. Thanks.

Sometimes it's the ones you have to work most for that, that means that [indiscernible] (34:56).

One of the things we haven't talked about a lot of you is international in Europe. And maybe you can update us how much revenue comes from international customers and obviously your divisions from international customers. What we've been hearing a lot from most of the system integrators reporting is Europe is picking up substantially. So I'm wondering if you're thinking about in anyway shape or form, improving your market position to take advantage of that or is there enough opportunity in the U.S. that will remain your core focus?

I think for the time being, the U.S. does remain our core focus. Even at $400 million, we're really relatively small in what's an $80 billion market here. So I think there's plenty of opportunity for us to continue to play here. I think the – like Forrester is calling for 7% to 8% increase in spending this year in IT services. And along the way I think we can gain share as well. So we've got the opportunity of general growth plus the opportunity to continue to gain share. And with our goal of double digit growth, I think we can realize that in the U.S. and not take on the additional management risk of necessarily expanding outside the U.S. right now.

And that isn't to say that we're not discussing that and looking at other opportunities be it Europe, Latin America or Asia, and we'll probably be addressing that in the not too distant future. But there is nothing imminent on the doorstep right now.

Two more questions. The first on acquisitions, have you at all changed your plan on how you will pay for them in terms of the composition of cash versus stock? I think recently it has changed just a little bit. So I'm just curious maybe you could articulate where you are right now with that?

Sure. So generally no, but your observation is correct. In the last two deals really and particularly this last larger Salesforce deal, we did use a higher cash component on the upfront piece. You know that was to be competitive. Frankly, Salesforce shops are hard to come by. And it's typically a competitive environment to do those acquisitions.

So we believe right now by the way that we're satisfied with this platform for growing our SFDC practice going forward. So as of right now and never say never, but as of right now we don't have any immediate plans to go out and acquire another Salesforce shop. I think that phenomenon, my point is, is unique to the Salesforce right now. Maybe if you went and bought a Workday shop, you'd find the same thing, but for the most part, we'll stick to our knitting and our typical model of about 60% cash, 40% stock.

One thing I'd add is even in these deals, as Jeff mentioned, there is more cash up front, but in the earn outs, there's probably a bigger proportion of that stock. So over the term of the deal, if they achieve a full earn out, it's really consistent with our overall structure.

And before you made that acquisition for the Salesforce shop, what – did you have any Salesforce revenue or what percentage was it?

Very small. We had – we've done two Salesforce acquisitions this year, one in May and one in October. Prior to the one in May, we did have a small Salesforce capability, but it was small, half a dozen, 10 people, so minimal revenue, a few hundred thousand dollars.

I guess another way to ask, when you end the year and you have all these businesses integrated, what percentage of revenue is Salesforce, 3%, is it 5%?

Probably 5% or 6% is what we expect.

That's great. And then the last question I've got I think I ask this every quarter just to be sure, the fourth quarter guidance, peer services excluding reimbursables, I just want to give a sense of how much, maybe how much reimbursable is included in that number, just something [indiscernible] (38:40)?

I think it's 4 – it's just about $4.25 million.

Of pre-tax.

Yeah. And then like I said, you'll get while the math on that as I mentioned earlier is 7.6% organic on the net services.

Great. Thanks so much, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon of Needham. Please proceed.

Thank you. Jeff, just a few follow-ups. So on the margins, as we look into next year, it is still the plan to expand gross margins, 100 basis points to 200 basis points and then we should get about 50 basis points to 100 basis points in EBITDA market expansion over the course of the year assuming that the environment stays fairly resilient?

Yes. I think those are reasonable expectations and those are exactly what I have in mind. We would be running close to about 100 bps on EBITDA right now, if not for the investment – the investment we made in the assets, which we talked earlier in the year. So net of that new investment this year, it's close to about 100 bps improvement. And I do expect similar results next year.

By the way, I'll say that if we are able to achieve the double-digit growth that we're shooting for, I think that there is upside to that. Margins always expand more rapidly and margin expansion is easier when you're growing at a good clip, say 8% to 10% organic. In that environment, utilization will definitely tick up even if you try to keep it down. And that all means that, like I said, gross margins will accelerate even beyond I think the levels that we're talking about.

And did I hear you right on the call earlier that you don't expect the usual seasonality in the fourth quarter this year and maybe that also transfers into next year, where there will be more, the growth will be more even spread across the year?

Yeah. I think – I think this year in particular what I said was that the growth momentum, the organic growth momentum that we have or had, and still have coming into the fourth quarter is offsetting. So if we were – if we were growing the same pace we were in the first half of this year, flat to slightly up, I think you'd see more impact from the seasonality. I think we're offsetting some of that seasonal impact given that the accelerated growth curve that we're on right now. Whether that repeats next year or not remains to be seen, so it's so far off, but I'd be optimistic that we can maintain this for some time to come.

Okay. And two more quick ones, the tax rate, Paul, did you say the tax rate hold at 36%, I'm not sure I heard any comments around that, just wanted to be clear.

Yeah. So the tax rate, there was some one-time stuff in there for this domestic production credit in the third quarter and we're looking at roughly an adjusted tax rate of around 37% in Q4.

37%, okay. And in terms of share buybacks, does that slow down now that you probably [indiscernible] (41:41) doing another deal as you mentioned later this year, early next year, or should we expect there going to be share buybacks?

We're going to continue to be pretty aggressive on it in dollars. I think you're spot on is cash applied to acquisition sticks up, we'll probably back off a little bit but you know acquisitions are lumpy. So we'll get more aggressive in between them.

We've got what, $12 million left on the authorization and that authorization goes through next year. It's my expectation actually to exhaust that. So – and potentially go back for more afterwards. Although the stock is obviously coming into a little more fair value although I still think it's a bargain, but we need to continue to buyback, I think to offset the shares that we're issuing through acquisitions to help with the accretion there and as well the restricted stock awards that we issue to management.

Great. Thank you for the color.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you for your questions, ladies and gentlemen. I would now like to turn the call over to Jeff Davis, closing statements.

Well, thank you, all again for joining today. As you can see, things are very well on track and we're optimistic about Perficient today and in the future. And we look forward to talking again to deliver our year end results and our 2014 guidance in a few months. Thank you.

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. That concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Good day.