Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — President, Chief Executive Officer & Chairman, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Mayank Tandon — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Frank C. Atkins — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Joan K. Tong — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q2 2017 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Chairman and CEO, Jeff Davis. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. With me on the call today is Paul Martin, our CFO. I'd like to thank you for your time this morning. As it is typical, we've got about 10 to 15 minutes of prepared comments, after which, we will open the call up for questions. But before we proceed, Paul, would you please read the Safe Harbor statement.

Thanks Jeff, and good morning everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements and we encourage you to refer to the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussions.

At times during this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, which is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We have also posted a slide deck, which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP goals to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Well, once again, good morning and thanks for joining. We're excited to share our second quarter results with you today. We've talked for a couple of quarters now about our intent and ability to drive margins higher, and during the second quarter we did just that. Services margin rose a full 200 basis points in the quarter, and we expect sequential margin expansion in Q3 and similar year-over-year results in both third and fourth quarter this year.

Let me give you this morning if not just contain some margins and profitability, our bookings momentum is very strong right now, in fact the month of June represented a single largest booking month in our history, and it was nearly 25% greater than January 2016, which previously represented our strongest month, that drove a record Q2 bookings, total up sequentially year-over-year substantially.

On the yields of that performance, third quarter is off to a great start with record bookings for the month of July. Those successes having our sales organization operating with great momentum and with a real energy, enthusiasm and growing sense of confidence right now; things are very exciting in Perficient.

One of the key contributors to June's record bookings was the signing of our first $20 million plus Statement of Work; a milestone win for our digital and healthcare teams at a world renowned healthcare provider.

And then on the yields of that success we went and executed $25 million win in the automotive industry in July at an existing client, and extending us well into 2019, in fact, both of those engagements and a lot of these bookings extend into 2019 and produce a backlog heading into 2018 will be very strong.

Digital transformation is driving mission critical business and technology investments and in many ways of mandatory enterprise survival. Across every industry, businesses must develop faster than ever. Companies have a choice, they must [indiscernible] (03:36) themselves for the competitors and consumers [ph] well (03:38). And [indiscernible] (03:40) approach, unparalleled portfolio, unequal talent and undeniable value is resonating strongly in the market. Digital, cloud, AI, IoT; these disciplines are driving tremendous spend and Fortune 1000 enterprises are increasingly realizing that Perficient is a premier provider in this space. We're just beginning to capitalize on that awareness.

As I mentioned in the last call and as evidenced by the pursuit and winning of larger and longer term work, our brand and reach is building and our move-up market is well underway. I'll touch on several other exciting notable topics including our outlook for Q3 as after Paul shares the financial details. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Total revenues for the second quarter of 2017 were $117 million, a 6% decrease compared to the year ago quarter. Services revenues were $104.8 million for the second quarter of 2017, excluding reimbursable expenses, a decrease of 3% compared to the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin for the second quarter 2017 excluding stock compensation and reimbursable expenses were 37.4%, an increase from 35.4% in the second quarter of 2016. As Jeff mentioned, we are expecting year-over-year margin improvement to continue into the second half of the year.

SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation increased to $23.9 million in the second quarter of 2017 from $23.2 million in the comparable prior year quarter. SG&A excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue increased to 20.4% from 18.7% in the second quarter of 2016. EBITDAS for the second quarter of 2017 was $16.9 million or 14.4% of revenues compared to $16.5 million or 13.3% of revenues in the second quarter of 2016. We are also expecting year-over-year EBITDAS margins continue to improve in the second half of the year. The second quarter includes amortization expense of $3.5 million compared to $3.3 million in the comparable prior year quarter.

An adjustment of $0.6 million was recorded during the three months ended June 30, 2017, which represents a net impact of the fair value adjustments to the RAS and Bluetube revenue and earning-based continued consideration liability in addition to the accretion of the fair value estimate for the revenue and earnings-based contingent consideration related to the acquisitions of Bluetube, RAS and Clarity.

Our effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2017 was 68.4% compared to 34.4% for the second quarter of 2016. The increase in the effective rate is primarily due to the core earnings of the Company's Chinese subsidiary that are no longer permanently reinvested.

Net income decreased 59% to $2.4 million for the second quarter 2017 from $5.8 million in the second quarter of 2016. Diluted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.07 for the second quarter of 2017 from $0.17 in the second quarter of 2016.

Adjusted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.29 for the second quarter of 2017 from $0.28 in the second quarter of 2016. Again, adjusted GAAP EPS is defined as GAAP earnings per share plus amortization non-cash stock compensation transaction cost and the fair value adjustment consideration and the impact of other infrequent or unusual transactions net of related taxes divided by absolutely outstanding shares from that period. Our earnings billable head count at June 30, 2017 was 2,497 including 2,270 billable consultants and 225 subcontractors, and SG&A head count was 453.

Now, let me turn to the year-to-date results. Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2017 were $228 million, a decrease of 8% over the comparable prior year period. Services revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2017, excluding reimbursed expenses was $205.7 million, a decrease of 5% over the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin for the six months ended June 30, 2017, excluding stock-com reversible expenses increased to 36.8% from 35.7% in the prior year period.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation decreased to $47.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2017 from $47.7 million in the comparable prior year period. SG&A expense excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue was 20.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2017, compared to 19.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2016.

EBITDAS for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was $31 million compared to $33.7 million in the comparable prior year quarter. EBITDAS as a percentage of revenues was 13.6% in both periods. For the six months ended June 30, 2017, included amortization of $7.2 million compared to $6.2 million in the comparable prior year period.

An adjustment of $0.4 million was recorded during the six months ended June 30, 2017, which represents a net impact in the fair market value adjustment to the RAS and Bluetube revenue and earnings-based contingent consideration in addition to the accretion of the fair value estimate for the revenue and earning-based contingent consideration related to the Enlighten, Bluetube, RAS and Clarity acquisitions.

Our effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2017 was 57.9% compared to 32.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The increase in the effective rate was again primarily due to the foreign earnings of the companies Chinese subsidiary that are no longer permanently reinvested.

Net income for the six months decreased to $5.1 million from $11.2 million in the six months ended June 30, 2016 and diluted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.15 from $0.32 for the six months ended June 30, 2016.

Adjusted GAAP earnings per share decreased to $0.52 for the six months ended June 30, 2017 from $0.56 for the six months ended June 30, 2016. The company refinanced its line of credit during the quarter reducing our rates, extending our debt maturity to 2022 [indiscernible] (09:41), we believe that the currently available funds, access to capital from our credit facility and cash flow generated from operations leave us well positioned to fund future growth.

We ended the second quarter of 2017 with $68 million in outstanding debt, an increase of $36 million from year-end, the increase was primarily due to the acquisition of RAS and Clarity during 2017. Our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable were 73 days at June 30, 2017; that compares favorably to the 79 days at June 30, 2016 and December 31, 2016.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff for a little more commentary. Jeff?

Thanks Paul. Little more detail on bookings. We sold 41 deals, greater than $0.5 million during the second quarter and they average $2 million each, and that compares to 49 in the first quarter of this year averaging $1.4 million each and 44 in the second quarter of last year 2016 that average $1.3 million each. So I want to just highlight again, that's a $600,000 increase and an average of deal size sequentially, and a $700,000 increase year-over-year; so that's about a 50% increase per deal on deal size compared to last year. During the quarter, health sciences, financial services, automotive and retail consumer goods verticals represented 62% of revenue.

Healthcare was at 27% of revenue, financial services 15%, automotive 10% and retail consumer goods at 10% of revenue. On all those sectors we see a strong currently and going forward. We're expecting a strong second half in particularly for health sciences.

Our bookings during the second quarter were up more than 30% year-over-year in that industry. Some of our competitors were reporting challenges and slowdowns in the space, where we have significant momentum right now, we continue to take share. We've also become a destination of choice for industry [indiscernible] (11:36). During the quarter we landed a highly regarded health scientist sellar from one of our largest competitors.

Speaking of our sales organization, other success during the quarter was the promotion of Patrick Schwierking to Vice President, Sales. Pat's been one of our most successful sellers and sales leaders for over a decade here at Perficient; a guy who has been in the trenches for many of our largest wins and will remain central to key pursuits going forward and client relationships. We're excited and fortunate to have Pat move into this role and provide leadership to our entire sales team.

Also worth highlighting is that we continue to grow the offshore component of our business. In fact, during the second quarter our offshore revenue was the highest it's ever been in dollars, as well as on a percent of revenue basis. As we talked about before, our offshore margins are very strong and our differentiated approach is helping us win [indiscernible] (12:26). We expect the offshore portion of our business to continue to build at a faster rate than our overall growth.

And finally, I'm sure you all saw the news of our late June acquisition of Clarity Consulting, it's a fantastic Chicago-based firm; we're really excited about bringing on board. Integration there is underway, we're excited about the clients and capabilities they've brought. They are doing really impressive things around digitals, specifically IoT, self-service kiosks and similar types of solutions. It also brought some really impressive intellectual property we're excited about, which is a contact center product leveraging Skype for Business.

They've approximately $27 million in revenue, this represents one of the larger deals we've done and we'd like to get at least one more deal done this year and remain in active discussion with several firms. As we stated before, our goal is $50 million to $60 million of acquired revenue run rate and we're at about $40 million right now.

So turning the attention now to our expectations for the third quarter, Perficient expects its third quarter 2017 services and software revenue including reimbursed expenses to be in the range of $120.5 million to $134 million comprised of $114.3 million to $121.7 million of revenue from services including reimbursed expenses and $6.2 million to $12.3 million of revenue from sales of software. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.32 to $0.34.

We're nearing our previously provided full year guidance to a range of $490 million to $510 million and narrowing our adjusted earnings per share guidance to a range of $1.19 to $1.29. And I want to note here that we continue to see a pretty significant and rapid [ph] makeshift (14:09) to offshore as I highlighted earlier, we're performing more work on a remote basis and we're also seeing the industry obviously rapidly shifting to SaaS instead of on-premise software licensing.

So each of those trends creates a modest headwind on top line overall, and we're certainly seeing less reimbursed expenses, and again, lower software revenue bookings as SaaS software is booked in a completely different manner.

So we'll continue to see those come down, the nice part of that and good news there is that it will actually create margin expansion which we've already put up some nice margin expansion on services, so that will help overall as well.

Operator, can we take the questions? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Mayank Tandon with Needham. Your line is open.

Yeah, good morning. Jeff, I wanted to just probe a little bit deeper into the bookings trends; so obviously a good sign that you're seeing record bookings trends, but why isn't that translating into maybe improved top line performance in the second half, even despite the headwinds that you just mentioned regarding offshore in terms of the revenue? And then as we look into 2018, should we see a better uptick in terms of organic trends; as these bookings now convert to revenue?

Yeah, absolutely. I think – well, I think they are yielding some results, as the mid-point of our guidance for this quarter is back to flat. And I expect it in the fourth quarter if the trend continues, we'll be somewhere in the mid-single digits, perhaps upper single digits.

The strongest correlation of bookings to revenue is about a four or five rolling month, so I expect that the surge in bookings that we enjoyed at the end of the second quarter and beginning here in the third quarter, we'll have a greatest impact in the fourth quarter, and leading into 2018. We did have some projects delays on some of these larger engagements in the quarter, actually we're only about 1% or 2% I think below in the midpoint of our guidance. And like I said, overall, for the year I think we're still within 1% of our original organic guidance and I do expect organic growth to return materially in the fourth quarter and going into 2018.

Great. And then what is driving the bookings improvement, is it really more sales execution on your side? Is it industry uptick, you're seeing just more deals and the conversion rate is picking up; what is driving the uptick of bookings?

I think the, yeah, I mean – I think the markets are little healthier, but I think it's less that and honestly, I think we're [ph] certainly finally (16:58) seeing some fruition of the investments that we've made over the last couple of years in our sales team in terms of the organization structure, the additional capacity and focusing on an appropriately balanced incentive program. So, I think that's actually beginning to pay dividends now, and I think that's going to be sustainable.

And like I said, while we see some improvement in the market, I think another component to it is our brand building and our differentiation for our clients; the reference ability is fantastic, we're very unique in our ability to deliver true end-to-end capabilities around digital transformation, the agencies can't do it, the traditional technology shops can't do it, it's something we've been doing for years and we've invested a lot in that over the last couple of years, I mean [ph] they are a very (17:49) formidable portfolio from beginning to end as it relates to digital and I can tell you that's what's resonating, that's what won us $20 million engagement in June that I alluded to, at an healthcare provider and helps us continue to win and sustain these relationships.

Just to come back real quick to bookings, our Top 50 accounts right now are on a run rate to growing almost 20% year-over-year. So, I think, as we talked up before, we're very focused on our land and expand strategy, so that I think validates and speaks to the power of that. Obviously, we've got programs around the next 50 to 100 as well to accelerate growth there, but I think we see good things coming and as I said before, the backlog that we've build up to be strong bookings should have us really well=positioned finishing out the year and going into 2018.

Great. Thank you for the color.

Thanks, Mayank.

Thank you. Your next question comes from Frank Atkins with SunTrust. Your line is open.

Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to ask what was the organic growth rate for the quarter?

Good morning, Frank. Yeah, it was down about 7%. And again, as our guidance for Q3 has this about flat; so good sequential growth and then beginning to pick up some year-over-year growth.

Okay, great. And then can you talk a little bit more about Clarity in terms of the growth and the margin for that business? And then is that included in guidance?

It is included. And it's early to predict the growth [ph] oblique (19:33) there. It has good momentum. It had good momentum since we began diligence, we see that continuing, in fact, there's fantastic synergies really between some of the skills that they bring to the table around custom development and a few other areas in terms of devices, IoT, that I mentioned earlier that we're able to plug right into our channels. So we should see considered using cross-selling there, likewise, I think we've got some folks already working on a couple of their projects; so good movement there. In terms of their margins, they are in-line with Perficient, probably a little above our average.

Okay, great. And last one from me; can you talk a little bit about average bill rate. What's the impact of Clarity there? What do you see in terms of the pricing environment and your ability to drive average bill rate up going forward?

Yeah, Clarity's bill rate is above our average, so that will be accretive to the bill rates, but we've also driven ABR up organically about 1.5% year-to-date which is – our goal was 2% to 3% across the year, so we're on-track or moving nicely to get there; with some help in the second half we should be able to, that's one of the things that's contributed to the margin expansion along with the improved utilization at 80%.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Frank.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Joan Tong with Sidoti & Company. Your line is open.

Good morning. And I just have a couple of questions here. And Jeff, can you mention – can you talk about like the general operating environment out there; you said that it improved a lot of bit, but really [ph] debunking (21:23) the increases because of your sales execution. I'm more interested on the healthcare front given a lot of headlines regarding [ph] AECA (21:32), a lot of uncertainties; any color would be helpful?

Yeah, absolutely. There is always uncertainty in healthcare and obviously the geopolitical environment or the political environment, but we're seeing good strength, we had fantastic bookings in the second quarter in healthcare, I mean up substantially year-over-year and on a relative basis, our revenue is about 27% in Q2 around health sciences. The bookings in health science is made up like 40%, 50% of our bookings in the quarter.

So we're seeing great demand there, I'm telling – I'd will tell you that I think the reason for that is what I said before about digital transformation. I think we're uniquely positioned, we've been in healthcare for several years now, so we've got the domain expertise around the industry, but with healthcare companies, both [indiscernible] (22:24) are doing now is addressing the shift in consumerism in healthcare; so we're able to combine our digital capabilities, our agency capabilities, our user-center design capabilities with that integration in technology capability and provide some – exactly what these guys need under one roof, so they have to [indiscernible] (22:45) to multiple shops.

So, I think that's really resonating and we're really building a significant brand in healthcare as well. So, I would say that we stayed away from sort of the back office, we never implemented EMR, we've done a lot with analytics and patient analytics using EMR data, but we were never an EMR implementer and I think that's what these guys see – the competitors are seeing softness in is around the back office and I greatly think if they don't have the skills that we do to address the consumer-patient facing solutions that these guys are seeking right now to stay competitive.

Okay. Okay. Thank you. And then regarding like the focus of winning larger and longer work, and you said you're developing a backlog; I'm just wondering how much [indiscernible] (23:33) it is, I can only imagine, but it is still pretty like small in terms of the mix in any given quarter between revenue coming from backlog versus term business and maybe you can talk about like the pipeline of larger deals and how you see going forward that mix like term versus backlog, maybe over like a medium or longer term period of time? Thank you.

Sure. And in fact, that's what ensure the duration of our engagements. Clearly the Top 50 accounts – I should say contracts, I mean we gave them, it's supposed to be clear in these Top 50 accounts, these relationships are six-year old on an average, maybe they've been around longer than that, and obviously some fall off [indiscernible] (24:22), and yet we continue to grow, it was 10% and even 20% year-to-date right now in that space. So it's a very good thing, obviously the more we can have in backlog, the less we have to worry about replacing, so it gives us a nice table platform to operate from. Right now the snapshot of backlog in – from bookings in the second quarter going into 2018 is actually up about 30% year-over-year. Keep in mind, this is a project based business and so that's a fairly low basis or fairly small basis, but I do think that's a meaningful indicator.

Okay. All right, thank you guys.

Thanks, Joan.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Jeff Davis for closing remarks.

All right, well, thank you all for joining us today and very excited about the uplift and looking very much forward to demonstrating strong Q3 in our call in 90 days. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you all may disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.