Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Davis — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Paul E. Martin — Chief Financial Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Thomas J. Hogan — Chief Operating Officer, Perficient, Inc.
Maggie Nolan — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Kyle Peterson — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Surinder Thind — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Brian Kinstlinger — Analyst, Alliance Global Partners
Vincent A. Colicchio — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Jack Vander Aarde — Analyst, Maxim Group LLC
Allen Klee — Analyst, National Securities Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Q4 Full Year 2019 Perficient Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Jeff Davis, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you very much. With me on the call this morning are Paul Martin, our CFO; Tom Hogan, our COO. I want to thank you for your time and we look forward to our call. Obviously, we have about 10, 15 minutes of prepared comments. After which, we'll open up the call for questions.

Before we proceed, Paul, will you read the Safe Harbor statement, please?

Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. Some of the things we will discuss in today's call concerning future company performance will be forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws. Actual results may materially differ from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. And we encourage you to refer the additional information contained in our SEC filings concerning factors that could cause those results to be different than contemplated in today's discussions. [indiscernible]

(00:01:18) this call, we will refer to adjusted EPS. Our earnings press release, including a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP is posted on our website at www.perficient.com. We've also posted a slide deck which includes a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP guidance to the most directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP on our website under Investor Relations. Jeff?

Thanks, Paul. Once again, thanks for joining. We're pleased to be with you this morning to discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2019 results as well as provide an initial outlook on 2020. In many ways, 2019, which represented the 20th anniversary of our listing as a public company, was a milestone year for Perficient. A broad expansion of several major client relationships and our success gaining [indiscernible] (00:02:11) new customers drove double-digit revenue growth and strong margin expansion that resulted in earnings that exceeded the high end of our original expectations by 17%.

Our strategic focus on the continued rapid buildup and leveraging of our global delivery teams contributed to our performance. As you're likely aware, we more than tripled our space in India during the year and are hiring great talent aggressively there to meet that demand. In fact, our offshore revenue grew materially in every quarter during the year on both an annual and sequential basis. During the year, our offshore revenue increased more than 20% and in the fourth quarter was up greater than 30%. [indiscernible] (00:02:49) matching or exceeding most of our more offshore or [indiscernible] (00:02:52) competitors.

Tom will talk a little bit later about our success during the quarter winning large deals. Then I'll share now that December represented our largest bookings month ever. And then in January, we exceeded the December number. So, obviously, we're off to a great start in terms of bookings. And we're proud of the performance and all that we accomplished in 2019 and head into 2020 with a lot of momentum and optimism because the world's largest enterprises and biggest brands are embracing Perficient as the digital consultancy they can depend on to imagine, create, engineer and grow their businesses.

Our agility, nimbleness and flexibility differentiate us from competitors, and our pragmatic and practical approach delivers value quickly, and that routinely enables us to extend with clients. We think big, start smart and move fast and customers love it.

A couple of examples I want to share with you, we continue to work with a leading financial services provider and provide customers with a more connected investment experience. We've been involved in several innovative projects including enabling conversational commerce [indiscernible] (00:03:56) cross-platform integration of chat bots which provides customers with timely information at their fingertips across multiple devices.

We also recently extended our multiyear multimillion dollar agreement with a private health insurance company to transform their mobile and member [indiscernible] (00:04:12) experience. The multifaceted project includes a redesign and new mobile app and the integration of a sophisticated home delivery medication service that simplifies the process of ordering, purchasing, tracking and refilling medications.

We also continue our decade plus partnership with a leading global automotive manufacturer to develop and deliver innovative digital solutions across the business in its multiple divisions. Most recently, we redesigned and re-platform their global dealer portal incorporating an enhanced search capability that improves the ability for dealers to find the information that they need. And while we continue to gain and grow relationships with the biggest and best enterprises on the planet, true economic engines of our domestic and global economies.

We're also focused on expanding and enhancing our portfolio to support them. On that note, we're excited to have one acquisition complete this year MedTouch, a great group, highly regarded, one already helping us win additional work. And we're in later stage discussions with a couple of other firms [ph] and are hopeful some things will be – pretty excited about what come (00:05:15) together here in the first half of 2020.

With that, I'm going to turn the call over to Paul who will share the financial results and details for the fourth quarter and full year. Paul?

Thanks, Jeff. Services revenues were $143.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2019 and 11% increase over the comparable prior year period. Services gross margin percentage for the fourth quarter of 2019 excluding reimbursable expenses and stock compensation increased 40 basis points to 39.9% compared to the prior period. SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased to $30.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 from $29.9 million in the comparable prior year period. SG&A excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue decreased to 21.3% from 22.7% in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2019 was $26.5 million or 18.3% of revenues compared to $21.7 million or 16.4% of revenues in the fourth quarter of 2018. The fourth quarter included amortization expense of $4 million compared to $4.3 million in the prior period. Net interest expense for the fourth quarter of 2019 increased to $1.9 million from $1.8 million.

Our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2019 was 14.2% compared to 22% for the fourth quarter of 2018. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the increase in tax benefits recognized related to share-based compensation deductions compared to the prior-year period.

Net income increased 58% to $11.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2019 from $7.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2018. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $0.30 a share for the fourth quarter of 2019 from $0.23 in the fourth quarter of 2018. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $0.58 a share for the fourth quarter of 2019 from $0.47 in the fourth quarter of 2018.

See the press release for a full reconciliation to GAAP earnings. I'll now turn to the full year results. Services revenues were $561.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, a 14% increase over the prior year. Services gross margin percentage for the year ended December 31, 2019, excluding reimbursed expenses and stock compensation, increased 170 basis points to 39.2%.

SG&A expense excluding stock compensation increased $122.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $108.3 million in the prior year. SG&A expenses excluding stock compensation as a percentage of revenue was $21.7 million which is consistent with the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $95 million, or 16.8% of revenues, compared to $76.5 million, or 15.3% of revenues in the prior year. The year ended December 31 included $16.2 million of amortization compared to $16.4 million in the prior year. Net interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased to $7.4 million [indiscernible] (00:08:25) in the prior year primarily due to noncash amortization of debt discount and issuance cost related to the company's convertible senior notes that were issued in September of 2018.

Our effective tax rate for the year was 22.6% compared to 24.1% in the prior year. Net income increased 51% to $37.1 million for 2019 from $24.6 million in 2018. Diluted GAAP earnings per share increased to $1.15 for the year ended December 31, 2019 from $0.73 in 2018. Adjusted earnings per share increased to $2.07, or a 30% increase, compared to the $1.59 in 2018. [indiscernible] (00:09:10) head count at December 31, 2019 was 3,138 including 2,904 billable consultants and 234 subcontractors, and the SG&A head count was 550.

Our outstanding debt net of unamortized debt discount and deferred issuance cost as of December 31, 2019 was $124.7 million. We also had an initial $70.7 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2019. Our balance sheet continues to leave us very well-positioned to execute on our strategic plan. Our day sales outstanding on accounts receivable was 71 days at the end of the fourth quarter, which is consistent with the fourth quarter of 2018.

I'll now turn the call over to Tom Hogan for a little more commentary. Tom?

Thanks, Paul. Good morning, everybody. As Jeff mentioned earlier, [indiscernible] (00:10:01) on top of that, our pipeline remained strong. As quickly [indiscernible] (00:10:05) we're finding and pursuing new opportunities. In fact, right now, we're tracking more than a dozen opportunities larger than $5 million with a few of those having $10 million plus potential. And again, that's on the [ph] heels (00:10:17) of a strong fourth quarter bookings and a great January bookings.

We booked 65 deals greater than $500,000 during the fourth quarter of 2019, that compares to 49 deal $500,000 and greater during the fourth quarter of 2018. Additionally, deal size of those engagements was up year-over-year, [indiscernible] (00:10:36) wins and larger wins.

North American [ph] AVR (00:10:40) was $149 million over the fourth quarter consistent with third quarter results, up $3 or 2% on an annual basis. As we've routinely mentioned on these calls, we believe opportunity remains for us to continue to increase rates gradually over time, closing the GAAP that exist between Perficient and some of our larger competitors.

Utilization during the quarter was 78%, a bit lower than we would like, but it was something [indiscernible] (00:11:05) given the Christmas holiday fell on Wednesday last year which of course influences not only our colleagues playing decisions but oftentimes our client availability as well. As you know, we're very active in monitoring that metric and we [ph] seek demand for (00:11:18) business closer to 80% utilization.

While our diversification across industries has been a strategic contributor to our success and has mitigated concentration risk over the years, our deep strength in health sciences which represents 32% of revenues during the quarter has routinely and certainly enabled us to build deep roots and strong reputation in that vertical. And while it was technically Q1 2020 as Jeff mentioned, we're thrilled to add our capabilities with the early January addition of MedTouch. It's a great firm focused on patient acquisitions, customer experience, patient acquisitions and loyalty and physician marketing.

And as Jeff mentioned, integration began immediately. Collectively, we've already won significant work we might otherwise not have. The business has strong momentum right now. We're outthinking, outhustling, outperforming others in space, and we're gaining share.

And with that, I'll turn things back to Jeff for the first quarter and full year 2020 outlook.

Well, thanks, Tom. So, in summary, we continue to fire our main cylinders and succeed on several fronts. As we've highlighted, we're winning new logos, gaining share and systematically building a much larger and more powerful business. We feel great about the future and our trajectory.

Perficient expects its first quarter 2020 revenue to be in the range of $143 million to $149 million. First quarter GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.25 to $0.28. First quarter adjusted earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.49 to $0.52. Perficient [indiscernible] (00:12:47) 2020 – full year 2020 revenue guidance range of $610 million to $640 million, a full year 2020 GAAP earnings per share guidance range of $1.36 to $1.51, and a full year 2020 adjusted earnings per share guidance range of $2.30 to $2.45.

So, with that, we can open up the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Maggie Nolan with William Blair. You may proceed with your question.

Hi. Thank you. So, I wanted to understand how you came into the year for the initial 2020 guidance. Is there any level of conservatism baked into the guidance related to macro events or any broader slowdown, any change in kind of how you put that together versus 2019, and then what is the organic component embedded within that expectation as well?

Sure. So some of the basis for it is the [ph] breakout (00:13:58) that we experienced last year. And we expect that that growth trajectory is going to continue throughout the year, the guidance implies that. The organic range of this guidance for Q1 is...

For Q1, it's [indiscernible] (00:14:15) [indiscernible]

(00:14:16)

And [indiscernible] (00:14:17) for the year. So we're – I would say there's a little bit baked in there as well or what we're seeing as it relates to corona, but really not much. We're not really that impacted by it. So for the most part, it's just [indiscernible] (00:14:31) seasonality. A lot of clients [indiscernible] (00:14:34) to the year. So that's reflected here as well.

Okay. Thank you. And then on the margin side of things, you've talked about the various levers that you have. We've talked about kind of that normalized utilization range that we should be expecting. What are you expecting in the way of the expansion of the adjusted EBITDA level kind of on a go-forward basis? And where is that really coming from in the business when you look at gross margin versus what you can do at the SG&A level?

Yeah. I think guidance implies like 100 to 200 basis points expansion this year of EBITDA, and some of that will come from rate improvement as we had last year where our goal's going to be similar 2% to 3% rate increase. We did manage to achieve 2% across the year last year. But the other major factor that I do want to talk about and highlight is offshore. And as I mentioned in the earlier part of the call, our offshore grew over 20% last year, 21% across the year. It actually over 30% in the fourth quarter. We enjoy over 50% gross margin in network and we're going to continue to emphasize that growth even though it may represent a little bit of a headwind to top line revenue, it's the right thing to do for the business and as we got an advantage there and that we've been digital offshore, I think, actually ahead a lot of our competition. That's why again, you can see us growing that piece of our business at a pace at or above most of our competition there that drives offshore.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Mayank Tandon with Needham. You may proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning. This is actually Kyle Peterson on for Mayank. Thanks for taking the questions. I just want to talk a little bit on M&A. I know you guys have closed MedTouch already. You guys mentioned that you have some stuff kind of in the hopper here in discussion. Is there anything particularly you guys are looking for whether it's additional capabilities. I think in the past, you guys have talked a little bit about potentially pursuing [indiscernible] (00:16:53) options, just kind of want to see what you guys are looking at in prioritizing from M&A?

Yeah. Good question. I think everything that we target in terms of acquisitions is going to have some digital element to it. So, [indiscernible] (00:17:10) but you touched on another area that we're really excited about and have been working for some time on finding a good fit and that's nearshore. So, we do have some things in the hopper in both digital and nearshore that hopefully we'll get done here in the next couple of months. It's very possible that by the end of the first half, we could have already achieved our goal for the year which is about $50 million of run rate revenue.

Great. That's helpful. And then just one quick follow-up. I know you guys have been scaling on digital and your offshoring efforts. Just want to see how the talent acquisition and retention is trending. Are you seeing any increased competition, change in attrition rates or are things pretty stable on that front?

We enjoy great retention. Overall, for the company, I think we're in the high-teens which is about where we like to be. We like it below [ph] 20. But frankly, 15 (00:18:16) I think is actually a healthy number, so somewhere in [ph] 15 to 20 (00:18:22) range. But I'll tell you [ph] offshore (00:18:24) our retention rates are phenomenal, far better than our competitors. Our offshore attrition is about 15% which is I think half roughly or at least the competition is in the mid-20s. So we're having great success both in terms of attracting talent and retaining in all of our locations in [indiscernible] (00:18:44).

All right. That's helpful color. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Surinder Thind with Jefferies. You may proceed with your question.

Good morning. I would just like to revisit the guidance for roughly the 5% to 10% organic growth. Can you provide a little bit more color on the bottom end of that range versus the high end in the sense that when I look back over previous commentary, my impression was that the firm would be able to generally consistently generate closer to the high end of that range.

Yeah. That's our goal. And I just contrast this against last year's guidance, initial guidance as well where I believe the midpoint of our organic growth was around 6%. We ended up delivering almost 11% or right around 11%. So first and foremost, I'd say the guidance reflects our typical approach of working hard to under-promise and over-deliver. And again, the 10%, the 10% plus sustainably remains our goal that we wanted to be judicious in how we're guiding.

Understood. And then you mentioned that potentially there is some consideration of either global events or perhaps any other considerations as well in that guidance, for example, maybe an evolution in the domestic political landscape?

No... [indiscernible]

(00:20:19)

No, that's a great question, and I think it's – again, other than the [indiscernible] (00:20:25) made about our general conservative approach to guidance, I would hope sort of encompasses any risk there. But I'll tell you we mentioned bookings in December and really the fourth quarter in total and how bookings have started this year, and we're not seeing any issue as it relates to the management. Our pipeline continues to refill. Our current weighted pipeline right now is as large as it's ever been in spite of the fact that we just did two back-to-back months of record booking. So, the climate that we're in right now that we're seeing is actually quite positive. We were affected very minimally by corona here in the first quarter, primarily in January where we actually had some of our books quarantined in their houses, but that's pretty much past us now, and they're back in the office. And so we see things fairly normal, outside of things, we obviously can't predict.

That's helpful. And then one quick follow-up on the quarter, when I kind of look at the number of subcontractors that you guys are using, it's been steadily declining as the year's progressed. Any shift in strategy or is it specific to maybe certain projects or types of projects that the contractors were being used for? Any color there would be appreciated.

Yeah, absolutely. We continue [indiscernible] (00:21:52) strategy of leveraging subcontractors. But as demand has picked up, frankly, we're more comfortable bringing people on as employees. So, we don't – we're feeling less reliance sort of on that flexible capacity [indiscernible] (00:22:08) at work and essentially kind of driving that down. The margins that we get on subs obviously are a little lower than we get with employees. And we'd rather have them as employees anyway. So, yeah, we're probably reducing and we certainly are reducing that kind of a little bit, but it'll still be a factor as we move forward.

Understood. And then just one final question on the M&A, you provided some good color on the pipeline and the targets that you're pursuing. Is your consideration around the timing itself in the sense your capacity to take on multiple acquisitions at the same time or is the idea to try and space things out ideally?

Yeah. That's really not as much of a factor given the size of the acquisitions that we tend to target. Now, there's some larger ones out there if you do the math that I alluded to. But these smaller acquisitions in, say, 10% to 15% or even 10% to 20% range are integrated relatively quickly. We've got a great team in place, great management infrastructure prepared to scale the business to $1 billion and beyond obviously organically and through acquisitions. So, we've got capacity and ability to manage and integrate acquisitions simultaneously [indiscernible] (00:23:28).

Okay. Thank you for the color. I appreciate that.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Brian Kinstlinger with Alliance Global Partners. You may proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure. [indiscernible] (00:23:46)

Clearly, everyone is talking about coronavirus. I want to follow up on that. It may not have been apparent and as talked about in January when your bookings were the record. So I'm curious if you've seen a slowdown in bookings in February. Clearly, you were the record. So, any meaningful impact? Have customers' tones changed in conversations as enterprises get nervous about the global impact to their business related to what's going on in China?

No. I mean we [indiscernible] (00:24:18) so far in February are, I think, going to be up again pretty nicely, maybe not another record but should be a strong [indiscernible] (00:24:26) than our projected bookings through at least the April and into the second quarter are very strong as well as I mentioned on the weighted pipeline.

We're not hearing any feedback anecdotally from really any of our clients in terms of the coronavirus impacting their decisions to move forward or delaying anything. Directly we've heard nothing to that effect. And of course, we've actually got clients – one of our major clients, we're doing a big project for actually in China. And it's [indiscernible] (00:25:00).

Great. Interesting. So you touched on something I wanted to ask about. A long time ago you made an acquisition that we haven't talked about. That was China-based delivery. What percentage of your offshore delivery is China versus India versus other countries? And can you remind us where you are located in China?

We're in Hangzhou, which is about a couple of hours southwest of Shanghai. And we've got about 80 employees there compared to 700 total offshore. So it's a little more than 10%.

Great. That's helpful. And then the 4Q bookings as well as January that was so strong, does that mimic the mix of your business in terms of verticals, or are there any outlier verticals that are seeing – that may see share gains in your business over the course of the year?

Yeah. It's consistent with the current breakdown. So health sciences leads the way followed by financial services. Automotive, retail, et cetera is pretty much the same breakdown. So it's a tide lifting all boats from a vertical standpoint.

Great. Last question I have is, it appeared demand from your Adobe-related services is outpacing other platforms. Do you see that continuing? And if so, what are the driving factors for that?

I do. And well, I think it's Adobe's share. I also think it's the expansion of software that they've already sold. It's a very robust that the marketing manager component of their business is what I'm talking primarily about. And I think it's a testament to that being a very robust tool with lots of different modules and capabilities that not everybody implements initially. So I would say, one, they continue to take great share in that space; but two, there's also a lot of our clients that are now coming back around for – sort of around two or three to drive further enhancements and implement further enhancements around those installations.

Great. Thanks so much.

Thanks, Brian.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Vincent Colicchio with Barrington Research. You may proceed with your question.

Yeah. Jeff, you had mentioned that the offshore growth is very robust. Should we expect to see double-digit growth this year as well, or will be a slowing in that growth?

Oh, no. I believe we will. I think it'll be a year similar to last year and might even be stronger and recall that last year it was about 21%. [indiscernible]

(00:27:45) continue to add a large number of relatively large piece of new business. So I'm curious, is your top 10 concentration changing, what does it look like year-over-year sequentially?

I'd say it's probably flat as a component, and Paul's going to double check this specific number. But I think it's flat as a – on a relative basis, right? So as a percent of revenue, it's probably staying about the same.

It has. So [indiscernible] (00:28:13) it was 32% or [ph] top 10 (00:28:15) with 32% of revenues in 2019 and fourth quarter was 31% in 2018, so essentially staying the same.

Okay. And then I missed what you said in terms of EBITDA margin expansion expected for this year. What was that?

Yeah. I think 100, 200 bps if you look at our guidance that's implied in there and I feel good about that. We've got a lot of leverage still to pull. We achieved about 2% rate increase last year across the year against the backdrop by the way of [indiscernible] (00:28:50) cost increases for employees of only about [indiscernible] (00:28:53). So, obviously, some expansion driven there, as well as the substantial mix shift to offshore where gross margins are north of 50%.

Okay. Thanks for answering my questions.

Thanks, Vince.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Jack Vander Aarde with Maxim Group. You may proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. So total billable head count was up about almost 1% Q-over-Q. North American head count, it was flat Q-over-Q. I don't know, can you just provide any additional color around that dynamic? Is there a reason for this or am I just looking into it too much and where do you see this trending, I guess, throughout 2020? Will it continue to increase?

Yeah. Your question is related to the difference between offshore and onshore. So, onshore is flat and offshore is growing.

That's right. North American head count seems to have been flat from last quarter on a quarter-end basis.

Yeah. And [indiscernible] (00:30:00) managing seasonality in Q4 and working to maintain a solid level of utilization. We always try to slow down on hiring particularly domestically. And I would say, during a normal period, we might even slow down a little bit offshore. However, given the demand that we're seeing there and the growth base that we're enjoying there, we're actually hiring quite a lot there and in fact hiring a little bit to the [indiscernible] (00:30:27) where our costs are lower and we're able to do that.

And we saw accelerating growth offshore, and the fourth quarter was actually our strongest year-over-year quarter offshore. [indiscernible] (00:30:37) to the first quarter of 2020 with the acquisition that's closed and potentially not the one you'll see [indiscernible] (00:30:44) North American head count.

Got it. Okay. That's helpful. And then, so with the number of and the dollar value of the large deals being pretty strong this quarter after kind of dipping a little bit last quarter although last quarter was still up year-over-year, just wondering if you're seeing any changes with regard to the largest competitors of yours in terms of their pricing strategy, are they doing any changes there? And then is there any impact in your win rates and where you see win rates going in the future?

Actually, I would say no. The competitors are behaving kind of the same way they always have, and they're formidable and they're happy to go compete on price. So it's not just a price differential, it really comes down to skills as well. So I think that's going to continue going forward. I'm not concerned about anything new sort of on the competitive front. What was the second part of your question?

Where do you see those win rates going forward, but it sounds like you've answered. [indiscernible]

(00:31:50) Yeah. Win rate. Yeah, win rates are strong as they've ever been, mid-60s. And interestingly enough because I expected them to go down as we've increased our sales capacity and we're getting more [indiscernible] (00:32:03). And you can see the results of that. We revealed in our sales. I actually thought our win rates would maybe come down a little bit, again, as we're out there swinging more, but the reality is they're staying pretty solid in the mid-60s. So another good indicator.

Okay. Excellent. Thank you. That's it for me.

Thanks, Jack.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Allen Klee with National Securities. You may proceed with your question.

Yes. Hi. I'm not sure if you have this at this moment, but can you tell us for fourth quarter what operating cash flow and CapEx were?

Yeah. If the K should be out later today. So yeah, so they'll be out in the next hour or two or we'll be happy to provide that.

Okay. And then, is it reasonable to assume that working capital will not have a material impact based on what you know today on 2020 operating cash flow?

Yeah. So the biggest driver of working capital for us is AR. We expect the day sales outstanding to stay relatively in line with the 71 days we had in the fourth quarter. So working capital needs will essentially scale with growth in the – so the cash pool provided by our operating activities was $78 million and the combination of PP&E and capitalization [indiscernible] (00:33:39) about $9.2 million.

Okay. Great. And then I might have missed this, but did you say what's your organic growth rate was in the fourth quarter?

Yeah. Fourth quarter was about 9%.

Great. All right. Thank you so much.

Thank you.

Thank you, and I am not showing any further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back over to Jeff Davis for any further remarks.

All right. Well, thank you all for your time today. We appreciate it and look forward to talking to you again in a couple of months.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.