corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 15, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Tina and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Third Quarter 2000 (sic) 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to Todd Fromer, with KCSA Strategic Communications


Mr. Fromer, you may begin your conference.


Todd Fromer, Managing Partner, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, Tina, and thank you all for joining us today for the PFSweb third quarter conference


call. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following remarks


concerning forward-looking statements.


All statements in this conference call other than historical facts are forward-looking statements. The


words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, guidance, confident, target, project and


other similar expressions, typically are used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-


looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and involve and are subject to risks,


uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial condition and


operating results, which include but are not limited to the risk factors and other qualifications


contained in PFSweb’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other


reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC, to which your attention is directed.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by


these forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update


these forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales and certain ratios that


use these measures. In our press release with financial tables issued today, which is located on our


website at pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a


reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures, and a


discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures


are included for the benefit of the investors and should be considered in addition to, and not instead


of GAAP measures.


At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Todd, and good morning, everyone. I’d like to welcome you as well for our third quarter


2010 conference call. Present with me today is Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer; our


President, Mike Willoughby, who normally participates in these calls is away today on a client visit.


This morning, Tom and I’ll provide you with an overview of our financial results, and then add some


color on the events that shaped the quarter ended September 30th of this year. Following prepared


remarks, we’ll be available for questions.


As color and summary for our overall business activity through September 30th, I’m very


encouraged by the outstanding momentum we have in our PFSweb core services segment. While
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 15, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


our eCOST.com and Supplies Distributors segments turned in some tempered results for this


quarter that I’ll describe in a little bit, and that impacted our overall revenue growth, I believe it’s


most important for us to focus today on the 25% growth in Service Fee during quarter three, and


the strong new business pipeline that our Services segment is currently boasting.


Our Services business has always been our core strategic segment, keenly focused on capturing


the large opportunity to deliver End2End web commerce solutions to the rapidly growing


manufacturer direct-to-consumer web commerce marketplace. Not only did we see strong growth in


our Services segment this past quarter, but we’ve also seen our new business pipeline continue to


be large and attractive, and as attractive as really any point in our history. Collectively, this provides


an outstanding barometer from my perspective, as we look at the exciting opportunity for growth


that we have, as we look towards the next year or two.


As I mentioned, both our eCOST.com and Supplies Distributors segments turned in softer results


this quarter when compared to last year. On the eCOST side, issues surrounding e-mail


deliverability, as we discussed last quarter, impacted this segment negatively. However, we did


begin to see an improving trend late in the quarter, as the actions that we undertook to address e-


mail deliverability began to have impact.


On our Supplies Distributors segment, it also experienced a reduction in revenue this past quarter.


This was partially due to certain inventory supply shortages during the quarter that were related to


this segment’s largest client’s transition to a new ERP systems platform as well as impact of


changes in currency rates. The migration from an ERP perspective of this client is now generally


completed and supplies inflows returned generally to normal towards the end of the quarter. As


such, we currently expect the overall business levels to improve during the fourth quarter.


I’d also like to briefly remind everyone that each of these businesses offer the – our Services


segment substantial additional benefits. So speaking of the Supplies Distributors segment and our


eCOST segment do provide kind of additional benefits to our Services segment. These benefits


include bringing a significant amount of scale to our operations as well as a platform for the


development of new technologies, which are carried over to our Service Fee business, and benefit


our Services clients. In turn, this has helped assign new Service Fee clients. So while the results in


these segments are mixed, we do gain substantial benefits that are not directly in the – reflected in


the segments financial numbers.


Overall, I am quite pleased with the direction of the company, we believe we are on the right path


for the future, we are evolving our offering to stay in line with the rapidly expanding and evolving


web commerce marketplace by continuously offering additional services and by staying abreast of


the rapid development of technologies and features that this incredible frontier continues to spawn.


We have our hands around some exciting growth sectors within the rapidly expanding eCommerce


industry, and we’re successfully seizing upon those opportunities, particularly as we look at the


fashion, apparel and accessories, beauty and fragrance, and the consumer packaged goods


industries, where a lot of our new business focus has been recently.


So with this summary information as backdrop, let me now spend a few minutes providing you


some additional commentary on each of the three business segments and their results for this


quarter. First on the Services segment, we’re now servicing approximately 40 total clients in this


segment, including great names like Procter & Gamble, LEGO, the family of Liz Claiborne brands,


including Lucky Brand Jeans, Carter’s, Roots, The Home Depot, Chanel, Tractor Supply, and many


more.


The past few months, we’ve launched several new client relationships, including Volcom, a large


boardsports brand; Juicy Couture, another brand in the Liz Claiborne family; and a couple of others.