corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Garth Russell


with KCSA Strategic Communications. Please go ahead, sir.


Garth Russell, Vice President in Investor Relations, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, Christy. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call and other


historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect,


intend, will, guidance, confident and other similar expressions typically are used to identify forward-


looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve and are


subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial


condition and operating results which include, but are not limited to the risks, factors and other


qualifications contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q


and other reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC to which your attention is directed. Therefore


actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these


forward-looking statements.


PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.


During this call we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures, such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales and certain ratios that


use these measures.


In our press release with the financial tables issued today which is located on our website at


pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a reconciliation of


these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures and a discussion about why


we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures are included for the


benefit of investors and should be considered in addition to and not instead of GAAP measures. At


this point, it is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman, Senior Partner and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Garth. Good morning, everyone. I’d like to welcome you to our 2009 fourth quarter and


our year end conference call. As usual, today with me is Tom Madden, our CFO; Mike Willoughby,


our President of our Services Group. I’ll begin with an overview of our financial results and a little bit


of highlights, what shaped the year for 2009 and then Mike and Tom will have some prepared


comments. And after that we’ll be available for questions.


So exciting times, as you review our results that came out today and the information that we’ll


provide you herein, we believe we’re entering a new era for PFSweb, an era we believe will be


characterized by stronger growth, improved financial performance and market dominance in a


number of evolving web commerce market segments.


Much of the activity and progress that we’ve been discussing on our calls over the past year which


is being led by our end-to-end eCommerce services offering has now begun to materialize. We’re


showing consistent wins versus our competition, particularly with companies who own families of
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 25, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


brands. And we believe we will begin to see the financial impact of this activity in our numbers


towards the end of 2010 and into 2011.


While we certainly have challenges to overcome, including the sluggish economy and loss of


revenue from the non-renewals of certain contracts over the past year, we are very excited to see a


new wave of substantial and sustainable growth opportunities and a number of rapidly evolving


eCommerce product segments, as well as many international markets. And Mike will give you a


little bit more information on that in a few minutes.


As I look back through 2009, I’d like to give you a few points that I think are the highlights of our


business for the year. First, the Services business with its end-to-end eCommerce offering has truly


redefined our role and market and escalated our service offering from being a piece of a puzzle to a


full solution for our customers and potential customers. As Mike will discuss, this has allowed us to


become significantly more competitive in bids for new customers and opened a larger overall


market opportunity for us as we look to the future.


For instance, our recently announced agreement with Proctor & Gamble for the P&G eStore was


possible because of this end-to-end solution. As you might expect, the announcement of this


agreement has garnered significant attention for our services amongst many potential customers,


particularly in the fashion and consumer packaged goods, or CPG market segments, such now that


we have companies proactively reaching out to us.


Second, several new client agreements have ramped up over the past 12 to 18 months, giving us a


significantly more diverse and stable revenue base for the Service Fee business than we had just


even a year ago. These new clients have included the launch of programs for Proctor & Gamble,


Luxottica’s Group Sunglass Hut, Sephora and the Army Air Force Exchange Services amongst


those that we can name. Further, we have finalized and launched a master agreement with a luxury


goods retailer for multiple brands and also another iconic brand name that has not yet been


disclosed.


Third, as you look at our financial results for the fourth quarter you’ll see that eCOST.com achieved


a positive net income result for the fourth quarter of the year. This was possible after we


substantially increased the number of products, expanded in the new product segments, like home


and sporting goods, developed promotional marketing campaigns, and nurtured an ever-expanding


group of repeat shoppers through our special membership programs and marketing activities over


the last three years.


Further, we are gaining exponential benefit from the linkage of the eCOST.com business with our


PFSweb services agreement, as we share the experiences from pioneering in the interactive


marketing and other web retail services and mold them into our range of PFSweb services


offerings. And I’ll have a little more information on that in the eCOST segment of the call here in a


couple of minutes.


And fourth, as a look back at 2009, I’m actually very proud of our group and in the business model


flexibility that we created as you look at the cost containment and rationalization measures we


implemented during the recession this past year. It’s led us to identifying new ways to streamline


our business and to provide us with we believe are even greater abilities to leverage our structure


to minimize costs as we grow in the future.


As you look at our 2009 results, you’ll see a reduction of more than $7 million in our SG&A levels


and spending levels as a result of the various actions that we took last year to react to client non-


renewals and also obviously the sluggish economic environment. As a result, we were able to


report positive free cash flow for 2009 which was the objective that we stated there in the year.