corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christie and I’ll be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to PFSweb’s Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I would now like to turn the call over to Todd Fromer of KCSA Strategic Communications. Please


go ahead, sir.


Todd Fromer, Investor Relations, KCSA


Thank you, Christie. Good morning, everyone. And thanks for joining us for the PFSweb Third


Quarter Conference call.


Before turning the call over to management, I’d like to make the following remarks concerning


forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call other than historical facts are


forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, guidance,


confident and other similar expressions typically are used to identify forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve and are


subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial


condition and operating results which include but are not limited to the risk factors and other


qualifications contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q


and other reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC to which your attention is directed. Therefore,


actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these


forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these


forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales and certain ratios that


use these measures. In our press release with financial tables issued today, which is located on our


website at pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a


reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures and a


discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures


are included for the benefit of the investors and should be considered in addition to and not instead


of GAAP measures.


At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman and Senior Partner – Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone. Thanks, Todd. Appreciate your time this morning and I’d like to welcome


everybody to our third quarter conference call. As usual, with me today is Tom Madden, our CFO;


Mike Willoughby, President of our Services Business.


This morning, we will provide you with an overview of our financial results for the third quarter and


then some information on the events that helped shaped the quarter ended September 30 of 2009.


Following our prepared comments Tom, Mike and I will be available for questions that you may


have.


While I’ll leave it the world’s top economists to determine where we are in the recessionary cycle


overall, I am encouraged by the operating results of all of our divisions over this past quarter given
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the challenges. As I discussed with you last quarter, we believe that Q2 of 2009 would be the low


point of our operational results and we were hopeful that Q3 and beyond adjusted for seasonality


would show improving trends. While we’re upbeat that our results for Q3 that we announced this


morning reflect just that improving trend and as we look forward to Q4, we believe this upward


trend will continue in both our PFSweb Service Fee business as well as at eCOST.com.


We believe we remain on target to generate positive free cash flow for the 2009 calendar year and


we’re looking forward to what we believe will be improving financial targets for 2010. While we still


have a lot of work ahead of us, we believe that the adjustments we’ve made to our business and


certain cost-cutting initiatives have allowed us to remain a competitive and aggressive company


that’s poised to deliver strong performance as the economy rebounds.


Overcoming this recession and the non-renewal of a Service Fee agreement with the U.S.


Government entity that happened earlier this year, would have been difficult enough events had we


faced them at separate times let alone together. The fact that we’ve emerged after these events


occurred simultaneously and in the position that we have as reported this morning is a testament to


just how dynamic our company and its people are. We’re clearly are survivalists and we know how


to adjust as things or challenges are thrown our way.


Most notably, we’ve remained financial healthy and have an expanding list of new Service Fee


client programs, currently expected to rollout over the next several quarters. As Mike will discuss in


more detail momentarily, the Service Fee business has been busy this year and establishing and


signing new client programs.


I’m especially pleased with the new End2End solution for our Service Fee business that we’ve been


discussing over the past year. The End2End program has significantly enhanced our ability to


compete for and win new client agreements. In just the past year since it was launched, we’ve


proven what a game changer this new solution can be, winning new client agreements consistently


against our competition. We look forward to carrying this exciting momentum forward into a


healthier economic environment where we believe the opportunity to accelerate on that success


exists even further.


While we’re excited about the potential of the economic recovery and where we see things right


now, we still are very cautious. And we’re moving forward cautiously and maintaining a careful


watch over our operating costs. Frankly, it’s just too early to predict how quickly the economic


recovery will take place and whether it will be consistent, and as such, we remain keenly focused


on controlling our operating costs. We believe our relationships with our lending and banking


partners remain strong and they have applauded our proactive efforts this year to quickly adjust our


operations to meet the various challenges we’ve faced and for our efforts to ensure we continue to


operate with positive cash flow even on lower revenue levels.


So with this information as a backdrop, let me now turn the call over to Mike, who will give you


some information specific for the services business. Michael?


Michael Willoughby, Senior Partner – President, PFSweb Services Division


Thanks, Mark, and good morning, everyone. Before beginning my prepared comments, I need to


remind you that when I refer to our Services business segment, I’m including both the Supplies


Distributors and the PFS Service business in that description. Both of these businesses have


essentially the same operating model, but they have a different underlying financial model where


Supplies Distributors take title to product and the PFS Service business does not.


First let me say that I’m pleased that the September quarter for the Service segment shows


improvement in revenue and operating results compared to the June quarter, as we’d indicated in