raw transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the PFSweb Investor Conference Call for the First


Quarter of 2005. The company’s announcement of earnings was made before the opening of


market today and is available at the company website, www.pfsweb.com. A rebroadcast of this


conference call will be available for a limited time starting two hours after the conference and can


be accessed by dialing this number, (973) 341-3080 and providing the PIN number, 6040357. The


replay also will be available at the company’s website for a limited time.


I now turn the call over to Micahel Cimini of KCSA Worldwide who will review the Safe Harbor


statement and introduce today’s speakers. Mr. Cimini.


Michael Cimini, KCSA Worldwide


Thank you, and good morning. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that matters


discussed in this conference call, particularly information regarding future revenue, earnings,


business plans and goals consist of forward-looking information within the meaning of Section 27A


of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are


subject to and involve risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ on a


material basis from the forward-looking information. Such statements are not guarantees of future


performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. These


statements are based on assumptions and estimates that management believes are reasonable


based on currently available information. However, management's assumptions and the


company's future performance are both subject to a wide range of business risks and uncertainties


and there is no assurance that these goals and projections can or will be met. Any number of


factors could cause actual results to differ on a material basis. The company undertakes no


obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. All forward-looking information


contained herein is subject to risk and factors and uncertainties described in the company's filings


with the SEC.


Thank you again for your time this morning. I would now like to turn the call over to PFSweb CEO


and Senior Partner, Mr. Mark Layton. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. Thank you, Michael. I appreciate your time this morning. We will have a


few minutes of prepared comments and then time for questions at the end of the call. On our first


quarter we announced this morning, we have noted that we have completed all the implementation


of our new contracts that we signed in 2004. We estimate these contracts to be valued at more


than 20 million in annual service fee revenue based on current projections. These implementations


include the Raytheon Aircraft Company, FLAVIA® Beverage Systems, CHiA'SSO, Rene Furterer,


USA and a number of other clients including a large Fortune 500 consumer products company, a


major nutraceutical company, a pre-paid wireless provider and a healthcare payment provider and


others. The names of those clients are not disclosed due to arrangements with the client.


We are particularly pleased we were able to increase service fee revenue by 98% in the first


quarter. This result now reaches to over 14 million in service fee revenue strengthening our


weakest quarter – traditionally weakest quarter of the year. It remains our goal to focus our efforts


on increasing the service fee business segment as we continue to expect that to be the key driver


of our future growth. We are making regular expansion investments in both our technology and
raw transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


operational infrastructure to ensure we continue to have ample capacity to support that growth. We


will speak more about that a little bit further along in the prepared comments.


The success we have achieved in obtaining new business we believe reflects our evolving strategic


approach [indiscernible] while we are targeting larger contracts. This past year, we strategically


expanded and targeted our marketing and sales efforts to reach a greater number of industries,


increasing number of Fortune 500 and Global 1000 companies as the target audience that we go


after. We continue to increase our operating capacity and technology infrastructure to meet new


and existing client demands.


You will see in our release this morning, we recently signed a new five year lease for an additional


306,000 square feet at the new Airways Distribution Center in Southaven, Mississippi. This facility


has room for an additional 251,000 square feet. So, the building in the total is about 557,000 feet


of which we are taking 306 now. And, we have the option – our commitment to take another


100,000 feet in that building during the first year. This facility will include a lot of our technology


that we have developed over the years, including our pick-to-light cards, a lot of slower acting RF


technology. And, we currently expect this new facility to be targeted primarily towards our


business-to-business supply chain segments. The additional space is located directly across the


street from the Marketplace Drive facility which came on-line in January that is home to the large


consumer products company as well. This brings PFSweb's operation in this 135,000 – a 135 acre


industrial park to about 908,000 square feet. And, our total Memphis [indiscernible] space now in


excess of 1.5 million square feet.


Our expansion in Southaven is necessary to better accommodate our company’s growing client


base. Additionally, we have made a strategic decision to streamline operations and relocate two of


our existing distribution facilities that are currently in Memphis to this new facility in Sourthaven.


We will soon begin to relocate inventory from nine PFSweb clients. And, we estimate


approximately 60 employees will make relocation down to Southaven.


We are targeting to replace most of those jobs in Memphis with an expansion of our Memphis area


call center. As a result of these activities, we do expect to incur relocation and lease termination


costs totaling approximately $700,000, and that will be incurred during the second and third


quarters of 2005. We also expect to incur about $1 million of capital expenditure for the equipment


that I mentioned earlier that will furnish this new facility. Our expectation is, the move will further


enhance not only our operating efficiency, but increase our operating leverage and help continue


ensure a high quality of service for our clients and give us the ample capacity to grow for new


business in the future.


As previously discussed, we continue to address the new legislature requirements brought forth by


the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Recently, the SEC announced it has delayed Sarb-Ox requirements for


non-accelerated filers by one year. However, with PFSweb’s market cap near the $75 million R


[ph] level which would put us into the accelerator filer status, it’s prudent we continue to plan to


comply for 2005. As such, in the first quarter of 2005, we incurred costs totaling approximately


$300,000 in order to begin the compliance with Sarb-Ox. And, we expect to incur a similar or


slightly lower amount than that in the June quarter.


Finally, I like to extend a welcome to KCSA Worldwide, our new corporate communications firm.


This is our first earnings call since they were brought on board in April. We have retained their


services to assist us in our effort to increase awareness of PFSweb in the investment community.


We continue to strengthen our financial results and have established a sales and marketing


program designed to continue the momentum of signing new clients and contracts. This continues


to be a great and exciting time for PFSweb. We believe we are at or moving through the inflexion


point of our growth and that’s an appropriate time to begin to even further broaden the circle of


investor interest in our company. Thus, our employment of KCSA.