corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Latricia, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Fourth Quarter 2008 (sic) [First Quarter


2009] Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I will now turn the conference


over to Mr. Garth Russell (sic) [Todd Fromer] of KCSA Strategic Communications. Please go


ahead.


Todd Fromer, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, Latricia. Before turning the call over to management I would like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements.


All statements in this conference all other than historical facts are forward-looking statements. The


words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, guidance, confident, and other similar


expressions typically are used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking


statements are not guarantees of future performance and involves and are subject to risks,


uncertainties, and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial condition, and


operating results, which include, but are not limited to the risk factors and other qualifications


contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other


reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC, to which your attention is directed.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by


these forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update


these forward-looking statements.


During this call we’ll also present certain non-GAAP financial measures, EBITDA, adjusted


EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandized sales, and certain ratios that use


these measures. In our press release with financial tables issued earlier this week, which is located


on our website at pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a


reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures, and a


discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures


are included for the benefit of the investor and should be considered in addition to and not instead


of GAAP measures. I’d like to just correct what I said. The press release was actually issued this


morning.


At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman, Senior Partner and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Todd. Good morning, everyone. I’d like to welcome you to our 2009 First Quarter


Conference Call. After we have a few moments of prepared comments we’ll be available for


questions at the end of the call.


This morning we will provide you with an overview of our financial results for the first quarter and


add some color on the events that shaped the quarter ended March 31, 2009. As I look at the


financial results for the first quarter I would categorize our status as steady as you go. On lower


revenue and cost levels our consolidated adjusted EBITDA performance of $2.7 million for Q1 was


virtually flat with our same quarter last year. Given the economic challenges that we have all been


facing and the loss of our large U.S. government client that became effective during the March


quarter, I’m actually quite pleased with our overall performance when you compare it to last year.
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As I described previously, we have built our business model and operating culture with the goal of


ensuring the utmost in flexibility, variability, and responsiveness. While those all sound like great


words that any company can repeat as part of their culture, as they say the proof is in the pudding.


Over the past several months recognizing the economic downturn and changes in our client


revenue levels, we have quickly reacted to make adjustments to our operations accordingly.


We have shed costs, adjusted our operational approach to help address the evolving landscape,


while also seeking to preserve our ability to effectively compete for new opportunities that arise. It is


from this nimbleness and flexibility that we believe we continue to perform well operationally. We


see these abilities as important factors for us and our clients as we believe it gives our clients


confidence in PFSweb as a partner because we believe we have the ability to adapt, change, and


react quickly to a rapidly changing business environment.


As you listen to the remainder of today’s call, you will hear more about the solid progress we


continue to make in each of our business segments. Our services new business pipeline remains at


near record levels. We have signed and are in final contracting stages with a number of new client


deals already this year, including a five-year agreement with the Army and Air Force Exchange


Service and a new signed relationship with a Fortune 100 company. You’ll also hear this morning


details regarding the continuing improvement in bottom-line results and top-line growth in the


consumer portion of our eCOST.com subsidiary. Even in this challenging retail environment,


eCOST.com is showing solid top-line growth activity in the B2C segment. And I’ll give you a little bit


more flavor on that in just a minute.


So with this information as a backdrop, I’d like to turn the call over to Mike Willoughby, who will


provide you some additional details about our Services business segment specifically. Mike?


Michael Willoughby, Senior Partner, President, PFSweb Services Division


Tank you, Mark, and good morning, everyone. It’s good to be here. Before beginning my


comments, I’d like to remind you that when I refer to our Service business segment, I’m including


both our Supplies Distributors and our PFS Service Fee business, since both of these businesses


have essentially the same operating model although they have different financial models.


As Mark just mentioned, our Services business is quickly adjusting to the impact of the economic


downturn as well as the non-renewal of a large U.S. government contract. Our strategy to respond


to the challenges of the weak global economy and the non-renewal of this large U.S. government


contract is to continue to aggressively manage costs within the business as we continue to seek to


grow the Services business through new client contracts. Our goal in effectively executing on this


strategy, we believe, will result in our being able to emerge from the recession with greater diversity


in our revenue base as well as a robust list of name-brand clients which would lead to decreased


customer concentration risk.


As of March 31, 2009, our Services business had over 40 clients and brands. This includes a


number of client programs launched within the past year, some of which were not fully ramped up


as of the end of the first quarter. These client programs include Luxottica Group’s Sunglass Hut,


which was implemented in the December, 2008 quarter; Sephora, which is a division of Moet


Hennessy Louis Vuitton or LVMH, which was also launched in the December 2008 quarter; and an


iconic brand-name client signed early in 2008, which just went live during the March 2009 quarter.


We were also very pleased to be able to announce on April 7, 2009, that we signed this five-year,


$15 million service contract with Army & Air Force Exchange Service. Under this agreement, we’ll


support the printed exchange AAFES catalog, as well as the Exchange online store. Our


customized solution includes warehousing and order fulfillment services and technology services