corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Wes and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions]. Than you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Garth


Russell, with KCSA Strategic Communications. Please, go ahead, sir.


Garth Russell, Managing Partner, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, Wes. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements.


All statements in this conference call, other than historical facts are forward-looking statements.


The words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, guidance, confidence, target, project


and other similar expressions, typically are used to identify forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve and are subject


to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial condition and


operating results, which include but are not limited to the risk factors and other qualifications


contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other


reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC, to which your attention is directed.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by


these forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update


these forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales and certain ratios that


use these measures. In our press release, the financial tables issued today which is located on our


website at pfsweb.com you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a


reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures, and a


discussion about, about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial


measures are included for the benefit of the investors and should be considered in addition to, and


not instead of GAAP measures. At this time, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark


Layton, Chairman and CEO of PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Great. Thanks, Garth. Good morning, everyone. I would like to welcome you as well to our Second


Quarter 2010 Conference Call. Today, as usual with me Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer


and Mike Willoughby, President of our Service business.


This morning’s call subject is related to financial results and background information related to the


quarter ended June 30, 2010. As noted, Tom, Mike and I will be available for questions after the


call.


As you turn to the results we issued this morning, the second quarter of 2010 was a very solid


period for us in terms of our Services business. During the quarter, we continued to build


momentum at all three points of our client cycle, including the enhancing of existing client


relationships, the launching of new clients and the signing of new client arrangement that will now


move into our implementation cycle.


As a result, as you’ll see from the results we put out this morning, Service Fee revenue was up


34%, as we compare to the previous year. This increase in Service Fee revenue helped to offset a


decline in product revenue from our other business segments in the eCOST and supplies


distributors during the quarter.
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


This resulted in a slight overall increase in total consolidated revenue. However I would be quick to


point out, as I think most of you understand our Service Fee business generates a much higher


gross margin than our product revenue units and thus the impact of the strong growth and revenue


in our Services business, along with a reduction in overall SG&A costs resulted in a significant


improvement in our adjusted EBITDA to $1.7 million this quarter as compared to, or a $1.7 million


improvement, as compared to the prior year.


The success of the Service business as Michael covered a little bit, is mostly driven by our


End2End solution. This continues to be well-received by existing and potential clients. As a result of


this solution, we’ve been able to address the needs of a bigger slice of the eCommerce market just


as the entire industry is seeing an influx of activity and growth.


This industry growth is driven by a greater number of companies, including manufacturers, retailers


and service providers, looking to start or expand their direct to consumer eCommerce presence, in


order to grow their own businesses and effectively – and to effectively interact with their customers.


Industry segments where we continue to see a lot of interest include fashion, apparel, beauty and


fragrance and of course the consumer packaged goods segment. We’re not only seeing these


trends in North America, but since launching our End2End solution, we’ve also seen increased


activity through our presence in the European market as well.


One of the most exciting program launches we’ve had for the End2End eCommerce solution was


the Proctor & Gamble eStore or the P&G eStore. This solution is based on a unique relationship we


developed with Proctor & Gamble. While the eStore will exclusively sell P&G products, we have the


ultimate responsibility for pricing, promotion and merchandising of the products on the site. And as


such, we have significant influence over the site’s operational and financial success. In short, we’re


a real partner with skin in the game, with Proctor & Gamble.


Product revenue in the resulting gross profit dollars will show in our eCOST segment as activity


begins to ramp upward from this activity. The reason eStore has received so much attention among


the eCommerce industry and the media in general, is because it represents a major CPG or


consumer products packaging company, moving forward with an eCommerce site of this scale,


leading the way for other CPG companies to follow. We’re all really excited about the progress that


we’ve made in this trend setting initiative and now that the site is live, consumers around the


country can enjoy the P&G eStore experience and make the eStore their new destination for


everyday products across the many well-known Proctor & Gamble brands.


Now, before I turn the call over to Mike, just let me touch on the eCOST business of a minute and


I’ll give you some more detail a little farther in the call. During the quarter, we did begin to


experience e-mail deliverability issues in terms of our – some difficulty in delivering e-mail to our


customer’s desktops, through many of the e-mail service providers like Yahoo, Google, Hotmail.


The ISPs over this last quarter implemented changes as they always do, but there were a number


of different changes this quarter, to their are e-mailing filtering algorithms.


While we continuously work closely with these major firms to understand and address the ever


evolving e-mail filtering techniques, these more recent changes have the impact of placing a larger


number of our marketing and promotional e-mails into our customer’s bulk or spam folders.


Because we rely primarily and majoritively on e-mail marketing for eCOST, and the resulting viral


impact of those e-mails to generate a large portion of our daily visitor traffic, the lack of the


effectiveness of the e-mails resulted in a decline in revenue this quarter. We’ve already


implemented various changes to our e-mail marketing approach and frequency and are also


implementing additional online and offline marketing tools, that I’ll talk about a little bit more in a few


minutes, that we believe collectively can be both efficient and cost-effective to increase visitor traffic


to the eCOST.com storefront.