corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 23, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is [ph] Melisa and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Fourth Quarter and Year End 2010


Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Garth Russell of KCSA Strategic Communications.


Please go ahead.


Garth Russell, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, Melisa. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements.


All statements in this conference call other than historical facts are forward-looking statements. The


words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, guidance, confidence, target, project and


other similar expressions, typically are used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-


looking statements are not guarantees of future performances, and may involve and are subject to


risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial condition and


other operating results, which include, but are not limited to, the risk factors and other qualifications


contained in PFSweb’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other


reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC, to which your attention is directed.


Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by


these forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update


these forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales and certain ratios that


use these measures. In our press release with the financial tables issued today, which is located on


our website at www.pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures,


a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures, and a


discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures


are included for the benefit of the investors, and should not be considered in addition to, and not


instead of GAAP measures.


At this time, it’s now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mark Layton, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer of PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank, Garth. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to our 2010 fourth quarter and year-end


conference call. As we have in the past, with me today is Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer


and Mike Willoughby, our President.


This morning, we’ll give you an overview of our financial results and some color related to the


quarter ending December 31, 2010, and also for the year ended on that same day. After our


prepared remarks, Tom and I’ll be available for questions.
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 23, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


2010 was a incredibly inspiring year for our company, and was marked by many achievements.


And I’d like to start this morning by just giving you a few highlights that you’ll hear themes of


throughout the prepared comments this morning.


First, as you look at the results that we’ve released this morning, you’ll see that our Service Fee


revenue for the year grew over 21%, and in the fourth quarter of 2010 grew 35%. The increases in


revenue were attributable not only to the growth of our existing clients, but also to new clients, and


the fact that it’s coming from both parts of the growth engine, it’s very important for us in terms that


we – as we look for the future for sustained growth.


The second key highlight we see for the year and the quarter was the fact that we launched 10 new


Service Fee clients during 2010. In total, as I’ve mentioned, about 10 new clients, both in the U.S.


and Europe. Some of the key names included companies like Carter’s, Volcom, Havaianas, several


new Liz Claiborne brand names; including Juicy Couture, Kensie, and Monet and several clients


under our master agreement with an as yet undisclosed beauty and fragrance company as well as


many others. Many of these contracts include our complete End2End services offering that has


been a cornerstone to our growth over the past few years.


Third key highlight, adjusted EBITDA, when you look at our results grew by 55%. The factors,


primarily growth that I just described, helped drive those results for our 2010 financial year.


Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended at about $5.5 million.


Fourth, as we’ve talked in the past, a key financial aspect to our model has to do with economies of


scale and what you’re seeing is the scale benefits beginning to materialize as our Service Fee


revenue grows. Strong growth this past year combined with a keen eye towards efficient and cost-


effective technology development and operational management we believe allows for a financial


model of continued improvement and adjusted EBITDA performance as we look to the future. While


we do expect to make some significant investments in staff, facilities and technology in the first half


of 2011 to address even greater growth that we see, we believe this will prepare us well to


capitalize on the continuing wave of new business opportunities that are out there. As such, we are


currently targeting Service Fee revenue to increase approximately 20% in 2011 and adjusted


EBITDA to increase to between $6 million and $7 million for 2011.


Fifth, you’ll see as you received our comments this morning that our new business pipeline has now


grown to more than $50 million in size. This is indicative of the continued momentum that we’re


seeing as it relates to manufacturers expanding their direct-to-consumer initiatives. Our new


business pipeline, which as I mentioned now sits at more than $50 million, is the largest it’s been in


our history. We believe this speaks for itself in terms of both the rapidly growing number of


End2End opportunities we are pursuing, and in the growing reputation that PFSweb has earned for


successfully implementing high-quality and customizable solutions for our clients.


And sixth, I think the other key highlight from 2010 and recently is that we’ve completed a


divestiture of selected assets of our eCOST.com business as of [ph] February 2011. We believe


this action will allow us to take what we’ve learned at the frontline of the web commerce retail world


and focus that knowledge more resourcefully on our rapidly growing services business.


So with those six highlights as a backdrop, I hope you can see why I’m very encouraged and


excited about the building momentum we have going into 2011. And I’m even more excited about


the strong pipeline of potential new clients, and the fact that they are coming from several key and


expanding markets that frankly are very new to the Internet commerce wave. These include the


fashion and cosmetics industry, as well as the consumer packaged goods market.


And with that as a high level backdrop for today’s call, I want to turn it over to Mike Willoughby, our


President for a few minutes, and let him add a little bit more detail and flavor. Mike?