corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is [inaudible] and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Fourth Quarter 2008 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.


Todd Fromer to begin. Please go ahead, sir.


Todd Fromer, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, [inaudible]. Before turning the call over to management I would like to make the


following remarks concerning forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call


other than historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, estimate,


expect, intend, will, guidance, confident and other similar expressions typically are used to identify


forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve and are


subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may effect PFSweb’s business, financial


condition and operating results, which include but are not limited to the risk factors and other


qualifications contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q


and other reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC to which your attention is directed.


Therefore actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by


these forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update


these forward-looking statements. During this call we’ll also present certain non-GAAP financial


measures, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales,


and certain ratios that use these measures.


In our press release with financial tables issued earlier this week, which is located on our website at


pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a reconciliation of


these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures, and a discussion about why


we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures are included for the


benefit of the investors and should be considered in addition to and not instead of GAAP measures.


At this time it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman, Senior Partner – Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, Todd. At the end you can explain the new fresh cash flow. Anyway, so thanks,


Todd. I appreciate the introduction and good morning, everyone. This is Mark Layton, Chief


Executive of PFSweb, and I thank you for your time this morning.


I’d like to welcome you to our 2008 Fourth Quarter and Year End Conference Call. With me today


as always is Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer and Mike Willoughby, President of our


Services business.


This morning we will provide you with an overview of our financial results for the fourth quarter and


add some color on the events that shaped the quarter and the year ended December 31, 2008, as


well an update on certain items applicable to the calendar year of 2009. Following the prepared


remarks, Tom, Mike and I will be available for questions. I do want to apologize for the one day


delay in the scheduling of this call as we just had the other scheduling conflicts that arose that just


required us to modify the call scheduling.
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On Tuesday of this week, we released our 2008 full-year and fourth-quarter results. We were


pleased to be able to report that these results fall into the adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net


income range we targeted for 2009 at the beginning of the year. In light of the challenging


economic – actually that’s the targets for 2008, my apologies. In light of the challenging economic


environment that we’ve all been experiencing, we are particularly delighted to have been able to


produce these solid results. My hat goes off to my entire leadership team here in the U.S., Canada,


Europe and Manila, who I believe have done a fantastic job reacting to the challenges of this


difficult business environment and adapting our operations to ensure we achieved a desirable


outcome.


For 2008, as we’ll discuss this morning, we reported 10.1 million of adjusted EBITDA and 1.9


million of non-GAAP net income, both of which are within our previously provided guidance for


2008. 2008 represents our second consecutive year of positive non-GAAP net income and positive


free cash flow. And our December 2008 quarter marks our seventh consecutive quarter of positive


non-GAAP net income performance.


These consolidated financial results speak directly to the variable cost structure of our business.


This structure offers us the flexibility to quickly make adjustments to our cost structure in an effort to


offset challenges in the economy or changes in our clients’ needs that might arise. As we have


seen over the past year, this variable ability allows us to move quickly and is a significant


advantage for us and our clients as we believe it gives our clients confidence in PFSweb as a


partner because of our ability to adapt, change and react quickly to a rapidly evolving business


environment, particularly the one we’ve experienced together over the last six months.


With these full year results as a backdrop, let me now provide you a few key operating highlights


before I give the mic over to Tom and to Michael to fill in the details. First, I’d like to point out our


Services business in 2008 saw a 15% increase in service fee revenue. As Mike will discuss further,


our development of a complete end-to-end service product offering, which we launched in early


2008, has driven increased activity from the online retail segment of our client base and has led us


to where we currently sit with our largest, and what I believe to be, most exciting new business


pipeline that we’ve had in many years. Mike will provide you some more details on that in a few


minutes.


Second highlight I’d like to point out is that our eCOST.com retail business unit reported improving


and encouraging trends during Q4 and throughout the year. Adjusted EBITDA performance


improved year-over-year, and while revenue was down slightly due to the challenging economics in


our business-to-business segment, our Business to Consumer segment within eCOST showed very


solid growth throughout 2008 and particularly in calendar quarter four.


Third highlight. Given the challenging economic climate overall and the reduction in service fee


revenue we will experience from the non-renewal of a large government contract as we’ve


disclosed previously, we took very strong and proactive steps during the first quarter of 2009 to


right-size our organization to where we believe it’s better aligned with the current business climate.


We believe that collectively these actions, as Tom will discuss further, will allow us to continue to


target positive adjusted EBITDA in 2009 and positive free cash flow.


We’re pleased to have completed the renewal of all of our major credit facilities as well. These


renewals have been done with terms that are materially similar to those under which we operated in


previously.


In summary, I believe our business remains vibrant, viable and healthy. And again I want to


acknowledge the outstanding work our leadership team from finance to operations to account


management to new business development and beyond has done over the past six months. It’s a


challenging environment, but our business has reacted well. It’s a great place to work, and I’m


proud of our team.