Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Garth Russell — Managing Director-Investor Relations, KCSA Strategic Communications
Michael C. Willoughby — President, Chief Executive & Information Officer, PFSweb, Inc.
Thomas J. Madden — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, PFSweb, Inc.
Jason Kreyer — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Mark N. Argento — Analyst, Lake Street Capital Markets LLC
Wilson Jaeggli — Founder, Southwell Partners, L.P.
Scott Tilghman — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Glenn Warren Primack — Analyst, PEAK6 Investment LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the PFSweb Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I'll now turn the call over to Garth Russell of KCSA Strategic Communications. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following remarks concerning forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call other than historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, will, guidance, confidence, target, project and other similar expressions typically are used to identify forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may involve and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb's business, financial condition and operating results, which include, but are not limited to, the risk factors and other qualifications contained in PFSweb's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by PFSweb with the Securities and Exchange Commission, to which your attention's redirected. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.

During the call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, service equivalent revenue, merchandise sales and certain ratios that use these measures.

In our press release, the financial tables issued earlier today, to which your attention is directed on the website, pfsweb.com, you'll find our definition of these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures and a discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures are included for the benefit of investors and should be considered in addition to, and not instead of, GAAP measures.

At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Mike Willoughby, CEO off PFSweb. Mike, the floor is yours.

Thank you, Garth, and thank you, everyone, for joining us on today's call. Let me quickly outline the agenda. I will begin with an update on the key highlights from our third quarter. And following my remarks, Tom Madden, our CFO will take you through an overview of our financial performance. We will then open the call for questions.

As we have previously stated, 2013 is a transition year as we restructure our operation and feel the impact from the loss of certain client programs. We've also said the third quarter of this year would be the revenue trough of this transition period before we saw sequential improvements in the fourth quarter as we realized increased benefits from new and expanding client relationships and seasonal client volumes. Taking these factors into consideration, our performance for the September 2013 quarter was generally in line with expectations. As a result, we're reiterating our previous guidance of 2013 Service Fee Equivalent Revenue of $110 million to $115 million, adjusted EBITDA of $9 million to $10.5 million. And we currently expect to be toward the higher end of the range of those targets.

Now turning to a new business update. The highlight of the quarter has to be the signing of the contracts with the United States Mint. This contract is for the design, development, deployment and operation of an end-to-end omni-channel commerce solution for their numismatics business. We've already begun the discovery and design portion of the deployment phase of the project with an expected launch in the third quarter of 2014. Our 10-year contract with the United States Mint consists of a one-year development project plus a five-year initial support period followed by a series of one – or one-year optional extension. Many of you may remember, this was a very large client of ours from the past that typically contributed to our service fee revenue generally around $17 million to $20 million per year. And while we will provide a much broader range of services to the United States Mint under this contract, program activity levels will be somewhat lower than they were five years ago. Therefore, we expect this contract to initially contribute service fee revenues in a similar range as before.

We also announced the launch of a direct-to-consumer solution for a leading Fortune 500 apparel and home fashion retailer. We've referred to the implementation of this client in prior conference calls. And although we were not permitted to specifically name the client in the past, we are now able to disclose that this exciting new brand is T.J. Maxx. We are supporting the T.J. Maxx brand under an enterprise agreement with the TJX Companies, Inc., which includes order management, payment processing, broad management, customer care and order fulfillment services.

The enterprise agreement includes the potential for other TJX brand to be added to the program in the future. And we're delighted to finally be able to speak publicly about this client win and even more excited about the revenue potential this enterprise relationship will bring in the future as TJX ramps up this program. We're also excited to have announced the em michelle phan eCommerce program as part of the L'Oreal Luxe Group and the Clarisonic eCommerce program as part of the L'Oreal USA group and both of those have gone live. As a reminder, we now provide complete direct-to-consumer solution for a L'Oreal brand in conjunction with their direct relationship with Demandware.

We continue to win engagements for both new clients and new brands within our existing client portfolio and we hope to communicate more details about these exciting new programs in the future. We now have a net total of 81 client programs live around the world which is up just slightly as compared to the prior quarter due to a combination of these previously announced client transitions and new program launches coming on this quarter.

31 programs of those 81 programs are end-to-end programs. We currently have six programs in implementation that's scheduled to go live periodically over the next six months to nine months including that win with the United States Mint.

With regard to our iCommerce initiative, we're happy to announce the expansion of our relationship with Roots Canada to include our iCommerce omni-channel solution that we announced earlier this year. This expanded solution leverages a whole range of PFSweb iCommerce technology ecosystem including PSFweb iCommerce product content management powered by Riversand and Endless Aisle applications developed for Root using the Shopatron distributed order management platform and PSFweb's iCommerce agent application for in-store customer service. This new solution has already delivered a significant financial and operational benefit to our clients in the first month of production. And we look forward to seeing what this quarter will bring as they leverage the Endless Aisle functionality during their holiday peak season.

With our first iCommerce omni-channel client onboard and fully operational, we'll now seek to onboard additional clients and prospective clients onto this program. By leveraging our omni-channel capabilities, our multichannel clients can offer their customers new delivery options and [ph] services (08:12) including pick-up-in-store and courier delivery as our clients seek to compete with delivery options promised by Amazon and other large online retailers.

With regards to our strategic relationship with transcosmos, our business development teams continue to work actively together to manage the tremendous interest we have received from Asian brands looking to launch eCommerce programs in the U.S. and in Europe. We refer to this sales pipeline as Project Atlantic. We mentioned on the last conference call that we had made progress in engaging with a startup Asian luxury products brand, and we have now progressed into contact discussions with that opportunity. We are also excited to see several enterprise-class opportunities moving through our Project Atlantic sales pipeline.

With regards to the opportunity to help our existing and prospective clients build out their eCommerce presence in Japan and China, the opportunity we call Project Pacific, we continue to make progress in deploying our technology and services into China in preparation for our first client. We are in discussions with a client interested in partnering with us in launching a program next year. Although our relationship with transcosmos is still in an early stage, we could not be more excited with how it is developing.

Including the business development opportunities from our transcosmos relationship, our new business pipeline currently sits at approximately $45 million in average annual contract value based on client projections. The pipeline is down somewhat from the previous quarter based on signing the United States Mint contract but reflects new opportunities that partially replaced that large contract in our pipeline.

Before turning the call over to Tom, I want to just quickly discuss the holiday period. With the official start of the holiday shopping season only a few short weeks away, we are finalizing our preparation. Shop.org, the digital division of the National Retail Federation is predicting a 13% to 15% jump in eCommerce sales compared to the holiday season last year. To put it another way, Shop.org expects that consumers may spend as much as $82 billion online in the U.S. this year.

Based on our own internal estimates and conversations with our clients, we expect many of our current direct-to-consumer clients to see year-over-year increases in line or greater than those projected overall industry trend.

This holiday season will be exciting for us as we seek once again to perform at very high levels for our clients. We have a number of significant new client relationships that will be ramping up during the holidays and utilizing our state-of-the-art technology platform, we believe we are well prepared to build on our very strong 2012 holiday performance as we help our clients maximize their holiday sales performance. We look forward to providing you with a recap on our next conference call.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Tom for a detailed review of our third quarter 2013 financial results. Tom?

Thank you, Mike, and good morning, everyone. I want to spend a little time providing some additional color on the September quarter results reported earlier today as well as a preliminary view into 2014.

Before doing so, I want to remind everyone, especially newcomers to our PFSweb story, that when we provide our discussions about our financial results, we often discuss our service fee equivalent revenue activity.

This metric is calculated by taking our service fee revenues, which is the primary business activity we perform, and adding the gross margin on our product revenue business, so that both businesses can be measured on a similar service fee basis. For our service fee business, while we experience a decreased in revenue on a sequential and year-over-year comparison basis due to the client transitions, we generated solid growth from new and expanded client arrangements.

Our overall gross margin for our service fee activity was approximately 32% for the quarter as compared to approximately 26% last year, and as compared to our targeted range of 25% to 30%. This strong September 2013 quarter gross margin result was driven by increased level of higher margin in professional and technology services including project work, as well as operating efficiencies.

In addition, the service fee gross margin in the September 2013 quarter included an incremental benefit of approximately $0.2 million due to certain client transition-related agreements. We continue to target an overall gross margin of 25% to 30% on existing and new service fee clients, and we expect to perform within this range for the remainder of this year.

We do remain focused, however, on increasing the level of higher margin service fee activity including our professional services model and technology-related services to help offset what can often be lower gross margin activity in certain more commodity-like service areas of the business.

For our product revenue business, as expected, we also saw a decrease as compared to the prior year due to the impact of the restructuring activity by our largest client in this segment. Gross margins in this business also declined somewhat due to a higher percentage of our product revenue being generated from lower gross margin product categories.

Our SG&A increased somewhat as compared to the prior year, primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs including healthcare costs and also increased facility-related costs and an increase in non-cash stock compensation expense. Looking forward, we are continuing to work on optimizing our cost structure to increase efficiencies and operating leverage as we go forward.

As we turn to the balance sheet, our total cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2013 was approximately $21 million and our total debt was approximately $12 million. As a result, our net cash-to-debt position as of September 30 stood at approximately $9 million positive, which is relatively consistent with where we were at the end of June. As you may recall, our overall net cash position was strengthened in May of this year by the cash infusion from our $14 million equity raise applicable to our strategic alliance with transcosmos.

Mike already covered our outlook for quarter four of 2013, as well as our full calendar year of 2013. So, I won't go through those again but instead, will provide some initial guidance for next year. As we look towards 2014, we expect to complete our recovery from the impact of the previously announced client transitions as we begin to benefit more from the 2013 restructuring activities and the onset of new client contracts including the United States Mint.

At this time, while we continue to work with our clients on their 2014 projections, our preliminary outlook is that we are targeting 2014 service fee equivalent revenue to be in the range of $127 million to $133 million and adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $12 million to $14 million.

There are some additional insights on our guidance for 2014. First, the 2014 service fee revenue target reflects an estimated increase in fees generated from our current and projected new clients of more than 20% as compared to 2013.

Our gross margin for the service fee business is expected to be within our targeted range of 25% to 30%. Our product revenue segment is expected to continue to decline approximately 20% in revenues on a year-over-year basis and operate at a gross margin level of approximately 6%.

We are driving toward maintaining our SG&A level relatively constant with the current year performance, excluding the restructuring expenses in 2013 even with the targeted higher service fee equivalent revenue expected. Depreciation expense is expected to increase moderately as compared to 2013.

From a quarterly perspective, with the anticipated launch of the United States Mint contract in the last half of 2014, we also expect the new contract revenue to be substantially back-loaded during the year. While this is expected to result in a strong run rate in revenue and adjusted EBITDA profitability as we exit 2014, our year-over-year quarterly performance comparisons in the first half of 2014 versus the similar period in 2013 will be down until we fully anniversary the impact of the client transitions from earlier this year.

Now I'd like to turn the call back over to Mike for some closing remarks. Mike?

Thank you, Tom. I wanted to briefly comment on our investor relations activities. Over the past several months, Tom and I had racked up some serious frequent flyer miles traveling the country to present at investor conferences and non-deal road shows. We met with a cross-section of investors, retail and institutional, generalists, and sector-specific value and growth, large asset base and small. And we come away from those meeting encouraged by the support we've received as we work to unlock shareholder value.

We're also appreciative of the feedback we received on ways we can better articulate our value proposition to the investment community. And as we head into the final stretch of 2013, we plan on continuing to be aggressive in our investor relations effort. This management team is committed to increasing transparency and visibility into our business, and we look forward to continuing our dialogue with the investment community.

I'd like to thank everyone that attended the call today, as well as thank our employees for their hard work in delivering the highest levels of service and value for our world-class customers. We're incredibly excited with the positive developments in our business and we're fully committed to delivering the best possible return for our shareholders.

This concludes our prepared remarks and I'd like to open up the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of George Sutton of Craig-Hallum.

Hey, George...

Hey, good morning, guys. It's Jason on for George actually.

Okay. How are you?

I'm good. Thank you. Say, Mike, you talked on the call about the one customer in Project Atlantic. You gave an update on the progress towards the last quarter, and then I'm just wondering if you can talk a little bit more about where you're at in signing that customer off, and bringing them on to the U.S. platform, and kind of what more needs to be done with that customer?

Sure. Well, we did update last conference call that we were moving them through the pipeline. Today, we updated that we were in contracting with that client which means that the nature of the engagement has been defined, and the proposal work is done, and now we're really just talking about some contract details. As you might imagine with the first client in this category, there were some additional details to work out compared to what we might have seen with the typical small client coming from the U.S., but I think we're making good progress on that deal.

And this particular quarter, we add a little bit of color around how they're positioned in that they are a luxury products category manufacturer. They have a nice business in Japan, fairly recognized brand there, and we look forward to helping them launch this brand here in the U.S. That means the initial expectations for the contribution of this client will be modest, but there is nice potential with the brand. So, we're basically at the finish line with that small Asian brand deal.

And I think last quarter you said that the customers wanting to be up and running ahead of the holiday season, is that still the case?

Clearly, that would be a very difficult thing to do. They reset their expectations for a launch in early Q1 and I think that they've set their marketing plans appropriately. I'm not sure that the holiday would have necessarily been a big benefit for them as they're launching this brand in the U.S. but we're certainly supporting their current plans for a launch in early Q1.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you. And then kind of to take the other side of that. So, you talked about the other customer that you're in talks with in the Project Pacific. Just wondering what more needs to be done to the platform there to integrate some existing transcosmos customers? Are there more investments you need to make in the platform or are you kind of ready to go to accept their customers at this point in time?

Right. So, just to be clear, the opportunity to onboard clients into the solution beginning in China really has more to do with our current clients or prospects in our pipeline and less to do with clients that are currently clients of transcosmos. So, the process that we've been going through is twofold. One is making the appropriate changes to our technology platform to operate in China, which has to do with integrating with the appropriate [indiscernible] (22:58) gateways, performing some localization works such that the important screens or pages in the website that customer service agents would use or personnel that are interacting with the system in China are presented in the appropriate language with the appropriate character set that's all kind of technical work that needs to be done for deployment. We had indicated before that that effort we thought would sort of take through the end of this year and into the first part of next year to do the technical work and that's going according to schedule and according to expectation for us.

The second component is to work with our client base to find the client that was willing to be the first to launch into China. Our pattern has always been when we're doing major initiatives to partner with a client that's willing to go into a new geography or into a new program like we just did with Roots of Canada on our omni-channel solution and partner with us in – to an extent experimenting or piloting the launch. And we believe that we have a client who is very interested in being the first, that is willing to travel that journey with us including probably a few bumps along the way. But we've been very successful in taking that approach in the past and once launching a client – moving to expand with other clients, once you kind of worked out the wrinkles.

So, hopefully, next conference call, we would have an update where we're able to actually talk about the client and more tangible roadmap. But I would say generally we're on track with what we've indicated earlier around our expectations to launch clients in China in the next year.

Okay. Great. And then just the last one for me. I know you guys have opened up some capacity in your data centers and maybe this one is better for Tom. But just wondering if you can talk about what kind of incremental margins you expect to recognize as you sell in to that available capacity in the DCs?

Sorry. Can you repeat the question? Did you say the technology centers or the data centers – or the distribution centers?

Sorry. The distribution centers. I know you have some capacity there. And I would assume that as you fill that capacity, you can have higher incremental margins than you're currently recognizing, correct?

That's correct. And sometimes from a financial reporting standpoint, we put some of that underutilized cost in SG&A as opposed to in cost of fees. And as it gets utilized to support clients, it gets reclassified up into cluster fees. So, it may not necessarily have an impact on gross margins, but it will have an impact on our adjusted EBITDA and profitability as we're able to bring more clients on, utilize that existing base to support those clients and generate the incremental fees applicable to it. So, from an operating income standpoint, those new client activities will clearly help us as we are able to fill up those space capacity.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks, Jason.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Argento of Lake Street Capital.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Mark.

Hey, Mark.

I wanted to spend a little time better understanding the potential pipeline or pipeline of new business and in particular, your relationship with Demandware. Clearly, Demandware is growing rapidly given some of the reported numbers and it looks like they've been a great partner for you guys.

Can you talk a little bit about your sales group and how you guys interrelate with the Demandware? Did the Demandware bring opportunities to you? Did you bring opportunities to them? Maybe talk a little bit about kind of the RFP process and how you guys actually win business.

Sure. One of the challenges when we were talking about our sales process is trying to generalize because every engagement actually is different and unique. So, [indiscernible] (27:10) sometimes are challenging. But I think describing our relationship with Demandware is it's a very strategic relationship. I think it's a very synergistic relationship because the services that we can provide in an end-to-end model I think are very compelling for certain clients, particularly those that are in our core categories. And so when Demandware is with their substantial sales force, sales and marketing resources are out in the market, talking to clients that are ready to replatform from a smaller end-to-end provider or a direct competitor of ours or when as the Demandware sales reps are talking to prospects and are hearing the kind of requirements that would indicate that an end-to-end model, full service model is appropriate, we certainly are the go-to provider here in the U.S. to help them to engage and win those deals rather than saying those deals go to a competitor with an end-to-end solution and in a different platform. So, we do see lead generation activities from Demandware. We are certainly taking responsibility for our own lead generation activities in the market and in constant communication with prospects that we believe are appropriate for our model.

As indicated with our L'Oréal relationship, we also have opportunities with Demandware where there's a direct relationship with them for the platform, but we still can provide all the rest of our services wrapped around that direct relationship and provide a lot of the value proposition associated with end-to-end even though the client might have a direct relationship with Demandware.

I actually wouldn't be surprised to see that kind of engagement increase over time as Demandware continues to expand up market and to offer more and more services that are targeted at supporting large enterprise clients. We're fine with that. We think that our value proposition in that scenario is very high. If you also listened to Demandware in their objectives going forward, they definitely are looking to focus in the up market and the enterprise class which is very consistent with our strategy. They're also looking to increase their efforts in Europe to take advantage of the very nice opportunity there. That's also aligned with our strategy. One of our direct competitors in Europe is having difficulties, which creates a competitive opportunity for us and we're looking to capitalize on that opportunity in the marketplace. So, I think we're very well aligned. We're cooperating our sales cycle appropriately to jointly engage to win deals. And I certainly see Demandware as being an important part of our strategy going forward as we look at these both mature markets and emerging markets together.

Is there – the vast majority of your end-to-end implementations, are you using Demandware or will you use other types of eCommerce engine platforms when you do your implementations?

Sure. So, when we do an end-to-end engagement, it is always going to be on the Demandware platform. That's the platform that we resell and support as part of our end-to-end. So, that being said, if you look at our current 81 programs, 38 of those programs are on the Demandware platform, either because we're reselling the platform as part of our end-to-end offering or the client is direct to Demandware and we wrapped the rest of our services around that. So, 38 programs of our 81 engagements involve Demandware either us a retailer or us participating with that direct relationship. That being said and we have several other platforms that we [indiscernible] (30:58) have active integrations with including Magento, IBM WebSphere, hybris, and ATG, as well as couple of other in-house type platforms that clients have operating. So, we have the ability to engage with all of the rest of our services around another platform and frequently do that. In those scenarios we're not reselling platform or currently providing any development assistance around that platform.

That's helpful. And then, switching gears to some of the new customer wins, of course, U.S. Mint, nice wins. Sounds like that will hopefully impact the second half of 2014. And Tom, I just want to make sure I understood. So, in your comments or prepared remarks, did you say that the front half of 2014 should be down year-over-year relative to the second half of the year as some of these new contracts kind of kick in?

That's correct. So, as we look in – until we fully anniversary the transition activity from some of the clients from this year, some of those clients still contributed to us in Q1 and Q2, and, to a small extent, in Q3. So, until we fully anniversary those client transitions away, we're still going to see in the early part of next year from a comparative standpoint with the same quarter of 2013, a downward trend. But on an overall basis, as we then start seeing the full impact of these new clients activities including the U.S. Mint started in especially in Q3 and Q4, we'll see a nice ramp up there from top line and bottom line standpoint.

And then, could you remind us on the – on your relationship with T.J. Maxx. How many sites do you have up and running right now and what's the opportunity there?

So, the TJX Company chose to launch the T.J. Maxx brand site first on the program which makes sense. It is the cornerstone brand. Their approach is to do this the right way and to be excellent in every aspect of it. So, I think they are being appropriately conservative in the roll out. As we've indicated on the conference call, there is the potential for additional brands to come on to this platform. And if you look at the TJX portfolio, certainly, Marshalls is a great addition to that portfolio having a very similar product category as T.J. Maxx. We're quite excited about the potential of the HomeGoods brand joining that portfolio, being in a different product category and having some different sort of inventory dynamics and financial profile. So, that's exciting to us. We would characterize that as potential at this point because we don't have a committed schedule. But I think it's fair to say that TJX is committed to the online channel and views this is a very strategic opportunity for them to support their brands.

Okay. And then, shifting gears to kind of the OpEx or expenses. You guys have done a better job, it looks like, of controlling the expense in terms of the SG&A. Although, I still – I'm of the understanding that a decent chunk of that $44 million, $45 million a year that you're spending in that SG&A line is related to – isn't just corporate overhead, but it's related to the supporting the business and – in terms of almost like a cost of goods. Is there any way we can get a better idea of what kind of your corporate overhead expenses are relative to the cost to support the business? Because just on its face, $40 million, $45 million relative to $130 million or [ph] $230 million (34:53) service fee equivalent revenue line in a kind of a blunted 20% gross margin business. I'm just trying to see how there's more leverage or how the leverage kind of develop some of the model a little bit more.

Could you talk a little bit about what's in that $45 million? Are you pre-spending? Do you have excess capacity in that number in terms of additional warehouse space? Maybe you kind of crack that number open a little bit if you could.

Okay. So, the – you are correct, the $45 million for this year does – first of all, that number does include some restructuring charges early this year, so the real run rate is somewhere in the low $40 million range. As we look at that while it includes our corporate overhead fees, and sales and marketing, and IT, there are other costs that are included in that business that are associated with running the business and supporting our clients.

And as I indicated earlier, there is also some to the extent that a facility is somewhat underutilized because it's not full yet from a client standpoint. Some of those costs that are not being utilized we allocate to SG&A as opposed to cost of fees. If you talk to different companies, they're going to allocate things a little bit differently. We feel like ours is an appropriate way of measuring our client profitability and keeping track of SG&A.

As we look to the future, it's really our objective to minimize any future SG&A increases from the level that we've got today and grow the top line of the business, and add incremental service fees and to grow margin contributions from those with just minimal increases from an SG&A standpoint. And as my guidance for 2014 indicated, our objective next year is to kind of hold the SG&A line relatively in check as compared to 2013 even on a revenue number that depending on the range is somewhere 10% to 12% higher on a year-over-year basis.

So, in our – it's a focus of ours to ensure that we continuing to monitor that closely and control those costs. We also, as we explore the business, we have to keep in mind that appropriate investments are being made in order to support the long-term growth of the business. So, we've got investments in sales and marketing and other areas, implementation and cost fee of that we believe are the appropriate investment in order to support the long-term growth opportunities that are out there for us. So, it's a continual balancing act that we play to ensure that in the short term, we're creating the right financial result for us, but also in the long term, making sure that we're in a position to take advantage of the opportunities that are out there in both the U.S., Europe, and now China marketplace.

Great. That's helpful. Congrats on a strong quarter, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Wilson Jaeggli of Southwell.

Good morning. And congratulations on the sequential improvement here – or actually sequential improvement to come. Help me here a little bit with your pipeline and how you define that. You're talking about $45 million in annual – average annual contract value, is that just applicable to your current customers?

No. So, the pipeline consists of opportunities that we have where we've delivered a proposal to a prospective client, and that could be a brand new client to us that we're not currently engaged with, or it could be a client relationship that we have where there's a new opportunity and a different geography, or with a new brand – supporting a new brand with a new program. So, it's mix of current clients and new clients.

And so, it's not organic growth in your current relationships?

No. It's incremental growth, even if you're talking about a current client, it's for a new brand or a new geography.

I understand. And this is kind of what – is this a projection over the next 12 months?

So, the average annual contract value is based on client projections for a full year – it depends on whether you're looking at a contract of three years to five years, sometimes it's kind of the midpoint. We have to look at whether this is mature business that we're on boarding or a start-up type opportunity and to try to have a reasonable estimate of what the average annual contract value would be over the life of the contract.

So, there's a little bit of work to do in [indiscernible] (39:56), but we start with client projections that are delivered to us.

And again, as Mike indicated it, represents a one year of revenue for those clients if we were to win that client arrangement.

I got you. And so, it dropped down from $55 million in the previous quarter here because of the signing of U.S. Mint?

Correct. So, once we signed a contract with the client, we move it out of this pipeline number. So, now we're implementing the deal. The deal is not actually going to go live until Q3 of next year. So, it's going to take us the next 10 months to implement the deal. But it's contracted, and so, it will move out of this pipeline, and if you look at the range, we kind of indicated for the average annual contract value, you would see that we've replaced – partially replaced that deal in the pipeline with other incremental deals.

Right. I guess, you're talking about the U.S. Mint not taking in until the third quarter, having a potential revenue of $17 million to $20 million. So, I guess, you would have some revenue in the third quarter, and then, you would have it ramped up fully in the fourth quarter with the U.S. Mint?

That's our expectation.

Okay. And so that is a negative that gets subtracted here from your pipeline. Help us here, a little question, a little more info on the T.J. Maxx contract, which is obviously, it seems very exciting. When would that go live?

Well, the T.J. Maxx site launched in October, I think.

Oh, October of next year?

No, this year.

Oh, yeah. Okay. You've gone live here in October?

Right. The site is live. It launched TJX. Their ambitions were to have that somewhat soft launch without doing a lot of publicity. So, it was a fairly quiet launch although the day after their launch, I think The Boston Globe picked up on the fact that they were online again and wrote a big article. And so, there was a little more buzz around the launch than maybe what T.J. Maxx was expecting. But from that point, they have had – as I said, they had a fairly conservative rollout as they've looked to really make sure that they're doing everything with excellence. And so, the site is live and we would expect it to ramp up gradually over the next year and 18 months.

Year and 18 months. So, you don't have all their current product on your site yet?

No. If you were to go shop the site, you would see some limited categories, mainly women's fashion. So, there's lots of opportunity for them to expand categories [indiscernible] (42:42) as they ramp up the program.

Okay. Can you give us a range of what service revenue potential might come from this relationship?

No. I can't. We typically don't break out on a client-by-client basis. Even the communication we've done with U.S. Mint is a little unusual but because the Mint's a government agency, there had been some indication of the contract value that was already out there so we needed to make sure that we provided a realistic estimate. It's also challenging on a start-up type deal [indiscernible] (43:13) TJX to pinpoint that so we haven't broken that out.

I see. That's too bad. I hoped you were starting a new trend here. Tell me if you would. The history of the T.J. Maxx, it had gone silent for a while, gone dark, or did you win it from a third party, or was this an in-house service that T.J. Maxx offered?

No. So, the T.J. Maxx site, they were not online prior to the launch of the site. They had been online for a brief time, I think back in the 2007, 2008 timeframe. And the program did not meet their expectations. They also had some issues, you may remember around the same time, around data privacy concerns in their store point-of-sale system.

Oh, yeah. Yeah. Right.

Yeah. Yeah. So, TJX took that opportunity to kind of reset and look at how they could be online with excellence and have a commanding presence in their sector online. And their relaunch was very well done, making sure that there were no opportunities for stumbles or not doing it 100%. So, that's...

Okay. And previously, when they had their site up, it was done internally?

I'm not sure of all of the...

Not sure of the history.

...the history of that.

Okay. All right. And okay. That concludes my questions. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Scott Tilghman of B. Riley.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Scott.

I wanted to touch on three things, and I'll throw those all out upfront. First, just on design and implementation process with the new customer wins, wondering what, if anything, you're getting in terms of upfront moneys during that process or if everything is deferred until you actually go live. Related to that with some of these new programs, are you getting guaranteed minimums beyond just the cause of implementation or not?

And then just third, speaking about the new customers that are coming to you versus some of other solutions out there, especially going direct to their customer base rather than choosing to partner with one of these more virtual mall-type operators, your big competitors. What rationale are they giving from making that choice?

I'll let Tom take the first two and I'll take the third.

Okay. So, from a start-up standpoint, our objective is to be, a, [ph] by (45:58) our clients for the efforts that's involved with the start-up activity applicable to launching a new site and the integration effort that go along with integrating our systems in theirs, and setting everything up. So, that's generally our targets. Sometimes, we'll do things a little bit differently there but generally our cash flow is somewhat neutral with the costs and the start-up activities that are involved.

We are – once that happens, we generally recognize the bulk of that start-up related activity on a amortized basis over the life of the contract. To the extent that it's a $500,000 start-up and it's a three-year contract, we'll recognize both the revenue and cost over that three-year period.

So, you're not seeing any difference in the contracts today versus what you've seen over the last couple of years?

Yeah. I guess the thing that would have changed over the last several years is that the start-up amount and activity level has increased as we deployed more of an enterprise full end to end solution and take into account our full scale of offerings. So, the upfront activity in cost and revenue that we experienced [indiscernible] (47:22) for the start-up is this higher than were – would have been previously. And so that means there's a little bit more ending up on the balance sheet getting deferred.

On your second question in regards to the guaranteed minimums, we generally do have some type of minimums in place in order to ensure that, on an ongoing basis, that we're getting paid at least for the infrastructure requirements that are out there to support the client regardless of whether they – the volume expectations are met or not. So, we usually have minimum storage footprint fees, account management support, and other components that are tied into the contract. So, even if the volume is significantly lower than the original expectations, we're still at least feels like we're in position to cover most of the cost activity in the business.

So, with regard to the third question kind of talking about competitive landscape and when a prospective client is evaluating operating their own eCommerce initiative by leveraging our solution versus the option that they might – may have to sell through a sites like Amazon.com or eBay, the first criteria, I think, that we see our clients making a decision based on is brand support.

So, most of our clients, if you look at the product categories, are very interested in making sure that their brand is handled in an appropriate way. The websites are very costumed. The customer touch points are highly branded. And you simply can't get that same brand experience through a large retail site like Amazon offers, whether that's the website look and feel, the interaction with the customer, whether it's calls that may come into call centers that need to be handled, or whether it's even the package and the way it's delivered, gift-wrapped and that sort of thing. So, brand support's kind of the number one criteria that helps a client determine whether they want to go with large retailer versus a custom branded solution.

Second, I think, criteria is the customer relationship itself. So, when you're selling through a retail site like Amazon, the customer is an Amazon customer, and when you're selling through your own site that we operate, it's your customer, and so you have all the data, you own the transaction, you're able to opt them in to your email list and market to them. None of those things are possible if you're selling through an online site like Amazon where they own the customer, they're opted in to their email list and et cetera.

That said, many of our clients do view Amazon or eBay as an alternate channel, and an opportunity to partner with them particularly on end-of-life products or products that they want to clear out, and they want to do that using them as an alternate channel. And so we have active connections with both eBay and Amazon as we're shifting our clients to move primarily end-of-life product out using them as an alternate channel.

And right now, the biggest opportunity I think that we have with our clients is, you may be aware, particularly Amazon has announced that they're building warehouses all over the country in order to promise enhanced service level for delivery. So, you can get your product the next morning or have a courier delivered even the same day because they're building these warehouses all over the country. We have an opportunity to help our clientss that are multichannel clients, and most of them are, to leverage their in-store inventories to deliver a similar service level without having to have the increased working capital to position inventory in warehouses all over the country. So, we think we have the real opportunity to help our clients compete with that, provide a similar service level at a lower cost, and still preserve their branding of the experience.

Great. Thanks.

You're welcome. Thank you for your question.

The next question comes from the line of Glenn Primack of PEAK 6.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi, Glenn.

First question, within your 2014 guidance is there an implied revenue stream at all from that first client win in China – or potential client win in China?

Right. There is really not, at this point, any benefit projected in that guidance. We haven't gotten to the point where we would be in a position of estimating the revenue. As you might imagine, it's a startup, any of these opportunities would be sort of startups and so, I'm not sure how much we would expect to have contributed in the first year. But there's nothing in the guidance from that at this point.

Sure. That's great. And then, on the gross margin front, as you continue to roll out your suite of professional and technology work, do you expect that mix to improve so that your gross margins potentially can improve as you go through, let's say, I don't know, 2015 or 2016?

Yes. I agree. Even as we take a look back over the last couple of years, you'll see that our gross margin percentage has improved somewhat in our service fee business as we've experience higher percentage of our activity coming from technology and/or the professional services. So, our current target continues to be kind of 25% to 30% range. We like to see an opportunity for us to continue to trend upward there. There's always going to be some pressures on the other side of the business with some of the lower margin more commodity-like characteristics. But if we can continue to drive a higher level of professional fees and technology services, it should end up resulting in an improved overall gross margin for our service fee business.

Great.

That would certainly be true of the way that we project the sort of organic growth of the business. We've also said in the past and we'll say here that we have an opportunity to accelerate that lift that we would get through M&A activities. So, to the extent that we execute on a plan to acquire a digital agency or technology services company, and that already has a revenue stream coming in at a much higher margin, then we have the opportunity to integrate that into our business model and effect our gross margins that way as well. And it certainly is part of our strategy as we look at our four-year plan that we're in the middle of executing.

That's super. I'm not really concerned with 2014. As I look forward into 2015 and beyond, I mean, if you just continue to kind of execute on your plan, the stocks will probably take care of itself. So, I don't think you really need to spend a lot of time on the road meeting with investors because the tough period, it seems like it's behind you and it seems like the combination of your strong paddling and [indiscernible] (54:32) at your back is taking you [indiscernible] (54:34) the river pretty quickly.

I appreciate that.

Yeah. So, like specifically, I mean, like the EBITDA guidance that you've given for 2014 shows some pretty nice operating leverage and so, if that continues a little bit more into 2015, the EBITDA gets closer to $20 million just on my back on the envelope stuff versus $10 million and I put 10 times on that. And that's like almost a double in your stock.

Right. Well, as I indicated...

That's a pretty easy story...

Yeah. It's...

...given all the hard work that goes in to that. I know it's not simple but...

Right. Yeah. Yeah. We wish it was that easy. But as I indicated in my comments, especially with the new contract activity that is going to benefit us later part of next year, we feel like we're going to exit 2014 with a strong run rate from both the top line and bottom line standpoint that would hopefully fuel continued strong improvement in our EBITDA performance as we look into 2015.

Yeah. Sure, Tom. I mean, you know how this works. As you go through 2014, people are start looking out at 2015. So, stock kind work more of what that following here looks like versus what this one does when you get passed all the noise and stuff. So, if you just got to keep your heads down and the productivity and morale over there continues to kind of ramp, you're in pretty good shape.

That's the plan.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further question. I'll now turn the call to management for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you once again for participating in the call. As we've indicated, we have a very optimistic outlook. These new client wins are great for both morale and for our financial outlook. We will continue to engage with our investment community actively. We'll be out on the road talking about are plans, new sites that we have in our future. We appreciate your support. And if there are any questions that you have you want to reach to us directly, we would love to hear from you. Thank you and have a great day.

Thank you for participating in today's conference...

[Abrupt End]