corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Nicole, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb First Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Garth Russell to begin. Please go ahead, sir.


Garth Russell, Investor Relations, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you, Nicole. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call other than


historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect,


intend, will, guidance, confidence and other similar expressions typically are used to identify


forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and involve and


subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial


condition and operating results which include, but are not limited to, the risk factors and other


qualifications contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,


and other reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC to which your attention is directed. Therefore


actual outcomes, results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these forward-


looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-


looking statements.


During the call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales and certain ratios that


use these measures. In our press release with the financial tables issued today, which is located on


our website pfsweb.com, you will find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial measures, a


reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures and a


discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial measures


are included for the benefit of investors, and should be considered in addition to and not instead of


GAAP measures.


At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Great. Thank you, Garth. Good morning, everyone. I’d like to welcome you to our first quarter 2010


conference call. With me today, Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mike Willoughby,


President of our Services Business. This morning, we’ll give you an overview of our financial results


and just some color on the events that shaped the quarter ended March 31, 2010. And after those


remarks, we’ll be available for questions.


To begin, just as a backdrop, we continue to be very excited about the momentum that’s building in


our business. There’s been a lot of positive events at PFSweb surrounding our end-to-end


eCommerce solution over the past couple quarters that further validated our strategy and have


helped to advance our overall business activity pretty significantly. Specifically, the feedback we’ve


received from clients that are now using our end-to-end eCommerce solution has been very


positive. The speed at which the segment of our business has grown and gained attention from


potential clients is very encouraging.
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


A lot of companies from traditional retailers to consumer product manufacturers have historically


looked to tap into the eCommerce space. However, they were deterred by either the high cost of


implementing an eCommerce solution in-house or by the loss of control over their business


associated with dealing with many of the outsourcers. Until our solution was released, we didn’t


believe that there was a provider available with the flexibility and scale of operations that we now


offer. It’s because of this mix of capabilities that we’ve now been able to partner with the likes of


Proctor & Gamble for the eStore, and with Carter’s and their OshKosh brand as well.


The momentum we are experiencing is particularly strong in several rapidly evolving market


segments, including the fashion, apparel and accessories, beauty and fragrance, and consumer


packaged goods or CPG segment. And looking forward, these segments in particular have helped


us establish a robust pipeline of new client service agreements and new clients, which Mike will


discuss here in just a minute.


As I review this quarter’s results, while revenue and EBITDA on a year-on-year is down, it’s


important to note that there are exciting changes happening within our financial results that are


disguised by the impact of the non-renewal of one large Service Fee client, this was an agency of


the U.S. government, whose business with us concluded in early 2009. Year-on-year result


comparisons, we believe, will begin to look much stronger beginning with the second quarter of


2010.


The impact on the loss of this large Service Fee client – or sorry, the impact that this large Service


Fee client had makes it difficult to see the strong underlying service re-growth that we are


beginning to experience from new clients added since the beginning of 2009. Just in the first


quarter of 2010, clients that were new to PFSweb since 2009 contributed more than 4 million of


service fees this past quarter. And as Mike will describe in a few minutes, we’re hopeful for this


strong momentum to continue.


The eCOST business also operated generally within our expectations for the quarter. On a year-


over-year basis, while revenue was flat, we continue to optimize our operating efficiencies and


customer acquisition model that has allowed us to show a continuing trend in improving bottom line


results. As I mentioned last quarter as well, the ever-growing strategic value of the intellectual


knowledge that we have gained operating the eCOST.com business has become quite important to


the advancement of our Interactive Marketing Services group and its offering inside our services


business segment. The creation of eStore Retail Services under the eCOST.com subsidiary has


become a critical strategic link for our Services and eCOST businesses to work together to address


client needs, particularly in the CPG segment.


With that information as a backdrop for this quarter’s results, I’m going to hand the call over here to


Mike who will give you some details specifically on the Services business. And then I’ll come back


to you and talk a little bit about eCOST. Mike?


Michael Willoughby, President, PFSweb Services Division


Thanks, Mark, and good morning everyone. Before beginning my prepared comments, I’d like to


remind you that when I refer to our Services business segment, I’m including both our supplies


distributor and our PFS Service Fee business, since both of these businesses have essentially the


same operating business model, although they have different financial models.


As Mark just stated, there has been a lot of excitement surrounding the Services business. We


continued to sign significant new client agreements that feature our end-to-end eCommerce


solution. And right now, we’re supporting about ten brand clients with this end-to-end solution,


including Carter’s OshKosh, Roots Canada, Luxottica Group’s Sunglass Hut, and Proctor &


Gamble. About four of these are either programs that we just launched and we haven’t announced