corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Wes, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’


remarks there will be question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. I will now turn the conference over to Garth Russell, Managing Director at KCSA


Strategic Communications. Please go ahead, sir.


Garth Russell, Head-Investor Relations


Thank you, Wes. Before turning the call over to management, I would like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call other than


historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect,


intend, will, guidance, confident, target, project and other similar expressions typically are used to


identify forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and involve and are


subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial


condition and operating results, which include, but are not limited to, the risk factors and other


qualifications contained in the PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-


Q and other reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC to which your attention is directed. Therefore,


actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these


forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these


forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandize sales, and certain ratios that


are used with these measures. In our press release with financial tables issued today which is


located on our website at www.pfsweb.com, you’ll find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial


measures, a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP measures


and a discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These financial


measures are included for the benefit of investors and should be considered in addition to and not


instead of GAAP measures.


At this time, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mark Layton, Chairman and CEO of


PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Great. Thank you, [ph] Bob (2:20). Good morning, everyone. I’d like to welcome you to our 2011


first quarter conference call. With me today are Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mike


Willoughby, President of our PFSweb businesses. This morning we will give you an overview of our


financial results and some color of the events that shaped the quarter ended March 31, 2011. And


following our prepared remarks, Tom, Mike and I will be available for questions.


These are exciting times for us at PFSweb. We continue to see outstanding growth opportunities


for our business, evidenced by the strong growth results in our service fees over the past two


quarters. We believe that this trend of solid growth will continue as we look to the future and is


being driven by not only the addition of new clients, but also from solid organic growth from our


existing client base.
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


One of the key drivers of our growth is coming from the manufacturer direct-to-consumer web


commerce channel, where we continue to see outstanding results as well as numerous new client


opportunities from a variety of well-known fashion, health and beauty and consumer packaged


goods companies. As a result, we are ahead of what we believe is the next big step forward for the


web commerce industry overall, putting us on the right path toward the long-term revenue growth


and profitability.


The first quarter of 2011 was marked with several key achievements and the continuation of a


number of themes that began to take form over the past couple of years for us, and which we will


continue to pursue during the remainder of 2011 and beyond.


Let me recap a few highlights for you. First, probably the most important achievement has been the


ongoing growth of our service fee revenue, which increased 18% this past quarter compared to the


same period last year. The increase in revenue was attributable to the successful ramp-up of client


programs launched within the last 18 months. This is important because it’s a clear indicator that


we’re succeeding alongside our clients, which is important for our long-term success.


Overall, we’re extremely pleased with the successful launch of many of our new client programs


over the past year, and we remain excited and optimistic about the long-term growth potential of


many of these new client programs.


Second, is the significant increase in the number of simultaneous new client programs we have


begun deploying since the beginning of the year. In total, we are now working on 11 new separate


contracted eCommerce client programs that are set to launch over the next six months. Eight of


those are our full End2End eCommerce solution.


In case you’re keeping track, we’ve included four of these programs as client wins in our previous


discussions and previous conference calls. Five more of the programs are incremental brands


under our Master agreement with one expanded client relationship. This is a trend we’re seeing


more and more frequently.


In addition to these 11 programs in development, as we recently discussed in our last call a little


more than one month ago, one of the new programs we launched and we launched with a big bang


was kate spade new york, a Liz Claiborne brand. I’ll let Mike discuss these recent launches and


disclose some additional client names, as we’re permitted to do so, here in a couple of minutes.


Next, we’re very excited about the string of new client programs in development for launch in 2011.


Perhaps even more exciting is the growing pipeline of new business that we’ve seen develop over


the past couple of quarters, and the rate at which we’re able to win new business.


In fact, 11 of the projects in development, or of the 11 projects in development, seven of the


projects have been contracted as part of three new or expanded client agreements since January


1st of this year. These new deals are with some of the world’s most recognizable companies and


iconic brands. Mike will also add some flavor to that here in a couple of minutes.


Although we’ve had success in closing new business agreements, meaning, these amounts came


out of our new business pipeline, we’ve also been busy adding to the pipeline of potential new


clients as well. And as such, our pipeline, based on client projections, still sits at more than $50


million in size, continuing to be at nearly the largest level in our history.


We believe this speaks for itself in terms of both the rapidly growing number of End2End


opportunities we are pursuing, and in the growing reputation that PFSweb has earned for


successfully implementing high quality and customizable solutions for our clients.