raw transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the PFSweb Investor Conference Call for the Fourth


Quarter and Year-End 2004. The Company's announcement of earnings was made after the close


of market yesterday, and is available at the company website www.pfsweb.com or on the Business


Wire database site. A rebroadcast of this conference call will be available for a limited time, starting


two hours after the conference and can be accessed by dialing this number, 973-341-3080 and


providing the pin number 5776543. The replay also will be available at the company's website for a


limited time. I will now turn the call over to Gibb Dawson, PFSweb’s Corporate Controller, who will


review the Safe Harbor statements and introduce today's speakers. Mr. Dawson.


Gibb Dawson, Corporate Controller


Thanks Mat. Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the quarterly investor analyst


conference call for PFSweb. I am joined today by (audio dip) Mark Layton and our CFO, Tom


Madden. We will begin with a few minutes of prepared comments, followed by a period for


questions and answers. This call will discuss our financial results for the quarter and calendar year


ended December 31, 2004. Before we move along, let me provide you with the following


information.


During this call we may discuss the company's targets for financial or operating performance for


one or more future periods. I stress at the outset that these are targets and are not predictions of


actual performance. The company's actual performance has in the past and may in the future


deviate from its targets. We undertake no responsibility to update or reaffirm these targets or any


other forward-looking statement at any later day, even if new information becomes available or


other events occur in the future.


Further, statements made in this call other than those consisting of historical information, such as


statements regarding future revenue growth, operations, and profitability are forward-looking


statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There are many factors that could cause our


results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements. These factors


include our ability to retain and expand relationships with existing clients and attract new clients;


our reliance on the fees generated by the transaction volume or product sales of our clients; our


dependence upon our agreements with IBM; our reliance on our clients' projections or transaction


volume or product sales; our client mix and the seasonality of their business; our ability to finalize


pending contracts; the impact of strategic alliances and acquisitions; trends in the market for our


services; trends in e-commerce; whether we can continue and manage growth; changes in the


trend toward outsourcing; increased competition; our ability to generate more revenue and maintain


sustainable profitability; effects of changes in profit margins; the customer concentration of our


business; the unknown effects of possible system failures and rapid changes in technology, trends


in government regulations both foreign and domestic, foreign currency risks and other risks of


operating in foreign countries, potential litigation involving our e-commerce intellectual property


rights, our dependency upon key personnel, our ability to raise additional capital or obtain additional


financing, the impact of new accounting standards and rules regarding revenue recognition, stock


options and other matters, changes in accounting rules or the interpretation of those rules, our


relationship with and our guarantees of the working capital indebtedness of our subsidiary supplies


distributors and our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to borrow under current financing


arrangements and maintain compliance with debt covenants. The complete description of these


factors, as well as other factors that could materially affect our business, as set forth in our most


recent Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2003. Thanks again for your time this


morning. And I now like to turn the call over to our CEO and senior partner Mark Layton. Mark?
raw transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Mark Layton, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Gibbs. Safe Harbor statement gets any longer, we will have to offer free night stays in


the local hotel. Today is a great day at PFSweb, with the announcement of our full year profit for


2004 and also record revenue and profitability for the fourth quarter of 2004. We believe we’ve


reached a point where our long sought goal of sustainable profitability can be declared achieved.


I would like to congratulate our entire team of people here at PFSweb and I would like you join me


in that and thank them for their commitment, their creativity, the strategic contribution and no quit


attitude that collectibly allowed us to reach this important milestone in our company’s history. For


those of you who have followed the history at PFSweb, you may recall that tumultuous times of


excess capacity, mounting losses and questions of financial viabilities that the company faced in


the 2000 and 2001 timeframe, the Dot Bomb Years I would like to call it. To watch this great team


put this company back together, brick-by-brick, piece-by-piece is one of the most gratifying


chapters of our management career thus far. It’s time for some hi-fi during the halls of PFS.


Last fall we challenged our management team to develop their vision of our future. We debated


and analyzed our strengths and weaknesses, we evaluated the competitive landscape and we


asked our clients about what their vision for PFSweb might be and what their requirements held for


the future. From those meetings, we have updated our strategic operating plans for 2005 and


beyond. And we have adopted a few significant evolutionary changes. First, we are looking to


capitalize on our growth momentum in the diversification in our client industry sectors that we


experienced in 2004. Thus our target market has been expanded to include a much broader group


of Fortune 500 global 1,000 companies. Whereas, we previously focused on technology, consumer


products, and the government industry sectors, we now feel that we’ve got the expertise, the


momentum, the experience, stability, and technology platform to broaden our service offerings in


the many other industry segments, and we are already there. Those include aerospace,


healthcare, automotive and other large equipment manufacturers.


The second significant evolutionary change for us this year, involves us creating – focusing on


creating a sustainable revenue growth model for the future. This is a very important topic of our


discussions and that we’ve come away with the confidence and understanding that we believe we


now understand how to attack this going forward. Over the last few years, we’ve experienced more


and more opportunities for contracts with much larger contract value. Going forward, our focus will


be to further accelerate the number of larger contracts that we pursue. We believe that this


strategic avenue provides us with the greater stability to leverage our team of experts across more


and more supply chain transactions. And that really is the model of our business as leveraging


those experts and putting more and more business transactions efficiently down the hi-tech supply


chain that we’ve created.


We continue to expand our operations and technology infrastructure to meet existing client growth


requirements as well as our new client demand. This last quarter you’ll have seen that we added


an additional 160,000 square feet of distribution space in DeSoto County, Mississippi basically right


outside Memphis, to provide capability for our new service parts facility for one of our existing


clients, this is was a contract expansion from where things are. We are also looking at additional


space in the DeSoto County area to relocate one of our facilities there that we are growing, no


specific plans in that area yet, but you are going to see further expansion from us as our business


growth continues to drive the needs for that.


This last year between the 160,000 feet I just mentioned and the other unnamed client that we


have, we probably added something in the neighborhood of 650,000 feet to our distribution


capacity. So, that’s significant growth for us on the distribution side. We also continue to make


regular expansion investments in our technology infrastructure to help us ensure ample capacity,


and continuing operational excellence for all of our clients, future and present. We believe our


focus on quality of performance and client satisfaction continues to be unmatched in our industry