corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christy , and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the PFSweb Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions] After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Todd Fromer. Please go ahead, sir.


Todd Fromer, Investor Relation


Thank you, Christy. Before I turn the call over to management, I’d like to make the following


remarks concerning forward-looking statements. All statements in this conference call other than


historical facts are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect,


intend, will, guidance, confident, target and other similar expressions typically are used to identify


forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve and are


subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may affect PFSweb’s business, financial


condition, and operating results, which include but are not limited to the risk factors in other


qualifications contained in PFSweb’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,


and other reports filed by PFSweb with the SEC, to which your attention is directed. Therefore,


actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or implied by these


forward-looking statements. PFSweb expressly disclaims any intent or obligation to update these


forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may also present certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA,


adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, free cash flow, merchandise sales, and certain ratios that


use these measures. In our press release with financial statements issued last Friday, which is


located on our website at PFSweb.com, you will find our definitions of these non-GAAP financial


measures, a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the closest GAAP


measures, and a discussion about why we think these non-GAAP measures are relevant. These


financial measures are included for the benefit of the investors and should be considered in


addition to and not instead of GAAP measures. At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the floor


over to Mr. Mark Layton, Chairman and CFO of PFSweb. Mark, the floor is yours.


Mark C. Layton, Chairman, Senior Partner and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Todd. Good morning, everyone. I’d like to welcome you to our 2009 Second Quarter


Conference Call. With me here today at our Plano headquarters is Mike Willoughby, President of


our Services business; and on the phone offsite is Tom Madden, our Chief Financial Officer. Again,


good morning, everyone. Today I’ll provide you with an overview of our financial results for the


second quarter and add some color on the events that shape that quarter. Following our prepared


comments, Tom, Mike, and I will be available for some questions.


When comparing this year’s results to last year’s or to 2007, it’s important to kind of stand back and


consider the economic challenges and the changes to our client mix that are currently affecting our


business today. Overall, I’m pleased with the way our management team has forecasted certain


issues ahead of time and adjusted our operations and costs accordingly. Over the past six months,


we have reduced our cost of operations significantly.


First, the flexibility of our business model allowed us to successfully shed variable costs associated


with the rather significant changes we have seen in our client mix here. Second, we have also
corrected transcript


PFSweb, Inc.
 
PFSW
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


made various adjustments to react to changes in our existing client activity levels as the economic


slowdown began to perpetuate itself earlier this year. Our Service Fee clients have been great


partners in this process giving us early and valuable insight to their own forecasts of activity. This


information allowed us to better prepare and execute necessary adjustments and our activities and


expense levels in order to ensure we were aligned with their forecasts. We believe that a keen


ability to read and react early to challenges is cornerstone to ensuring longstanding financial


viability, and I’m pleased thus far with our management team’s execution during this most recent


period of economic challenge.


As Mike will cover in further detail shortly, I’m very excited about the work that the Services


segment of our business has done in getting our End2End solution up and running over this past


year. Not only have we proven its capabilities with our client Roots Canada and in two sites


launched earlier this year for the Luxury goods retailer that we’ve discussed in the past. But this


new solution has also help put us in the running for a significant amount of new business that is


currently in different phases of implementation and or contract finalization. Also, our eCOST.com


team has done a solid job in coming up with new ways to battle the economic slowdown in


consumer spending through various creative promotional activities while also driving strong growth


in our club memberships where we find our most frequently buying and profitable customers.


We currently believe our Q2 result as we have announced them today is our low water point in


terms of our overall financial results. As I’ve mentioned, the economic challenges combined with


our change in mix have required us to react with various actions to address our cost structure in


order to ensure acceptable ongoing financial results. We are beginning to see a steadying in the


economic trends. And combined with the upcoming seasonal trends we expect in Q3 and Q4 and


with the solid contribution we expect from various new customer implementations in the next couple


of quarters, we believe our overall financial results will show solid improvements from this low point


in the quarters to come.


While there is still some heavy lifting to do, we’re pointed in the right direction. We know that the


next couple of quarters will continue to be challenging as we seek to balance growth with the


disciplined cost control measures that we have put in place. However, we’re confident that PFSweb


will persevere and that we will emerge an even stronger company with a healthier client portfolio


and a stronger service offering than we have ever had in our past.


With this as a backdrop, let me turn the call over to Mike who will give you some details about the


Services business segments specifically. Mike?


Michael Willoughby, Senior Partner and President, Services Division


Thank you, Mark, and good morning, everyone. Before beginning my prepared comments, I’d like


to remind you that when I refer to the Services business segment, that I’m including both the


supplies distributor and our PFSweb Service Fee businesses. And both of these businesses have


essentially the same operating model although they have a different underlying financial model.


As Mark just mentioned, our Services business has been able to adjust to the impact of the


economic downturn and a non-renewal of a large U.S. government contract. And as mentioned in


last quarter’s conference call, as we prepared our 2009 plan, we recognized that there would be a


financial trough for our business in 2009. This is due to the change in client mix and the sluggish


economy. Our plan has required financial adjustments to be made to our business, to minimize the


depth of the trough, and to focus on managing our financial resources appropriately so we can


ensure our financial foundation remains strong. These adjustments along with our drive to continue


to add significant new business activities we believe will be a successful formula for improving


financial performance in the quarters to come.