Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President- IR & Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Fiona Maclean — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start] callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS conference call presenting the company's First Quarter 2017 Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President-Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the annual report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård, and welcome to all that have dialed in. We will start with slide 3 in the presentation deck that we used earlier this morning. As already pre-warned, we are off to a slow start for 2017. However, with a significant recorded order book increase. The first quarter reflects a quite challenging winter season with low project demand and excess supply. EBITDA, $30 million, however, pre-funding level came in at healthy 118%. And, overall, the first quarter is not particularly soft compared to the more recent low cycle quarters, with a relatively healthy revenue to investment ratio.

In the quarter, we completed the subsequent offering after the refinancing in the fourth quarter last year, delivering $35 million in additional equity. We also took delivery of Ramform Hyperion, the last of the Ramform Titan-class vessels, giving a better operating competitiveness obviously, but more importantly in the current environment, a lower cash flow requirements from CapEx going forward. Which means we can do with the – a more low – or it's easier to meet a free cash flow neutral operational level. Significant order book increase has necessarily improved the revenue visibility quite significantly for the current year.

And then jumping to slide 5, order book, you see have increased to $340 million by the end of the quarter, of which a significant increase comes with the backlog for pre-funded MultiClient project, which again is part of the improved visibility for the next coming quarters when it comes to pre-funding of the MultiClient work we planned to do. There is also some increase in the backlog that is driven from volume and price increases that I will come back to later on.

Vessel booking taken May 4 is 100% for the Q2, 75% for Q3, 35% for Q4, and 15% for Q1. Somewhat better than this time last year, in particular when it comes to Q4 and Q1. And Q3 is significantly up from what we last reported, which was like 30%.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to take us through some of the numbers.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 7, consolidated statement of profit and loss summary. Revenues of $154.8 million in the quarter compared to $203 million Q1 2016. The revenue declined compared to Q1 2016. It's due to lower MultiClient and Imaging revenues, somewhat but very limited offset by [indiscernible] (05:29) the higher contract revenues.

EBITDA, $30.1 million. Operating loss, $83.5 million for the quarter impacted by high amortization rate in the quarter. We had a 88% amortization rate which is the consequence of relatively low MultiClient sales and the linear amortization policy we applied for our library of completed data. We had impairment and other charges recorded in the quarter of $10.2 million and a net income – or rather a net loss for the quarter of $106 million.

And into the next slide, slide 8, Q1 2017 operational highlights. We had a total MultiClient revenues of $79 million. Half of that, $39.7 million of pre-funding which corresponds to a pre-funding level of 118% when applied to the $33.6 million of MultiClient cash investment in the quarter. Late sales revenues were $39.3 million.

The marine contract revenues, $61.4 million, slightly higher than Q1 last year but still reflecting a challenging market environment and very low pricing for first quarter.

Moving to slide 9, MultiClient revenues per region. The late sales in the quarter were dominated by Europe and South America. The Q1 pre-funding was relatively low due to low MultiClient investment activity projects. For the quarter, we're mainly in the Middle East and Asia Pacific. We will have that gradual increase of well pre-funded MultiClient projects through – increasingly through the second and third quarter. This will benefit the pre-funding revenues for – progressively for these quarters.

We'll then jump up to slide number 13, which has the heading group costs focus delivers results.

We continue the strong cost trend. Cost is at a slight sequential increase in Q1 2017, and this is primarily due to somewhat higher utilization of the fleet compared to Q4. Our quarterly cost will increase somewhat [indiscernible] (08:17) due to Ramform Hyperion and Vanguard commencing operations in the first part of second quarter. Full-year gross cash cost still expected to end at $700 million.

Then moving to slide 16, which will be my last slide, balance sheet key numbers. Liquidity reserve of $273.8 million at quarter end, that's a few million higher than at the start of the quarter. Net interest bearing debt increased by $63.5 million, and that is primarily as a result of taking delivery of Ramform Hyperion in the quarter, which accounted for $87 million of the CapEx that we had in the first quarter.

The total leverage ratio, 4.88:1 at the end of March. We have some headroom to the requirement in our revolving credit facility, and it is fairly likely that the headroom will increase going forward.

With that, I end my part of the presentation and give the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you, Gottfred. We move to slide 20, marine seismic market. We do see that there's substantially improved cash flow among our clients, which we have seen being reported lately, supposedly impact on moving them into a more say controlled and predictable environment when it comes to seismic spend even though still restricted by restricted budgets. We have, for the coming two quarters, seen some opportunities in particular in 4D production market and in certain short term windows where there has been capacity constraints in certain markets, even though contract market is still challenging.

I see some analysts try to interpret this as us predicting a market uptick. What we try to do is not to do that but to state what we have achieved in the backlog of the market for the coming two quarters. The industry is more or less fully booked for Q2 and Q3. Still limited visibility for the winter season even though again from the fact of the booking, the visibility is somewhat improved from what it was this time last year.

Then I skip to the slide number 23 which speaks a little bit in particular to the 4D since that's sort of an important element in understanding the booking for Q2 and Q3. And as you can see from the graph, 4D project came to a low point in 2016. We had not anticipated this to go as deep and we had viewed that 4D would be more regular repetitive activity, but there has been number of reasons for pushing this out in time. But, of course, you cannot do that for an unlimited time then the value of 4D disappears. So now we see they are coming back with strength, and we see more than a doubling of 4Ds in 2017 over 2016. And we have secured more than half of those as part of our backlog.

We expect this activity to increase further as we indicate here in our estimate for 2018. The main driver in the 4D market in volumes is North Sea, West Africa and Brazil. This is a market where we are well positioned to several of these bid requests ask for multi-component streamers where as you may all be aware, there are fewer contractors having that technology.

Also, if you look at this in a broader sense on the marine contract market, we [ph] feel this (12:56), over time, will trend to become a smaller share of the overall market. But as you see from the graph here, 4D is a sub segment of that market that actually will, in our view, grow significantly over the next few years to come back to a more normal level.

We move then to slide number 25, which is a more specific outlook to the next two quarters. I'll start by saying the same as we did this morning when it comes to late sales which is obviously the most difficult one to predict. We're off to a better start in Q2 driven by the UK license round that ended up favorably to where our data sits.

Then to the contract markets where you see we have tried to illustrate prices achieved in terms of day rate for a contract last year versus what sits in the backlog for this year. So there's no estimating of what could come in the backlog, but it is what is signed as backlog for the two quarters that we refer to here. And we have tried to compare also giving you numbers for share of capacity in contract and MultiClients in their respective quarters. And also even more detail to give you some indication or some specifics on the regions we will operate in these quarters.

One important thing to observe is we have a significant increase in MultiClient in Q3. That is the quarter where the Canadian market is mainly open for weather reasons, and that's where we then will add significant capacity to Canada in the MultiClient [ph] models (15:12) this year.

The comparable contract day rates are, again compared to actuals versus contracted, up 15% in Q2, and we will deploy 70% of our capacity for contract in Q2. Similarly, it is up 35% in what is contracted for Q3, and that will represent 25% of the capacity for Q3. So, on [ph] a weighted (15:44) average basis, there is average price increase built in here of about 19%, and this is driven by, as earlier referred to, some pricing opportunities and an increased share of 4D in the portfolio where we can take out a better premium for the value of the offering we have.

We also see increased interest for seismic with – what some of our clients call data with longer shelf life, meaning you can use them for more than just a first exploratory survey. And, of course, by investing a bit more upfront to save money by not having to do another survey before drilling and before production, which we think is a trend that now as the oil companies come back to more normal operations might be reinforced and play to our favor. So that is a bit about contract and it's also a bit about MultiClient. And combined with Gottfred's statement about healthy pre-funding for these two quarters, there is at least a better refined detail of what to expect for Q2 and Q3.

To the next slide, slide 26. Guidance. Only smaller changes, MultiClient cash investments expected to be in a range slightly below the approximately $275 million we guided earlier, now $250 million to $275 million. And similarly then, the [ph] share (17:25) of capacity use from MutliClient at approximately 50%.

Slide 27, in conclusion, significant order book increase, new build program completed, better position to generate free cash flow, adequate liquidity position, continuous focus on cost and CapEx, industry leading MultiClient performance, and needless to say with the backlog visibility improved for 2017.

And with that, I hand over to operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [ph] Speaker (18:45) your first question. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Yes, it's Fiona Maclean from Merrill Lynch. I want to understand a little bit more the competitive environment at the moment booked in contact and MultiClient. We've obviously seen a very nice increase in your backlog over the quarter and you have – you made comment [ph] further at this point (19:12) about pricing. So we have a [ph] reasonably good understanding (19:15) as to how the environment is treating you at the moment. Can you talk about what some of the main competitor within the seismic landscape are saying and doing as well and how they're behaving particularly around pricing and margin? Thank you.

Yeah, I mean what has been reported so far from peers is not consistent pricing-wise with what we are seeing. And I think it's been more driven by securing booking for the boats rather than trying to get more out of the pricing. That is a choice everyone has. You may be too early in a market that has the opportunity and you may be too late and get stuck with IT capacities. These are different decisions that will drive your results basically. We have booked higher prices, and that's the only thing we state basically here.

MultiClient is a different game. Competition there involves a bit more than just pricing. It involves seeing opportunities where you think you can capitalize down the road on the overall sales so that you get over time healthy [ph] sales to (20:31) investment ratio and a good cash flow over time. But in our experience, it never hurts starting off with a good and high pre-funding. In fact, the areas in the world where we have the highest pre-funding are also the areas that are delivering the highest return.

And currently, the two best areas we have MultiClient-wise is our two strongholds, the North Sea and Canada. But we are pursuing opportunities in many other markets. Currently we have activity in Cyprus in connection with the recent license rounds there. Does that answer your question or would you like some more?

No. That is fine. I have a follow-up. In terms of the vessel capacity that we have active in the industry today and the level of demand that you are seeing this quarter, next quarter and going into the winter, what is your best guess from a timing perspective when you would expect to see some of the stacked capacity coming back on to the market?

It's very hard to have a view on that. Most of the stacked capacity now does not have streamers and – which means to bring them back, you need a $50 million, $60 million investment per boat. So there is a rationale answer to your question in terms, so you would have to see pricing 50-plus percent up from where a [ph] trough (22:09) for that to make sense.

And then there might be an opportunistic answer which is people might be willing to take bets on an upcoming market and start to invest earlier in streamers. There's also a delivery time involved here. But for us, it is as we see it now too early to consider increased investments.

There's also an element that I talked about this morning about expecting more swing or volatility between the two summer quarters and the two winter quarters than likely has been the case earlier since we have more active regions in the North Atlantic than earlier in terms of Canada, Ireland, and the Barents, in addition to the North Sea.

And in many ways, one of the key markets that were active in the winter season, Brazil, is muted compared to what it historically have been. And that's another uncertainty that should logically push the eagerness to buy more streamers out in time a little further.

Okay. That's fair. Okay. My final question. If you were to take a decision today to reactivate a vessel that is stacked and you chose to spend $50 million to $60 million on a new set of streamers, how many weeks or months would it take for that vessel to be then able to hit the market and start operating?

For us, that would be about a year.

Okay. That's very clear. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We would now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from SpareBank 1 Markets. Digging some more into that slide show in the price improvement for this summer season, which statements would you say describe the situation the best, either that, one, that your competitors sold out early and you're left being the only player with available capacity and [ph] well therefore (24:26) able to improve prices; or two, that the prices last year in the second and third quarter 2016 were unusually low for you and that the price improvement in 2017 is more a reflection of PGS coming back to more normal levels; or three, that the clients wanted to use PGS technology and prices were of a lesser issue?

We don't have oil services, so...

Since you have [indiscernible] (24:55).

I think there is a mix of all in here. I mean, even the price levels, we are up to now are not sustainable for this industry. So I mean, we are coming from an unusually low pricing level last year for the whole industry not only for PGS but for the whole industry. Even those who claim they can live on lower rates, run out of cash every quarter or lose cash every quarter, so there's clearly some miscalculation in terms of what the cash breakeven is and what the actual cash burn is. So the industry needs higher rates to be sustainable. And in order to give a decent return on capital shareholders, they need even higher rates.

So we are not talking about here any sort of a balanced state of market, but there is an element here of some of the others booking too early. There is an element of some desired technology in the 4D space. And of course, we're coming from an exceptionally low level that we have never seen before in the history of 3D seismic relative to cost levels. And all of those are elements of explaining what is going on here in principle.

You just delivered EBITDA in the first quarter of $30 million. Then you are guiding for a MultiClient utilization in the second quarter which will be roughly at the equal level. Even though you will have a bigger fleet with Hyperion and Vanguard being active, are you comfortable with the consensus expecting you to more than triple your EBITDA in the second quarter versus the first quarter?

I mean, we think we have given you quite a lot of data points to do a reasonable assessment of the second and third quarter and then there was some additional information given on the call. So yes, the percentage is up somewhat from Q1 to Q2 in terms of percent of utilization and as you correctly referred to it's a percentage of a higher number.

In addition, Gottfred said there is one more 2D vessel operating in the second quarter in the MultiClient space. And in addition, there is more MultiClient imaging reprocessing projects going on in the second quarter which will raise the investment level over – a bit more over the first quarter. Then we have given you price increase in the contract market that should contribute in the same EBITDA calculation.

And then there was this statement from the CFO saying it's likely that the headroom under the covenant calculation will improve quarter-by-quarter for the next couple of quarters. And those are the data points we have given and are prepared to give at the current point in time.

Okay. Many thanks. [Operator Instructions]

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference over to today's speaker for any additional or closing remarks.

Well, that concludes the conference call, so thank you all for participating and goodbye.

Thank you. This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.