corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President, Group Communication


Good morning and welcome everyone. Welcome to this presentation of the Fourth Quarter and


Preliminary Annual Results for PGS. My name is Tore Langballe responsible for Corporate


Communications in the company. The presentation today will be given by CEO, Mr. Jon Erik


Reinhardsen and CFO, Gottfred Langseth. It will be followed by a Q&A session. Just a couple of


practical matters before we start, in this room, there are emergency exits at the back and through


the door marked by green exit signs. No emergency drills are planned. So, if the siren sounds,


please evacuate immediately. There is also a cautionary statement showing on the screen here


and in the page 2 of the presentation, I kindly ask you to read through carefully. The presentation


today is being broadcast on the Web. That means that the audience in the auditorium here will


have to use microphones when posing questions. That should be it. Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you to all and good morning everyone. The headline for today is basically a record year,


and then we’re going to spend time talking about how we are positioned for meeting the, what we


see ahead in terms of this year and the markets challenges we might expect. Q4 ended up being a


strong year in terms of performance in MultiClient, strong on, sorry. On contract, we ended up with


the margin in the high 40s. We have sort of indicated an EBIT margin for the year slightly below


50. We ended up with 49.3 I think exactly; so very healthy operation from a quarterly perspective


and on an annual perspective. More importantly, in times where cash is king or cash is God, we


ended up with a record cash flow from operations of 258 million, so slightly north of a quarter of $1


billion in the quarter, and which substantially increases on all parameters; revenue, EBITDA and


EBIT from the Q4 2007. Actually, on an annual basis, EBIT increases with 42%; this before


impairment charges that we will come back to later in the presentation.


Backlog is still healthy north of $1 billion, and I’ll come back to that. We have launched our First 3D


GeoStreamer survey late in the fourth quarter. It’s operated since then exceptionally successful in


terms of operating performance due to the fact that we are towing deeper, we get much less


weather downtime, to the extent that we are starting to consider possible North Sea operations in


the fall and winter season. And we do not believe that data quality is of the high quality we had


expected, which also [inaudible] for more resolution, deeper penetration, et cetera.


In addition, we will come back to the financing, which is the same as it has been, strong long-term


low interest. So, in short, we are very well positioned to beat a potentially challenging market. To


our numbers, you see the strong quarter-on-quarter improvement from the same quarter ‘07, and


most importantly, cash flow from operations are $258 million. On the backlog, the order book now


sits at 1.065 billion, high in historical perspective, actually the third best we’ve ever had and driven


by another strong North Sea season. We have six vessels committed to the North Sea. We are


actually considering moving a seventh vessel, the GeoStreamer vessel into the North Sea for the


North Sea season driven by demand we still see for the season.


Part of the backlog sits there because it’s driven by rig commitments, oil company commitments to


licenses and therefore is not exposed to the uncertainty that many speculates around in terms of is


the backlog currency. We’ve seen very little movements in the backlog. We’ve had one job that’s


been canceled. We have seen postponements of bids and leads, but very little negative


movements on the backlog. So, what you see here is on the net of all these rumors and still at very


healthy margins in any historical perspective. So, what we’ve built our backlog now since the


previous quarter is not taken at dumping prices or anything like that, and that’s why we’re able to


keep the guidance which we will come back to later on.


So, then I’ll hand over to Gottfred to go into more detail.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. I would start by reviewing key numbers for the segment starting with Marine. We had


contract revenues of 233.7 million in Q4 in Marine, that’s 51% up compared to Q4 2007. We spent


more of the capacity acquiring contract in the quarter, 64%. MultiClient pre-funding was US$81.4


million, which is up from 72.9 in Q4 ‘07, which is actually quite strong considering that we invested


less and used less capacity for MultiClient acquisition. Pre-funding revenues amounted to 149% of


capitalized investment in MultiClient in the quarter, so significantly more than 100% pre-funding in


the quarter.


Late sales 49.2 million, that’s down from 71.3 million in Q4 ‘07 primarily driven by a slowdown of


late sales in Gulf of Mexico. EBIT for Marine excluding impairment charges was 149 million, which


is 47% up from last year. The contract margin in the quarter was 48%, which resulted in a two-year


contract, EBIT margin in the Marine segment of 49%. The vessel statistics have been disclosed


already a while back, so just very briefly 77% utilization in the quarter.


Steaming was quite high relating to steaming to new jobs and out of the North Sea, at the end of


the North Sea season. We had 3% yard time, which primarily related to Atlantic Explorer for


maintenance and rigging as a GeoStreamer vessel. Then to the chart showing development


sequentially of MultiClient, total MultiClient revenues, total revenue was $130 million in the quarter,


sequentially up. We had higher pre-funding revenues primarily as a result of a strong pre-funding


in Brazil and good pre-funding on some 2D projects in the quarter. We had lower late sales,


primarily as a result of year-on-year reduction in Gulf of Mexico and Brazil, but partially offset by


very strong sales in Europe. We had $23 million of late sales in Europe in Q4, and also Asia


Pacific where we had $13 million of late sales in the quarter, which is the best quarter by far in Asia


Pacific ever on the MultiClient side, and it included sales of 2D MultiClient GeoStreamer data that


we acquired earlier in the year.


Couple of comments on the key numbers, otherwise revenues from Marine 390.8 in the quarter,


that’s 19% up. I commented on contract revenues on MultiClient already. Processing and other


revenues is slightly down sequentially primarily since we spent more of the data processing


capacity in fourth quarter to process on the library rather than external revenues; that is not a trend,


but an event in the quarter. Data processing considering the full-year results and growth of our


data processing operations, we have had a tremendously strong year.


Operating cost is sharply down sequentially, I will revert to that. And lastly, I will comment on


MultiClient amortization in the quarter which is on, as it where it totals $58.9 million. And it is in


percentage terms, amortization as a percentage of sales higher than we have experienced earlier,


it’s around 45%. It is impacted by write-downs on some individual surveys that are included in


amortization. That amounts to $5.6 million. And also what we call backstop amortization which is


the additional minimum amortization that we do on surveys when they fall due for the sort of five-


year First Amortization rule. That amount totaled $8.5 million. So, that’s included in the


amortization cost.


Then moving on to cost development, this slide shows the sequential development of operating


cost in the Marine segment, and with operating – this is total operating cost, this is some of the


costs that is reported as cash operating expense in the P&L and the costs that are capitalized to


the library. Adding those together, will get you to $206 million in fourth quarter, which is


significantly down both sequentially and compared to Q4 last year. It’s $50 million down from


quarter three and 16 – excuse me $14 million from Q4 ‘07.


Primary drivers for that are reduced fuel cost, significant, reduced cost relating to yard, not that


significant, but, but still matters a bit, and reduction in third-party chartered capacity, which reduced