Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's Second Quarter and First-Half 2015 Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Rune Olav Pedersen, General Counsel and SVP Communications and Marketing. At today's call management will make some short opening remarks, referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the line for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I would like to make comments on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in PGS Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to the CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård. The PGS strategy is founded on our ability to balance contract in MultiClient business, to harvest from both these market segments, and where MultiClient is expected to take a stronger role at the downturns while we expect to harvest superior returns from the contract market in the peaks of the cycle. So also for this quarter where MultiClient has been the main carrier of the results, and within MultiClient mainly coming from pre-funding, we ended up with an EBITDA of $125.1 million, MultiClient pre-funding of $112 million, which represents a pre-funding level of 152%. We have maintained strong liquidity reserve of roughly $550 million.

On the weak side is the contract market that negatively impacts revenues and margin and where we see pressure also going forward coming into Q4 and Q1. To counter that, we focus on a number of areas, most importantly our cost reduction program, where we started the year with an ambition to reduce costs – actual costs in 2015 compared to actually 2014 with $150 million. That has been raised to $220 million in the last quarter. Now we raise that further to cost reduction of actuals of $250 million.

Needless to say, since a lot of this happens during the year and not at the start of the year, the actual run rate of cost reductions going into next year at an even lower level. Given the market developments, we now expect full year 2015 EBITDA to come in the lower range of the guiding interval that we launched in December 2014.

I then go to slide number 5 in the slide pack we presented today. Order book at the end of the quarter sits at the soft side of what we have seen. There are three main reasons for that. Number one, obviously, we have from Q2 less capacity to fill going into the next three quarters. Secondly, there is a lower price basis in the work currently than the average work that was secured over the previous quarters. And thirdly, also less capacity booked at the end of the second quarter.

Now, the latter point has improved quite a bit since the cut of the quarter and the vessel booking as we have it today or as of July 20 is that we are 95% present booked to Q3. So of course, still some risk of idle capacity in Q3, but much more comfortable than we have been. 65% booked for Q4, again that is 65% of a lower number. So in reality, we have 2.5 vessels roughly left to book for Q4, which we think is fully achievable and then 30% booked for Q1 and 5% for Q2 2016.

We continue to give priority to maintaining good schedule continuity and not for any price, but I think our prefunding numbers showed that we are giving due care to securing the right level of prefunding when we move vessels into MultiClient.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred to take us through the numbers.

Thank you. I'll start with slide number 7, consolidated statement of operations summary. The Q2 revenues ended up $255.8 million. We saw significant market-driven revenue decline of 24% in Q2 and 19% year-to-date as compared to the same periods last year. The decline is primarily driven by marine contract, which is quite significantly down. MultiClient revenues both for the quarter and year-to-date are up, while external imaging revenues are flat both in the quarter and year-to-date.

Cash cost reductions secure a relatively unchanged EBITDA margin of approximately 50% and EBITDA is down 27% in Q2 compared to last year and 18% year-to-date, which is in line with the revenue reduction in the period. We did record, as announced early June, a loss in the second quarter relating to the operating sale and leaseback of PGS Apollo and the loss amounted to $56.9 million.

I then move to slide 8, Q2 2015 operational highlights. We had total MultiClient revenues of $145.5 million in the quarter, pre-funding of $112 million corresponding to 152% pre-funding rate. The strong pre-funding performance is due to solid funding for the ongoing acquisition projects, high efficiency of vessels and also good sales from projects in the processing stage.

Late sales in the second quarter amounted to $33.5 million. Marine contract revenues $84.4 million, contract EBIT margin on negative 15%, obviously weak with a sequential improvement from the minus 14% we have been in the first quarter, an improvement is due to improved vessel utilization.

Moving to slide number 9, MultiClient revenues per region, pre-funding revenues were highest in Europe followed by Africa and North America. Our sales in the second quarter were driven by our strong GeoStreamer offering in a resilient North Sea MultiClient market, and if you look at bars over time, the blue color is Europe, it's evident that the volume offset in Europe holds up quite well despite the general softness in the market. In the second quarter, Europe accounted for 45% of our MultiClient revenues.

Moving a few slides down to slide number 12, group cost focus delivers results. The graphic showed quarterly development of our cash cost base. The strong cash cost development continues in the second quarter, and year to date cost is now 27% down from first half 2014. Second quarter is sequentially slightly up from Q1 due to higher vessel utilization, cost deferral from that project from Q1 to Q2 as explained in Q1 presentation, and some one-off effects benefiting the Q1, cost. The sequential increase of cost from Q1 to Q3 is quite a bit lower than what we indicated a quarter back, due to positive cost variances in the second quarter.

I then move down through the balance sheet, which is my last slide. We have a strong balance sheet, position. Our liquidity reserve is more than $0.5 billion, $545 million, the new build program is fully funded with undrawn export credit facilities covering all remaining yards installments. And, lastly, the net interest baring debt just shy of $1 billion dollars, ended at $995 million, which is quite a bit down from where we started the year.

With that, I give the word back to you, Jon Erik.

Thank you. We move to slide 18, market characteristics. We continue to see a cautious spending pattern among the oil companies, which obviously impact seismic demand, relatively low visibility in all regions, and very low pricing for contract work, with some further price pressure seen as we move into Q4 and Q1 pricing.

On the other hand, there is obviously a minimum volume available as we indicate on a slide further back describing the square kilometers acquired over a year. But quite a bit of that actually for the time being half of that is being played out in the MultiClient space, so even more than half of this.

We see the need for further capacity reduction to balance the market. The capacity has come down in our estimates 13% so far this year. We think there is a need for another 15 to balance the market, and we think and expect the weak market to continue well into 2016.

Our response to this is to influence the factors we can do things about; continued sales focus, relentless efforts to take out more cost, strict management of cash and capacity. And on the capacity side, obviously if we come to a position where the marginal capacity cannot be sold at a cash accretive point, there is no point in investing further cash in maintaining operations and therefore we would end up adjusting capacity, again if and when we come to that point.

The next slide illustrates bidding activity, it's the way we monitor this activity over many years in a consistent way; low bidding, impact pricing. Currentlym best contract opportunities sits in Asia Pacific and especially in Myanmar with emerging opportunities more recently in West Africa. Be aware that this graph excludes MultiClient, which over this time period has grown as a more and more significant part of the seismic market.

Measured in square kilometers, the total market last year was roughly split 50-50 between MultiClient and contract, and this year we expect another relatively significant shift in favor our MultiClient to a 60-40 distribution of work between MultiClient and contract measured in square kilometers.

We then move to [indiscernible] (14:08) to slide number 25. With all this said, we see ourselves as well-positioned to navigate in this challenging market. We display resilient MultiClient performance. We have a robust balance sheet. We have no debt maturities before 2018. We continue to take our costs – we have cost effective operations, not the least demonstrated in the MultiClient space this quarter that has contributed to push the pre-funding percentage higher.

We are continuing to invest in productivity in dollars mainly represented by the new vessels coming to the market next year. And we see clearly how the big type vessels delivers better return and better margins than the older vessels. We have an attractive MultiClient library also as a basis for securing cash flow in a challenging market.

And finally, when it comes to our guidance for the year, we are still within the range of $550 million to $700 million that we launched in December last year. But obviously, with the market trending we have seen, we are in the lower range of the interval. MultiClient cash investments are now seen to be approximately $300 million. This is up from the initial $275 million to $300 million, but bear in mind we have up this year of MultiClient over that period from 40% to 50%.

Pre-funding level now seem to be above 100% and then we'll see end of the year how much above this will come in. Capital expenditures of approximately $225 million is down $25 million from the year – from the earlier guidance of $250 million and the reduction comes within maintenance CapEx.

And with that, I turn over to Bård for taking us further here.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session? [Operator Instructions]

We will pause for a moment to allow everybody to signal. [Operator Instructions] At the moment, there are no questions in the telephone queue.

Okay. If there's no questions to management, we thank you all for participating. I will be available if there are any follows-up after this call has ended, and you have my contact details in the material sent out this morning and also on the webpage. So wish you all a nice day and goodbye.

Ladies and gentleman, you may now disconnect.