Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Communication, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rune Olav Pedersen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Amy Wong — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, Carnegie Investment Bank AB (Norway)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...to our international callers, and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's third quarter 2018 results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Senior Vice President-Investor Relations and Communications. With us from management today are Rune Olav Pedersen, President and CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage, and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Pedersen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future, and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and the end of 2017 annual report. I hereby turn the call over to your President and CEO of PGS, Rune Olav Pedersen.

Good morning, and good afternoon, everyone. Our third quarter segment revenues were $192.1 million and our EBITDA was $132.8 million. The third quarter was really characterized by heavy investments into our MultiClient library, and we did invest more than $100 million ending up at $101.9 million of cash investments through the library. This is the result of a deliberate choice and move towards higher MultiClient investments during 2018 versus earlier years as we have a better return on our investment in MultiClient than we currently have in the contract market. And we believe we will harvest from these investments as the market continues to strengthen going forward.

Also on MultiClient, we state that the leads for the fourth quarter MultiClient late sales are better than for many years. Normally at this time early in the quarter, the leads basket is rather shallow, and then you work out the leads during the quarter. This year that is different, we already started the quarter with a fairly healthy and large leads basket, which gives promise that we may again be able to realize good late sales in the fourth quarter. The fundamentals for our industry are continually strong, stronger price, and we have improved cash flow amongst our clients. And as you will hear later in the presentation, we have the highest value of bids and leads in more than three-and-a-half years. Year-to-date, our MultiClient revenues are 20% up from last year.

And then I jump to the slide 5 called order book. The order book is or was weak at the end of the third quarter ending up at $144 million. We have experienced delays in formalizing contracts, which then cannot be put into the order book and these – some of these contracts and MultiClient pre-funding have also resulted in a delayed start in the fourth quarter, and we will, therefore, experience idle time in the fourth quarter. The reason for that is we will then experience a gap between jobs completing in the third quarter or early in the fourth quarter and jobs starting up again in the fourth quarter.

However, looking beyond the fourth quarter the opportunity pipeline for work is ever increasing as I alluded to the bids and leads curve. And our bookings for the first quarter is firming up nicely with 14 vessel months being booked in the fourth – in the first quarter of 2019. And also over five vessel months in the second quarter of 2019 is good at this point in time. So all-in-all, clearly the vessel utilization and order book picture is mixed. It is weak short term and somewhat stronger and more optimistic longer term.

And with that, I give the word to you, Gottfred.

Thank you. Starting on slide number 7, consolidated key financial figures. The segment revenues in the quarter was $192.1 million or $15 million or 7% lower than Q3 2017. This is due to – the reduction is due to lower contract revenues as a result of less capacity allocated to contract and also lower pre-funding revenues as a result of projects on average having some of those pre-funding this year compared to – sorry in Q3 this year compared to Q3 last year, and we also had less sales on projects in process of being completed in the processing phase. So, slightly offsetting this, we had an increase in MultiClient late sales of 17% compared to Q3 last year. The segment EBITDA for the quarter of $132.8 million is an increase of $24 million, or 17% compared to Q3 last year. We had a small negative EBIT for the quarter of $2.7 million.

Moving to the next slide, slide number 8, key operational – Q3 operational highlights. The total segment MultiClient revenues were $151.7 million. Of this, pre-funding revenues accounted for $95.7 million, which gives the pre-funding percentage for the quarter of 94% on the $101.9 million of MultiClient cash investments that we had. The pre-funding revenues in the quarter were driven by North America, Europe, and South America. Late sales revenues, $56 million, somewhat modest, still as I said 17% up from Q3 2017. And the late sales in the quarter were dominated by sales from our European library. Contract revenues $34.3 million, that is a reduction from $44 million in Q3 2017 which is higher pricing compared to Q3 last year, but we allocated significantly less capacity, 19% of the total capacity as against contract acquisition in the quarter compared to 28% in Q3 2017.

Then I move down quite a few slides to slide number 12, which is called group cost focus delivers results. We changed the format of this slide a little bit, so that the cost numbers show gross cash cost for the quarters, excluding the effect of steaming deferral. This, in our view, gives a better measure of the actual cash cost in the quarter as it eliminates the impact of steaming deferral. Table in the earnings release will reconcile the two and show how that is done.

The Q3 gross cash costs were slightly down from second quarter, $2 million, and are 15% lower than what we had Q3 2017, primarily as a result of the cost reductions we implemented late last year. Looking forward, Q4 cash cost will be lower since we will operate less vessels, we will reduce to six vessels operated in Q4, and our full-year expectation for gross cash costs is still $600 million.

Then I move to the next slide, consolidated – slide number 13, consolidated statements of cash flows summary. We had cash flow from operating activities of $133.3 million in the quarter, the improvement from Q3 last year. It's driven by higher earnings or higher EBITDA, also relating to an increase of MultiClient activity. We had a decent working capital development in the third quarter, and which was also the case in third quarter 2017.

Cash from operating activities includes payments of $6.4 million in the quarter and $33.2 million year-to-date relating to severance and all the restructuring provisions that we made end of last year. We are planning for a positive cash flow after debt service in 2018.

I will then move two slides down to slide number 15, which is headed good headroom to maintenance covenant. And in short, our leverage ratio continues to reduce and is standing at 2.75:1 at end of third quarter.

With that, Rune, I hand it back to you.

Thank you. I will start commenting on slide number 19, which has the heading marine seismic market outlook. And the short message here is that our market view remains the same. There's nothing in this quarter that will result us to revise our market view. We still believe that higher oil price, improved cash flow among oil companies and exceptionally low oil and gas discovery rates are benefiting and will continue to benefit the marine 3D seismic market fundamentals. We see that particularly in the value of bids and leads for contract work, which is at its highest level in more than three-and-a-half years which I will show you on the next slide. And this is a clear sign of improvement for the Marine Contract market.

We in PGS have also achieved higher pricing and margins year-to-date compared to the same period last year. The increase is meaningful and double-digit percentages. We have also seen a solid increase in MultiClient sales compared to last year and where the leads basket for Q4 is stronger than we've seen in several years as I explained earlier.

Moving on to slide number 20. You see the value of the bid and leads curve, the bid curve being the lower curve, the leads curve being the higher curve, and that you – what you can see is that we are now on levels seen several years ago. The recent increase has been driven by projects and leads in West Africa and South America in particular. But also, we have received and we know that we will receive an increasing number of bids for the 2019 Europe season.

The volume of acquired marine 3D seismic is expected to be higher in 2018 versus 2017. Even though this is somewhat weaker than what we earlier expected due to some idle time for us and the industry in the fourth quarter of 2018.

Moving then to our guidance, where there are some adjustments. The group cash costs is still guided to be approximately $600 million. However, the MultiClient cash investments is taken down from $300 million up to approximately $285 million, which represents approximately 65% of the active 3D vessel time we have. Capital expenditure down from approximately $50 million to approximately $40 million.

And then, last slide, Q3 in conclusion. We have, as I started out by saying, expanded our MultiClient data library and invested more than $100 million in what we believe are very attractive MultiClient projects during the quarter, and that this is a deliberate strategy and that we have taken to realize high returns on our investments. We have also achieved the higher prices and the higher margins on our contract work year-to-date compared to same period last year. So, we all – in PGS, we see an improvement in the contract market. This may or may not be an industry-wide phenomenon, but I can only speak to PGS and what we have experienced.

We talked to the weak order book development during the quarter and this is, of course, disappointment. It is disappointing that we will incur idle time in the fourth quarter. But looking through that, it still looks strong for the first quarter 2019 and onwards, and our market view remains the same as it has been and the fundamentals, if anything, have improved over the last quarter. In any case, tight overall cost control will remain a priority within PGS.

And with that, I think I'll turn it over to you both for questions.

Yeah. Thank you, Rune. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session.

Of course. Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] We have our first signal. We will now take our first question from Amy Wong from UBS. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, good afternoon. It's Amy Wong here from UBS. Could you give us some sense of what you're thinking about in terms of how many vessels you're going to operate in 2019? I mean last year this time you were pretty helpful, helping us understand that there was a six and there was a flex to go up to eight. Now, you've now settled that the winter months you're going to operate six in Q4 2018. So, what are we thinking about the conditions and how you would think about the number of vessels you'll operate in 2019?

Sure. We will, as you say, plan to operate six vessels in the fourth quarter and six vessels in the first quarter. Then we plan to go up to eight vessels in the second and third quarter. So, when we come to the fourth quarter of 2019, whether we go down to six or stay with seven or eight, will depend upon the market conditions at that stage. But we will obviously [ph] rig (00:16:27) the company, so that if we have to go down to six also in the fourth quarter of 2019, it will have the same positive cash cost effect as it has in this year.

Just a follow-up on your point. In the second and third quarter, you said you can go up to eight, but you also [ph] flagged (00:16:47) that the European season is shaping up quite busy right now. So, what are the chances that you don't go up to eight vessels? Or alternatively, is there even room to even increase seismic further with a bit of CapEx?

I think it's our... [indiscernible]

(00:17:06)

Yeah. I understand. It's our clear baseline to go up to eight. We would have to see a weaker market than what we are currently believing we will see for that not to happen. So, we regard that as unlikely.

Equally so, we regarded it as unlikely that we will invest in CapEx, so that we are able to go up to nine, for example, should the market be very strong in the second and third quarter. I think it's – yeah, that is very unlikely that that will happen. It is – if the market becomes very strong and tight, we will try to realize as high prices as possible during the second and third quarter, and rather see whether we can continue to operate eight or seven through the winter of 2019 and 2020.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll now take our next question from Christopher Møllerløkken from Carnegie. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes, good afternoon. This is Christopher in Carnegie. In terms of the backlog and September, implied contract backlog of $34 million versus the Marine Contract activity going from 22% of active vessel time in third quarter to 60% in the fourth quarter. Is it still contracts you are expecting to close, which are not included in the backlog or should we apply the implied backlog as an fair indication for the Q4 contract revenues?

No. It's a good question and I tried to mention in the earlier today. It's – there are contracts in the booking, which you do not find in the backlog of $144 million. So, you cannot apply the $144 million to the 15 months and the 14 months, and then do the 60:40 calculation. That's not possible.

And it will be a fairly meaningful number in terms of that the contract cessation seems to increase significantly in the fourth quarter versus what we've seen in the past few quarters from PGS?

Yes.

And you did say that prices so far have increased double digits versus last year. Are there any reasons why they should significantly drop in fourth quarter versus what you have seen so far in 2018?

No. There is no indication of that. Obviously as we do in any quarter, some contracts are priced well and others are priced more aggressively, that's the case now as well. But no, there is no significant general drop in pricing to answer your question.

A final question. Could you quantify what roughly the stacking costs for Ramform Sterling would be on a per day basis?

So, in a way what we seek to do when we're in warm-stacked vessels is to avoid having costs relating to primarily staffing and similar. On the vessel, we've been cautious in saying how much we achieved from winter stacking, but in a way, we get rid of all the project costs obviously, including fuel consumption as similar, and then all the majority of the personnel costs of the vessel. So, it should be an indicator of 70% of the costs, maybe a little bit more.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. There are no further questions in the queue. [Operator Instructions] There are no further questions in the Q&A session.

Okay. Thank you, all, for participating in the conference call, and goodbye.