corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO


Q1 2011 Earnings Call -


First Call
 
May 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President, Group Communications


Good morning, and welcome to the presentation of the First Quarter Results for 2011 for PGS. This


presentation is broadcasted on the net, and we have a conference call running at the same time in


parallel. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in the Group.


Before we start, I’d like to give you a few practical details. As we’re broadcasting on the net and the


conference call for the audience in the room, please use the microphone provided when posting


questions and state your name and company, please.


There are no emergency drills plans today, so if the alarm sounds, please evacuate. Emergency


door is at the front on both sides. There is a cautionary statement showing on your screen. Please


study that carefully. The presentation today will be given by Jon Erik Reinhardsen, who is the


President and CEO of PGS; our CFO, Gottfred Langseth; and Magne Reiersgard, he is the


Executive Vice President, Head of Operations in PGS.


We’ll open for a Q&A after the presentation in about 30 minutes from now, both from the web, from


the conference call, and, of course, from the audience in the auditorium. There will also be a


conference call this afternoon at 4:30 European Time, 10:00 o’clock Eastern.


So, by that, it’s my pleasure to give the floor to Jon Erik.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive officer


Thank you, Tore, and good morning, everyone. This is the time of the year where we start to see


through the year in terms of activities and expected volumes, and we will try doing the presentation


today to share a little bit about what we think the overall year will look like in terms of estimated


activity.


But before we go into the quarterly number and the market numbers, I just wanted to review quickly


the overall view of the market and PGS’s position. We do continue to see E&P spending increase


driven by the high oil price, obviously. And we also see in our segment gradual growth and increase


in bid activity, and I’ll come back to this a little bit more in detail later on.


On PGS’s specific position, we continue to see GeoStreamer as having the technological


leadership in this industry. We launched this technology four years ago. We expect a competition to


be there a couple of years later. It’s now four years, and we still haven’t seen a dual or a multi-


sensor technology that represents any rivalry to the GeoStreamer. It will come soon, we think. And


we see it as a positive because we are seeing now a separate segment – sub-segment of the


seismic industry being shaped, with higher pricing and, of course, requesting a different quality of


data, a more broadband-type data response.


The other differentiator we have, and that still represents significant value for us, is the Ramform


productivity. And we will also come back to that more specifically today when we go into the


operational qualities of the business. In addition, on the product and technology pipeline, I want to


highlight our newest processes in data processing, characterized with hyperBeam and all the new


GeoStreamer processing facilities.


And lastly, we have signed two new vessels, the Ramform W-class with Mitsubishi Heavy


Industries. So, that also is an investment in growth of the company going forward, and we think


they will timely come quite optimum into the uptick of the cycle.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO


Q1 2011 Earnings Call -


First Call
 
May 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


When it comes to the quarter specifically and the financial numbers, there should be no big surprise


given that we have communicated this already. The EBITDA of $72.9 million; the marine contract


EBIT margin of 12% that we consider decent given the industry-wide cost pressures we now have


from increased fuel prices; weaker MultiClient sales. Here, we consider it more of a quarterly


variation. It has not changed our view for the full year.


When it comes to MultiClient sales, we are quite confident that what we saw December last year,


February this year is still what we expect for the full year. The number of leads, the activity we see


gives us a quite robust impression when it comes to the MultiClient activity for the year.


Behind these numbers, there is very strong operational performance also in the first quarter. And


Magne Reiersgard will come back to that a little bit more in detail.


We have an increase in backlog year-on-year of 48%. And overall for the industry, I think that’s an


important parameter to watch because it is when industry-wide, we see a growth in accumulated


backlog that we will start to see the potential for increased pricing.


The GeoStreamer momentum continues, as I have said already. Currently now, roughly half of


what we do is GeoStreamer based activity in acquisition. And more than half of what we do is


GeoStreamer based when it comes to data processing. So, it’s becoming a significant part of our


operations.


Our full year EBITDA is expected to be $500 million. Looking at the overall financial numbers, the


only thing I want to highlight here is the cash flow from operations. We are continuing to generate


healthy cash from operations even at the trough of the cycle, and it gives us the ability to invest in


GeoStreamer and partly to fund the new vessels.


And then the last slide as part of this introduction, the order backlog is continuing to build


momentum, is giving visibility. We have currently, at the end of the quarter, I would say, 65%


booked of the capacity for Q3, 40% of the capacity booked for Q4, and we have seen a continuous


strong booking through April. A lot of it is GeoStreamer driven, but we also have on the high-end


Ramform, the S-class, is a very long backlog at the moment. So, it’s really over and beyond the


GeoStreamer at the moment.


Good visibility short term, premium on the GeoStreamer and a good basis for continuing to develop


the company, both in terms of margin improvements and in terms of productivity.


And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to go through the numbers in more detail.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, good morning to you all. I will start with the consolidated statement of operations


summary. The revenues of $242.2 million EBITDA for the quarter of 72.9 EBIT reported at $2.5


million, all in line with what we communicated in mid-April. Net financial items a cost of $10.8 million


just slightly higher than some had estimated beforehand. The amount includes a recorded loss


relating to share of earnings or rather share of loss from associated companies, primarily


Geokinetics as a result of unexpected loss for Geokinetics in first quarter, and also that the fourth


quarter loss was higher than what we originally estimated some months back.


Also for those focusing on net income earnings per share, we have a small tax expense of


$600,000 in the quarter despite reporting a pre-tax loss. It’s not the biggest number, but anyway, it


impacts net income and the reason for the tax rate not being closer to 28% of pre-tax number is


that in some countries we have a tax loss in the quarter where we do not recognize the tax asset