Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gary W. Stromberg — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Amy Wong — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Charlie Gushee — Founder, Kyklos Capital

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bård Stenberg. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS conference call presenting the company's third quarter results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President, Corporate Communications in PGS. With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Rune Olav Pedersen, General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Communications and Marketing.

At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual result to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and PGS annual report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård. We will quickly review some of the slides from the presentation this morning. But before that, the market has turned more challenging not the least over the last quarter. In a cyclical market, we have prepared well in terms of keeping our balance sheet strong and putting in place long-term financing, and we are still in a situation where we will be able to pay dividend for also this year and we guide to a dividend payout at same amount in kroner per share as we paid for 2013 in 2014. We are fully funded have a comfortable debt level, better fleet and more attractive multi-client library than we've had earlier years and a much better technology position.

In the quarter, we delivered a relatively strong Marine contract EBIT margin of 27%. Multi-client sales, on the other hand, were on the weak side, primarily due to the lack of Triton pre-funding at the time, which later has started to come in, as most of you probably know.

Cash flow from operations in the quarter was $231 million, also a healthy number. When it comes to Q4, we have, as I said, received pre-funding for the Triton survey, and we have total pre-funding revenues, which we expect to exceed $100 million in the quarter and 75% of the active capacity is allocated to contract work, which again is a good confirmation of the cash flow potential in the quarter. We guide the full year 2014 EBITDA of approximately $725 million.

On slide 5, you will find the backlog that is down quarter-on-quarter primarily in the contract segment and it's sort of reflected in the high margin you saw in the third quarter. Booking for fourth quarter is at the high number of 90% for first quarter now up to 50%, and then we have 15% and 10% in second and third before we have started to book work in the contract or multi-client for the North Sea. Order book sits at $466 million with over $200 million secured in prefunding.

And then I hand over to Gottfred Langseth, who will take us through some of the financial slides.

Thank you. I will give some comments to some selected slides in the financial section. I will start with slide number seven, condensed consolidated statement of operations. Revenues for the third quarter ended at $394.2 million, that's an 8% increase from Q3 2013. EBITDA, $181.7 million, down 16% from Q3 last year. And operating profit EBIT excluding impairment charges, $77.5 million, which is a reduction of 28%.

We recorded impairment charges in the quarter of $25 million, these related to the vessels Pacific Explorer, Nordic Explorer and Southern Explorer, as well as a Russian joint venture PGS Khazar, which we are in the process of selling.

Net financial items in the quarter amounted to $25 million. This includes a foreign currency loss of close to $8 million relating to the significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the quarter against most, if not all, other currencies and particularly the Brazilian real. And net financial items also includes a loss from associated companies, $8 million approximately, relating to exploration expenses in Azimuth Ltd, where PGS owns 45%.

Tax expense in the quarter was $18.9 million. The highest reported tax rate, 69% of pre-tax profit, is primarily due to foreign exchange movements, which impacts our deferred tax position, as well as the fact that the impairment charges in the quarter are not tax deductible or deducted in calculating the tax expense.

Then, moving to slide number eight, Q3 2014 highlights. The Marine contract revenues were $238.6 million in the quarter. This is a strong sequential increase from earlier quarters in this year. And this is driven primarily by more capacity used for contract acquisition. The EBIT margins for contract work was 27% in the quarter.

Total MultiClient [ph] side (7:16) revenues were $119.3 million. Pre-funding revenues was 79% of capitalized cash investment in the quarter, a pre-funding ratio of 29%, which is lower than planned, primarily due to the lack of pre-funding on the Triton survey in the Gulf of Mexico.

If we do the same calculation excluding the Triton survey, the pre-funding ratio of the remaining part of our MultiClient activity was 125% in the quarter. We expect a total pre-funding percent for the full year of approximately 90%.

Then moving a couple of slides down to slide number 12, group cost focus delivers results. As can be seen from the graphical illustration, the quarterly cash cost is relatively flat for the last 10 or so quarters. This is despite the fact that we have brought on more seismic -- or more capacity in the period, including the entry of Ramform Titan and Ramform Atlas to our fleet.

The third quarter cost is slightly up compared to second quarter. As we indicated already in the second quarter presentation, the increase is primarily due to increased overall expense to steaming cost, less capitalization of the yard stay time, the wind-down costs relating to Pacific and Nordic Explorer, and some increase of activity in higher-cost areas. So, the $10 million of quarterly cash cost reduction that we have communicated relating to the retirement of Pacific and Nordic will take effect in the fourth quarter and going forward. Our cost programs have been expanded and are progressing according with plan.

I'll then move to slide number 13, consolidated statements of cash flows summary. Cash from operating activities, $230.7 million in the quarter. The relatively strong cash from operations was driven by an improvement in working capital in the quarter and we were significantly cash flow positive in the quarter after CapEx. CapEx in the quarter, $70.6 million. The most significant part of that is newbuild CapEx, which amounted to a bit over $37 million.

Then, the last slide I will provide comments to is slide number 14, balance sheet position, key numbers. Our balance sheet position is strong and it positions us well for a challenging market. The liquidity reserve immediately available to us is $470 million. In addition to this, we have $267 million of undrawn funding commitment relating to our newbuilds, and this matches the remaining yard payments.

We have a policy to keep net debt below one times EBITDA in a strong market, and two times EBITDA in a weak market and we are comfortably inside this.

I then hand over back to you, Jon Erik.

Yes. We will then move to slide 18, the bidding activity. That is still at a relatively low level. And obviously, that impacts pricing and utilization of the global fleet negatively. On the other hand, there is still a substantial value of leads out there but with a delay factor when it comes to converting leads to bids.

The substance of the lead volume here is primarily West Africa, Asia Pacific including Australia. But there is also increase going on when it comes to North and South American work and also Middle East and Mediterranean in that region.

Moving to slide 19. Global supply and demand trends. We do see for 2014 an estimated decline of activity in square kilometers for 2014 over 2013 with about 10%. On the other hand, we also see streamer capacity down this year, with about 5% on average, and then staying flattish for next year, and then for 2016 with a 5% increase coming back primarily driven by two of our newbuilds but also some full-year effect of a couple of other newbuilds coming during 2015.

We are then quickly moving to slide number 23, multi-client performance. It's in focus. We have tried to illustrate the performance of the library ex-Triton and then the EBIT Triton as a separate issue. And the graph to the left here shows how pre-funding has developed and how sales to investment ratios have developed over the last six years. And bear in mind, in this period, we have grown our investments, doubled them, and we have grown our sales, doubled them, and still there is a very healthy development on the key ratios in the area. And we expect 2014 to come out even better than this since the fourth quarter obviously is not yet in there.

When it comes to Triton, we have now done in the first sales. We have then a basis for doing a revised business plan when we know a bit about volumes and prices. This review has not triggered impairments, but we have landed on an amortization rate of 80% of sales given the competitive situation we have for this particular survey.

Moving then to slide number 24, which, again, confirms the low book values that resides with the vintages up and including 2014. And here in the 2014 including third quarter also the Kwanza big survey we did in 2012 has now dropped down to 14 vintage, but even that one is written well down, and, as you see, the aggregate value of net book value is still very low for the most recent library.

Work in Progress has to be seen in a perspective of, this is a two to three years value, given that surveys have become bigger and accumulated acquisition and imaging time is longer than it used to be a few years back.

When it comes to full year 2014 amortization, we now expect that to be slightly north of 50%, 50% to 55%, given the blend-in of Triton sales with a higher amortization rate.

Moving to slide 27. Just to remind everyone, we do intend to pay dividend of SEK 2.30 per share also in 2015 for 2014. And also, we have been doing significant buybacks both in 2012, 2013, and 2014 in addition to that. And that's our way of returning cash to shareholders.

The outlook is currently challenging, as I said in the introduction, in the sense that the weak oil price and this gap in supply/ demand drives a competitive situation that impacts bidding pricing and utilization negatively. We expect a weak market, and plan for a weak market through 2015. But as you all know, it's too early to draw any conclusions for 2015 since traditionally our industry has an outlook of five, six months in backlog and in planning. But we are well prepared to live with a market like this also through next year should that happen.

Obviously, decommissioning of vessels is supportive for the supply demand balance, whether it's temporary through the winter, or whether it's permanent, as we've seen quite a lot of coming through over the last couple of years.

We guided EBITDA for the year of approximately $725 million, MultiClient cash investments of approximately $350 million, with a pre-funding level of approximately $90 million, where primarily it's the forecasting of the Triton revenues that has driven the number down from 100% that we earlier had.

Capital expenditure of approximately $375 million, of which approx $225 million of these related to the newbuild program, and therefore, a maintenance CapEx run rate of about $150 million.

And with that, we open up for questions.

Yeah. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We can now take our first question. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. It's Gary Stromberg from Barclays.

Good morning.

Morning. Can you just talk about the remaining two newbuilds and the pace of payments? I think you said $267 million was remaining. How is that spread out over fourth quarter and into 2015?

There is no significant payment or CapEx for the remainder of this year. For next year, there would be payments of close to $300 million for [ph] the full year (18:47). Let's just – yeah, close to $300 million for the full year. That includes the delivery of vessel number three, and only leaves the last installment from vessel number four.

Okay. And so in 2015 is when you wrap up payments on the newbuild?

Yeah. There is a last installment in 2016. The $267 million that I mentioned in my review matches more or less the remaining yard installments but does not cover that remaining equipment or in-sea equipment deliveries.

Okay. And are there any conditions on tapping the $267 million in export credit financing or is that fully available?

It is fully available against incurring the CapEx, with CapEx group. CapEx is [indiscernible] (19:45) or later but not before.

Okay. And then I realized it's a little early and you typically have an Analyst Day to discuss 2015. But just in broad strokes, how will capital expenditures compare to the $375 million spend in 2014? Should we just think about maintenance plus remaining newbuild as sort of a baseline when thinking about 2015?

Yeah. I gave you an indication on the newbuilds. Obviously, there are uncertainties. In principle, it could be less or later than what our projections are based on, but I think if you should model relatively modest maintenance CapEx and likely on the lower end of what you're seeing for 2014. And as Jon Erik commented, this year, we are approximately $150 million. And as of today at least we expect to be lower than that on maintenance as expected.

But other than the newbuild payments and lower maintenance CapEx, there really, there is not much left in terms of growth CapEx for 2015. Is that the right way to think about it?

Yeah.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. We can now take our next question. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from SB1 Markets. In terms of the multi-client profitability in third quarter, if you look on the Marine contract EBIT and adjust for the writedowns, we have roughly $77 million. But then we have a contract EBIT of $64 million. So could you explain why the MultiClient profitability seems to be fairly low in third quarter, or where there only other elements explaining that low ex-contract profitability? Thank you.

So, the EBIT margin on MultiClient in third quarter was relatively low. It's related to the relatively low level of revenues compared to the volume of investment activity. As you know, we expend, we capitalize a direct and incremental cost on the survey. The rest is capitalized as we go. So it means that, in a way, the expense in direct costs eats up most of the EBIT margin from the revenues in the quarter. So, that's the reason. And you can pretty much calculate so, at least approximately what the EBIT margin on the MultiClient work was.

The line of, the income from associated companies had a loss in third quarter. And in first quarter when this azimuth company booked loss, it was partly because they bought MultiClient seismic from PGS. Did they buy MultiClient seismic from you again in this quarter, and if so, how much?

They did not buy MultiClient data from PGS in this quarter. So, we would disclose that if that was the fact. So, it is separately disclosed in [ph] fiscal (23:21) 11 I think in 11 or 13 of the accounts. So [ph] no thanks (23:24) from us.

Could you provide any guidance in terms of this line going forward? It has been, for a while, a lost per quarter typically.

In a way, given the nature of this company, they've been the exploration expenses from time to time. And it's kind of unfortunate that it creates a lumpiness in our reported numbers. And we will see amounts like that from time to time. And I can't give you a forecast today on forward quarters. We would intend to put that into better perspective at least when we get to our Capital Markets- Day so that it be easier to understand how it works. But it will be lumpy, and it's not something that's possible to estimate.

Thank you.

Thank you, sir. We can now take our next question. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. It's Amy Wong from UBS. Just a couple of questions. Firstly on Russia. Your competitors seem to have been signing up some of the opportunities there. Appreciate that there are sanctions in the region. And I'm just wondering what your strategy is for Russia at the moment and whether or not you've actually been participating in the tenders or not due to potentially being [ph] forfeit (25:10) into from the sanctions.

And then secondly, can I get your perspective on Mexico, please, in terms of what you guys are seeing in terms of timing for bids, when activity may pick up there and when you expect to see deploying more vessels there, please? Thank you.

Yeah. On the first question, we have the bid work for Russia. We've even sort of in quotes one word for Russia but we have not been able to commit under the current sanction regime, and therefore we have said that we need to have a way out should the sanctions prevail. And therefore, we have not been able to sign up any work in that respect. We are obviously happy that there is work there and that people are committing capacity there, because that balances the market better. But the way we understand the sanctions, and in principle, more the U.S. sanctions than the European sanctions, we cannot commit under the current regime to do that.

When it comes to Mexico, we expect that activity to pick up next year, maybe even late this year but definitely next year. We have plans ready, starting up primarily in the 2D space but obviously, we expect also 3D work to come along.

PEMEX sits on operator ships. They may have harmonies coming in to their blocks that might fund activity shortly irrespective of when the first round is to happen. So we do expect work and plan for taking a position relative to the Mexican market next year.

Can you be any more specific on Mexico in terms of how many vessels, how much acreage there is?

That is very difficult for anyone to be at this point in time. I think if people try to be more specific, there might be -- I would question the substance of the answer to be honest because this is really a moving target at the moment until things come in place. But the positive side is the government has delivered more or less spot on on all their indications so far in terms of the timeframe they see for rolling out this new license regime.

Great. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We'll now move on to our next question. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is Charlie Gushee from Kyklos Capital. Just a quick one on your taxes and on the impairment issue. I see an extraordinarily high tax rate in the quarter and you point to the $25 million impairment charge, which was non-deductible. What will be the trend do you see in impairments over the next two quarters? And is there any way that you could optimize better on the taxes? Thanks.

Yeah. The trend on impairments, I hope, is going to be zero [ph] because in tax rates, (28:29) it's obviously where impairments happen, when they're triggered by external events or decisions by the company this time, primarily triggered by the fact that we decided to retire two of our older vessels in a soft market and sell one of our, the activities that we have in Russia. So hopefully -- difficult to predict, but hopefully, our aim is to avoid seeing impairments in future periods, obviously.

The tax -- we are relatively tax-effective. We operate most of our vessels in tax-free regimes. I've said earlier that we aim to, over time, see a reported tax rate of 25% or below the range of 20% to 25% of pre-tax profit. Some of that will, for a number of years, be charged into expense of deferred tax asset, so it's not cash taxes if you read our accounts for the last couple of years, you will see that the cash tax expenses is relatively addressed. And that is where we expect.

In a balanced market, that's what we should be able to deliver in a strong market. The tax rate should be even lower as a percentage basis. In a softer market with slim margins, we are pushed upwards as a result of some of the taxes being, withholding the revenue base, withholding taxes and similar which aren't directly derived from our profits but from our activity levels. So generally speaking, in the current market as we see, we'd be in the high end and previous over 25% tax rate due to the fact that some taxes are not marrying with our profitability level.

Thank you.

We have no further questions at this time. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Operator, are there any more questions from the audience?

As we have no further questions, I will now hand the call back to speakers for any additional or concluding remarks. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you all for participating in this conference call and have a nice day. Good-bye.

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.