Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Fiona M. Maclean — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Sarah Hunt — Associate Portfolio Manager, Alpine Woods Capital Investors LLC
Mats Olimb — Analyst, DNB Bank ASA (Broker)
Rob J. Pulleyn — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to the Conference Call for the Third Quarter Results for PGS. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporation Communications in the company. Please note that today's call is being recorded.

With us from management today is Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, our CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks and then open the line for questions.

Before I turn over the call to Jon Erik, I would like comment on some forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future, and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that are – that can cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release, and in PGS's Annual Report.

With that, I turn the call over to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.

Thank you, Tore. We will start on slide three. Just to recap our business model, it's based on an ability to play with strength on the balance between the Marine Contract market and the MultiClient market. This quarter, we've been able to play to the strength of the contract market, and then used our lineup of good MultiClient investments to utilize the remainder of the capacity for that.

EBIT of $108.3 million, margin of 30%, which in itself is good. The softness is slightly on the MultiClient pre-funding side, but we have been able to drive good margin out of the revenues we have been able to create. Also worth noting that the data processing revenues are at a new record. And a lot of that growth now comes on the back of the GeoStreamer technology and the new processing tools that we have created that are very unique to us and to the industry as a whole.

The order book is up 30%, which at this time, is very good to see, because we start to get visibility into 2014, which I'll come back to. We have strengthened our liquidity reserve. Ramform Titan is in play with excellent performance so far, and we expect that to continue. The soft spot in the market these days is that we do observe that clients tend to be a little bit more restrictive when it comes to investing in seismic surveys, and in particular, in the pre-funding dimension. But then, it could also have an effect year-end when it comes to the typical discretionary spending that is related to late sales.

When it comes to full year EBITDA guidance, we have taken that down to $850 million. And it's driven by three factors; one, we have decided to mobilize the Full Azimuth GeoStreamer survey, second to nothing that has been done before in the Gulf. That takes capacity. It normally comes with lower pre-funding as is the case also here, than what it is the average. And therefore takes down the average pre-funding for the year, and thus the EBITDA for the year; deliberate decision, good opportunity for us somewhere back since 2010 in the Gulf.

But we have waited for the right opportunity, both in terms of deploying the right technology and having the right customers involved. Secondly, it's driven by somewhat softer pre-funding also in the North Sea in – that we have seen. Still, the overall pre-funding level of 95% to 100% for the year is industry-leading, and very conservative. The last element playing it to the lower guidance on EBITDA is uncertainty related to late sales for the full year and the discretionary spending, year-end.

Slide four just shows a stable EBIT performance, despite the somewhat softer MultiClient revenues. Slide five shows the uptick in backlog that we think, to a large extent, is driven by technology and productivity differentiation. There's a lot of interest around GeoStreamer, GeoStreamer technology; and not the least, all the optionality you get when you buy a survey in terms of further processing of the data, where you can actually use everything we develop later-on on imaging technologies, which has started to come through now.

Some price pressure still post North Sea season impacting primarily Q4 and Q1, and vessel booking in mid-October is now fully booked for Q4 2013, 75% booked for Q1 2014, 50% booked for Q2 2014 and 30% booked for Q3 2014. We have what we call an industrial approach to the business. And with industrial, there are elements of continuous improvement, long-term thinking, solid balance sheet, and consistent return to shareholders by paying back dividend as dividend of share of the return we generate.

In particular, when it comes to vessel investment strategy, it means we are not trying to tie-in the cycles with our investments, we're – but we are trying to make capacity investments through the cycle, and do it when we can achieve a differentiating vessel-type product. We will not build vessels that look alike any other vessels that we can charter in. That is not where we're going to deploy our capital to.

We have already then, through this thinking, secured a new build pipeline of vessels through the Ramform Titan class, where the Ramform Titan herself has been delivered; Ramform Atlas will come end of year, and we have two more Ramform Titans coming in 2015. And if you deploy that to the next slide and look at the streamer capacity growth in PGS, the bottom chart there, slide seven, you will see that from a baseline of 2012, we will actually grow our streamer capacity with 50% to 2016, which means even at flat pricing and a flat MultiClient market we will grow earnings per share and continue to grow earnings per share, based on this capacity growth.

And on the top, on the same slide, you see earnings per share development most recently, and you see how the trough came down and got effect in 2010 and then started to creep upwards. We are well positioned to continue to improve the return on capital and dividend capacity by having a strong balance sheet we can play to, by having this increased earnings capacity from new build, and from our technology differentiation.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth, who will take you through the numbers.

Thank you. I will give some comments on four of the slides, starting with slide number one – number nine in the presentation; consolidated statement of operations summary. For third quarter, all revenues, EBITDA, and EBIT are marginally down from Q3 last year. Revenues down 6%. Our margin is stronger in this third quarter. And operating profit EBIT $108.3 million, is 2% down from third quarter last year.

Year-to-date, EBIT of $315.7 million, which is an increase of 35% compared to last year. Income before tax expense $97.9 million in the quarter, $283.1 million year-to-date, a 54% growth compared to last year. The reported tax rate for the quarter 24%. Most of that's deferred tax and not current tax, leaving a net income-to-equity holders of $74.2 million for the third quarter.

I then move to the next slide, number 10, Q3 2013 highlights; Marine Contract revenues were $155.7 million with a strong EBIT margin in the quarter, 36%. MultiClient revenues totaled $171.4 million with pre-funding revenues 90% of MultiClient cash investment. Record external data processing revenues of $34.4 million, with improving EBIT margin of the external work.

I then move a bit down in the presentation to slide number 14, Group cost development, which illustrates the total cash cost for PGS. Our cost focus delivers results. We are satisfied with the cost development. The increase in Q3 over Q2 on cost primarily relates to the Ramform Titan entering the fleet and being in operation for the full quarter. Secondly, steaming costs charged to expense in Q3, as compared to, on a net basis, being deferred in second quarter. And lastly, less capitalized yard time.

And moving two slides down to number 16, strong balance sheet position, key figures; we completed the refinancing of our revolving credit facility in the third quarter. We increased the facility amount from $350 million to $500 million and extended the maturity date from 2015 to 2018. The revolving credit facility was and is fully available and undrawn. And as a result of the increase of the facility, our liquidity reserve is now almost $800 million.

Net interest-bearing debt is well below our thresholds. And lastly, shareholders' equity, 58% of total assets at the end of the quarter.

I will then give the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you. We move to slide 18; just one slide on the Ramform Titan. When we introduced the GeoStreamer, we introduced the method of towing streamers independent of depths. Because of our dual sensor technology, we could make ourselves independent of towing depths when it comes to frequency response to the recording. That gave us an ability to tow deeper, and therefore, be more protected to weather.

And by doing so, we discovered that the shortcomings when it comes to streamer acquisition in worse weather moved from the streamer to the vessel. So we – you could actually now record seismic data in the worst weather, but the vessel motions started to become more of a problem. That was one of the drivers for building these Titans. And so far, and we're convinced that will continue, the performance of the Ramform Titan has clearly demonstrated that we can now expand the weather window even further.

But it's also – not only, but it's also about higher number of streamers, longer streamers, safer operations, and in general, increasing efficiency and giving clients comfort in our ability to operate in more remote locations and in gradually more harsh environments. The stability is significantly improved. The platform is safer. The endurance is much longer when it comes to operating remotely, and there is much more redundancy built into all systems that reduces the likelihood of having to pick up streamers and go to shore to fix things; rather, use the redundant system and then fix it when the survey is done.

We then move to slide number 24, just to observe the bidding activity and all sales leads curves. They have dipped down a bit. Decreased mainly due to some large tenders being awarded to contracts, and therefore popping up as backlog in ours and others' backlogs. Still, there are several large projects to be awarded, and survey size still continues to increase. And of course, in that sense, come our way, who have built the larger vessels consistently over time. Today, for us in PGS, the majority of the large bids actually would favor a GeoStreamer-type technology.

We then move to slide number 29, market outlook. Oil price still relatively stable and high; we still see deep water as a very attractive investment area for the E&Ps when it comes to breakeven cost of operating. We have still signs or pressure seen from clients when it comes to their focus on being able to continue to pay dividend and therefore cuts back somewhat on their spending. It has some effect, and we have tried to sort of express our net effect for 2013 in the guidance, in combination with these other factors.

Average 2013 contract pricing is up 10%, 15% from average 2012. Still in the short term, which is this Q4 and Q1, we see a challenging short-term bidding environment. However, when we look at what we have booked so far for 2014, contract work is slightly higher-priced than average 2013 pricing.

That leads us to the guidance EBITDA of approximately $850 million as I said initially. MultiClient cash investments expected to be approximately $350 million, which is at the top-end of our earlier guided range, with a pre-funding level to be approximately 95% to 100%. And this obviously includes then, some of the work we have started to do or will start to do shortly in the Gulf of Mexico. Capital expenditure in the range of $525 million to $550 million, which is down from earlier guidance, and of which approximately $315 million to $335 million relates to the new build program.

And in conclusion, we have delivered a quarter with a relatively high EBIT margin, very strong contract margin of 36%. Some softness related to revenues in the MultiClient segment that then trickles down the P&L. Industry-leading full year pre-funding level of 95% to 100%, well within the long-term targeted range of 80% to 120%, which we communicated as long back as, say, the Capital Markets Day 2011.

Good order book and relatively high confidence in securing new work. And with our industrial approach to new builds, we have secured a development that is very accretive to earnings capacity going forward and for that matter, dividend capacity and return on capital. Well positioned to generate strong profitability over the cycle.

And with that, I hand back to you, Tore.

Thank you, Jon Erik. And then, we're ready for the Q&A session. And kindly ask the operator to assist us, please.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we can take our first question, which comes from Christopher Møllerløkken of SB 1. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Revenues were overall weaker than we and consensus expected for third quarter. But also cost of sales were significantly lower than expected, both from our part and consensus. And that's despite MultiClient investments being roughly as expected. Were there anything specifically favoring OpEx in Q3 or anything one-offs you would highlight in the OpEx?

No. I think it is, Christopher, is more gradually effects of the cost reduction program or the profit improvement program we had last year, where we got a good effect last year. But we said there will be more of this rolling through for the full year 2013. And that's what you see coming through here.

And cost picture for Q4 and 2013, could you give any – 2014; I mean can you give any more flavor?

What you asked? You were on 2013, next quarter?

Q4 and next year.

It's a bit – we will come back to that obviously. For the – with respect to next year, we comment on the fourth quarter first. We expect the total cost to be slightly up. Next year, we will re-work, but there will be some inflationary cost. But the total cost level is, as you know, highly dependent on the exact projects we undertake because that will drive that project-related costs, which you would see from our [ph] cursed (19:12) can vary quite a lot from quarter-to-quarter. And then, you have the capacity increase with Atlas. And then Titan for a full year will obviously increase our running cost level as a total.

And for Q4 specifically, you will have quite a bit of steaming this quarter. Will parts of that be deferred to Q1?

Yes.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Fiona Maclean of Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. It's Fiona. I just wanted to get a little bit of clarity on what you're seeing on earnings for 2014 in terms of what you've just said in this conference call just now, and also in the earlier one. Do you – you're seeming to imply that earnings growth in 2014 versus 2013 is going to be at a relatively low level. So should we be anticipating just a single-digit growth rate next year, rather than a double-digit growth rate for EPS?

Well, of course, its early days, and we'll come back to this when we come closer to – or in the Capital Markets Day. But what we have indicated here is that we have a certain growth in streamer capacity, 2014 over 2013. That number is probably more a 15% than a single-digit number. So if you assume that we can deliver a similar margin, similar pricing in the contract world and at the MultiClient world is reasonably flat; that would be the indicator for what kind of growth we would see on the revenue side.

And of course, then, how much of that would trickle down to the bottom line is something you can run through your spreadsheets. But that would be more than a single-digit growth, if all of that came through in that way. So the point with that slide on streamer capacity growth is that we have already, through the decision making, we have made, and assuming the market stays reasonably stable, secured quite a bit of earnings growth for the next three years, four years. And then, of course, market fluctuations could take that up or down relative to a baseline of growth.

Okay. That was clear. And just there's another question; this time on – in the booking that you've already made for 2014, is it safe to say that those bookings relate to your higher-end vessels versus your lower-end vessels? And then, the next additional question was, would there be a mix – a change in the mix of the margin in 2014, if you are going to allocate more vessels to contract work versus MultiClient?

To the first question, I can say that when it comes to Q2 and Q3, we have not yet booked Atlas or Titan, but we could, in a few weeks, have done it. And neither have we booked the S-classes, Sterling and Sovereign. So the best vessels are still to be booked for Q2 and Q3.

Okay.

To the second question, it's too early to conclude that you would see a – if we increase the contract exposure, a margin dilution. That could well be the case, but again, the opposite could also be the case. It depends a bit more on where we allocate the best vessels, whether you end up in contract or in MultiClient, in many ways.

Okay, thank you.

Yep.

Our next question comes from Sarah Hunt of Alpine Funds. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen, or good afternoon for you.

Yes.

Can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in CapEx budgets and what you think 2014 looks like in terms of the discussions that you're having? I know that very often there's a rush to pick up MultiClient at the end of the year when people's budgets are running out, and they want to make sure that they don't lose anything for next year. But if you just think about the interest in some of the bigger guys after the sales in Brazil and in some of the other basins, where do you think is going to be the most interesting and sort of what kind of feel are you getting, CapEx last year versus this year – I mean, next year versus 2013?

That's hard to say at this stage, because we don't even know where 2013 will land. We have sort of, at this point, cautioned a little bit about being too optimistic on the spending for 2013. But in our dialog with clients, it's – currently, it's much more down to specific surveys they want to do and not sort of on the aggregate level yet. But I think they will start to come out with these things in the next few weeks and months. And we are not privy to any sort of earlier aggregate numbers to them.

But we see a healthy demand for 2014, both MultiClient and contract wise. And that's why we have expressed a bit of confidence in terms of our ability to book up the fleet with good pricing, both MultiClient wise and contract wise; and pre-funding wise and contract money wise. And with that, it will go without saying that you will have good sales opportunities for late sales data as well. I'm not sure if that helps you anything, but that – I think that...

Yes. I know it's a little bit early, but I'm just trying to get a feel for sort of what people are trying – are thinking about or what you're seeing. So I mean, because I think everyone's now – we've moved on from 2013, and everybody's already in 2014 in their heads.

Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's fine, that's fine. And to us, that is promising, that what we have booked so far on the contract side points even though slightly up, it's still up from – I've seen [indiscernible] (25:46)...

Right.

2014 to – could come down. But we have a good backlog, and the price is up. It's not like we have bought the backlog cheaply.

Thank you. That's very helpful.

Yeah, thanks.

Our next question comes from Mats Olimb of DNB Markets. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Firstly, I was wondering if you could provide some color on how much of your book capacity is allocated to MultiClient in 2014.

Yeah, it is a bit of Vanguard survey in Uruguay that goes into Q1, and it is the full Azimuth, Gulf of Mexico. Those are the two bookings that relates to next year. And the rest is contract, and contract is mainly Brazil and North Sea.

Okay. That's helpful. And also, just a bookkeeping question, really. In terms of the CapEx for Q4, I guess I can figure out what's based – left for new builds, but could you give a split in terms of – the split with maintenance CapEx and GeoStreamer upgrade in Q4?

I don't have that breakdown actually available for Q4 specifically. I may have to revert to you on that if you need it. I apologize for that.

Okay. That's fine. And then just finally from me, if you could provide some color on your expectations for the Russian Arctic going into 2014?

Yeah. It's early days. There are bids coming out. We intend to bid for them. And then, we have to see where they land. It's – there's not much to say at this stage, at least from us, over and beyond that. It's.

Okay. But is it fair to say that just looking at your geographical distribution of sales leads from Q2 to Q3, there seems to be not any meaningful increases. Is that a fair assumption?

In Arctic for next year?

In Russia, specifically.

Yeah, in Russia, yeah. I think there might be an increase as planned. The question is how much of that is in the end coming through? And that's where we normally have applied a bit of a probability weighting on this data. And that's why the number looks like it looks. We may be wrong, and it may be more. But this is our best guess, based on experience.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you, guys. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Rob Pulleyn of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good afternoon. A couple more questions from me, if I may. First of all, if I may ask the switch back of vessel allocation from MultiClient to contract next year and taking onboard what you said about cost inflation and potential price increases, it sounds like the profitability for contract is going to remain broadly the same. Therefore, the decision to move more vessels into contract implies the profitability in MultiClient is falling. I just want to check I'm inferring that correctly.

And secondly, just picking up on a comment on the presentation, you saying MultiClient sales will not be as seasonally strong in the fourth quarter. Could you give us a little bit more color around that? Is that specifically for yourselves? Is that sort of a wider for industry phenomenon? Thank you very much.

Yeah. Thanks, Rob. I think your conclusion is not necessarily right. But when we look at next year, we do see a reasonably healthy contract business ahead of us, and we've always had a philosophy that we will then swing a bit more capacity back into contract. Even in this quarter, we also had a very healthy MultiClient margin, but we are building library. So I think one thing we would look for next year is to harvest from that library.

Most of the build-up in the net book value on the library this year is North Sea related. It's the prime area for high returns historically for us. So we are not very worried about our ability to sell data, but we would like to see that come through as part of the business. So it's really more a trade-off when you look at the opportunity space we have, the library we have to sell, and where we need to invest to move forward in the MultiClient business.

We have for the last three years been on a gradual improving EBIT margin path in MultiClient. And we think that will continue, partly because we are running off older library that was invested in before we put the focus on that organization, and partly because we are growing with very healthy prospects in the MultiClient business.

But you shouldn't read that as MultiClient is becoming less attractive to contracts or anything like that. We may well see next year, a MultiClient margin that is higher than contract when we sum it up, which would eventually mean more sales from the latest portfolio, and good cash flow. It's early days to draw early conclusions here. There was one other thing you asked, Rob. That was...?

Yeah, you meant.

Late sales, yeah.

Yeah. In the fourth quarter.

Yeah. It – to us, it is the reflection partly of how we read the market overall with a risk that is, say, cash flow cautiousness among our clients could have an effect on the normally very strong Q4 late sales. And we have assumed it will have some effect. And partly, it also is a reflection of some of our late library that we had planned to sell in Q4 in particular, for instance, Lebanon data that it may be postponed post Q4. And there is some sort of – we have opted to take down the expectation for late sales in Q4. So it's a bit of the overview of the market and a bit company-specific factors in play there.

Okay. That's very clear. And thanks for the extra color. And sorry, just one extra question, if I can squeeze it in. Given the potential, and I know it's early days and you haven't given specific guidance, but given the potential for more vessels doing contract versus MultiClient next year, are we to presume from that that the actual dollar level of MultiClient investment will fall as well? Just want to clarify that. Thank you.

That is not given, because I mean, if we reduce – first of all, in case we have 5%, but at the same time we increase the capacity with 15%. You have to sort of trade that off when you're going to come to your dollar value. So I think we can...

Yes.

Come back to – when we come to the Capital Markets Day in terms of where that will sit.

Okay, very clear. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Thanks, Rob. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further signals for questions at the moment.

Okay. Then we thank you, all for participating, and wish you all a nice day. Thank you.

That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.