Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President- IR & Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Monika Rajoria — Analyst, Societe Generale Global Solution Centre Pvt Ltd.
Daniel Råvik — Analyst, Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Norway)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Thank you. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's fourth quarter and preliminary full-year 2015 results. My name is name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President of IR and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, Chief Executive Officer; and Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer. On today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård. We're going to use a few of the slides from this morning's earnings presentation starting with slide number three in the slide deck that is available on the net. This is a highlight slide for the 2015 performance where the two most important messages is, number one, the MultiClient performance during the year who has come out relatively strong, quite a small decline in revenue despite the relatively challenging market that we have seen across the board. The other important element is the financial position where we have during 2015 strengthened our liquidity reserve and reduced our net debt due to a number of factors that Gottfred will come back to in a later slide.

We continue to drive out costs, we continue to reduce our CapEx, and we are taking corrective steps to address the industry overcapacity as we see some of our peers are doing as well. Through the stacking of old vessels and the delivery of the new highly productive vessels, we are improving year-on-year our productivity advantage and our flexibility when it comes to the fleet size.

We continue to focus on what we can control, which is cost reduction, cash and capacity management and, needless to say, a relentless effort on the sales side. We are competitively positioned and robust enough to navigate the current market environment.

The next slide I would like to comment on initially is slide number five in the same peck. Order book over the last three quarters measured at quarter end has been relatively stable, currently sitting at $240 million by end of Q4, a slight decline but bear in mind that there was also a slightly higher capacity to be kept busy in Q2 2015 compared to what we have to play with today.

When it comes to the visibility in terms of booked capacity, it has improved since last – same time last year. The percentages are referred to as per February 5, which is the latest update where we have 100% booking for Q1 of the capacity we have available for operations which is quite a bit up from last year similarly for Q2, 80%; and Q3, 50% bookings. So, an improved visibility when it comes to vessel booking for the following quarters.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to take us through some of the key numbers.

Thank you. I will talk through a couple of the slides in the financial section. I will start on slide number seven, with the name condensed consolidated statement of profit and loss summary. Revenues ended at $229 million for the quarter, $961.9 million for the year. This represents a market-driven decline of revenues of 34% for the full year compared to full-year 2014.

We have been able to realize substantial cost reductions, sufficient to achieve a stable EBITDA margin, i.e., offsetting proportionally the revenue decline. EBITDA margin both in the fourth quarter and for the full year, approximately 50% which is [ph] clearly a notch up (05:35) from the same period in 2014. And EBITDA then ended at $116.5 million for the fourth quarter and $484.4 million for the full year.

We had some significant non-cash charges in the quarter. These are specified in the slide deck, but I will not review it in this conference.

I will move to slide number nine, Q4 2015 operational highlights. Total MultiClient revenues for the quarter, $165.5 million. Prefunding revenues ended at $98 million, which corresponds to a pre-funding level for the quarter of 140%. The pre-funding revenues were strongest in North and South America. Late sales, $67.5 million, driven by primarily our European library position.

Marine contract revenues, $43.5 million in the quarter. This is a low number as you can see from the chart illustrating the contract revenues. Revenues in the contract area was negatively impacted by low pricing, steaming, and mobilization for new surveys, and also a reduction in the operated capacity in [ph] Swiss stack (07:07) for vessels during the fourth quarter.

I will then move quite a bit down the slide and stop at slide number 15, if we look at it on cost. So, the slide is called proactive cost reductions continue in 2016. Compared to 2014, the 2015 full-year cash cost was down approximately $280 million if we include the restructuring cost in the 2015 cost. If those are disregarded or excluded, the cost reduction ended up at $320 million approximately. Further cost reductions will bring the 2015 cost down another $110 million net to end at approximately $725 million for the full year.

Tight cost control continues obviously. And then, in relation, we get the full-year effect from the initiatives that we took in 2015. Slightly offsetting effect from entering Ramform Tethys into operations like Q1, which has a net effective increase in costs, $30 million, with $110 million reduction is net of all these effects. Cost discipline has a high priority in 2016, and there is potential for further cost reduction. It is not unlikely that we will get further down to around $700 million or possibly below as we proceed through the year.

Moving to slide number 16, consolidated statements of cash flow summary. We have strong cash flow from operations relative to the earnings level, both in fourth quarter and for the full year. Both of the periods benefited from a favorable working capital development. And as you can see from the numbers, cash flow from operations for both the quarter and full year is slightly higher than the reported EBITDA number.

You would also see that 2015 full year ended cash flow positive before financing activities even after $116.6 million of new build CapEx for the year. Cash position at year-end benefited from $104.2 million of net proceeds from the private placement that we have completed in the fourth quarter.

Then, moving to the next slide 17, balance sheet key numbers. We have strengthened our financial position through a very difficult year. Our net interest-bearing debt is reduced by $53.8 million and at $994.2 million. Liquidity reserve has been increased by $102 million, ending at $556.6 million. In addition, to that quoted liquidity reserve, we have $228 million of undrawn export credit facilities available to cover remaining yard payments for our new builds.

So in sum, financially, we are well positioned to handle a challenging market. Jon Erik, I hand it over back to you.

Thank you. A few slides to go, slide number 20, which is a summary of the main actions we have taken to take the lead through a challenging market. We have been and we'll continue to be proactive when it comes to the financial management of our system in order to create and maintain a cyclical robustness.

As we embarked on this strategic journey that we refer to here, which was back in 2010, we have built a solid MultiClient business in order to reduce earnings volatility through the cycles, and we see that is playing out the way we hoped for, as you may have seen also through the numbers for 2015. Part of that strategy is to be conservative under pre-funding requirements in order to protect cash flow and not use MultiClient as a vehicle to keep the vessels busy and draining the balance sheet, but rather have a more conservative view on the balance sheet. It also reduces the late sales risk by taking out somewhat more over the pre-funding and, of course, it reduces library buildups and exposure.

Our new builds are fully funded through the exports credit facilities from Japan that are committed, and it is our strategic view that we need to have the lowest cash cost position per streamer to have the winning formula in terms of also surviving and gaining market share in a challenging market. So we do own some vessels for that reason, vessels that we could not charter in from others.

When we build vessels, we build vessels that we think will have an edge for the next 25 years and not only the first 10. And we focus on maximizing value over the life of the vessel. And you will have seen from the presentation today, those who have seen it, we are already now towing 18 streamers with these latest Titan-class vessels when competition typically tow 12 with the same type of streamer spacing.

Over and beyond a core of six ultra high-end vessels, we now plan to charter remaining capacity to gain some more flexibility to future cycles and, of course, to become somewhat less capital-intensive, more capital-light when it comes to the fleet as assets. We continue to invest in technology. We continue to focus on cost and to drive out cost off the system, and we are very strict when it comes to spending money on the core and not become too exotic in a market where cash and liquidity is king.

Moving to slide 22, we still expect around 300,000 squares to be collected in 2016, which is, given the environment, quite a high number – some would say a surprisingly high number – and at par with square kilometers acquired in 2008 and 2009. And then on the streamer side, we now see a significant reduction over the last couple of years, roughly 50% down from the peak in 2013, which does bring us closer to a supply-demand balance.

When you look at 300,000 square kilometers, you could argue, yes, there are some factors to be adjusted for. [ph] Some of the service (15:08) might not be fully prefunded, which would indicate some softness in the market. Some of them are with a wider stream of spacing, so the [indiscernible] (15:17) might not be accurate. But still it was possible in 2008 and 2009 to make a substantial profit from this industry. And we think the problem is not the volume but the supply side. And as long as the supply side continues to come down, we should be closer and closer to a balanced market.

Turning to slide number 23, the graph shows the active tenders and all sales leads in the marine contract business as we have monitored this for many years. Three factors to consider when you look at this graph. Number one, it's a graph in U.S. dollars, and it is probability weighted in terms of what we think is the likely scenario for a given survey to go through. And of course, the probability on average is lower these days than it was a couple of years back due to the oil companies have a tighter regime on approving projects. Both of them will, even on the same square kilometer basis, drive the value of the curves down.

And thirdly, this is a graph illustration of marine contract business, while we still know that the share of the business becoming MultiClient has increased over the last couple of years. So, there is a natural reduction in volume and, therefore dollar value also for that reason.

The work we see being still done is mainly in these four categories to the right. It is oil companies that want to position for strategically important license rounds, which basically means having knowledge about license rounds before you are to bid and put money on the table to get access; partly seismic commitments post-award of licenses on the E&P side that has to be done within a certain timeframe; partly some opportunistic spending due to the low unit price of seismic surveys; and then finally, production seismic pre-development or as monitoring surveys over producing fields. Currently, the best contract opportunities are in South America and Africa, and we also have some emerging opportunities in Europe for the summer season.

And with that, we will jump straight to the last two slides, slide 28, which is just a repeat of the guiding we issued in – during the Capital Markets Day in this early December. We have commented today that we do expect the cash costs to come down further and that we will not be surprised if we're able to push that down to $700 million or below. And there is also a slight adjustment on the CapEx. It's up $10 million just for cut-off reasons end of 2015 [indiscernible] (18:28) $10 million lower, that has been transferred to 2016.

In conclusion, we continue to act proactively in a relatively uncertain market. We had delivered strong results on the MultiClient side during the year. We are continuing to improve fleet flexibility and productivity, and we now have the youngest and most productive fleet in the industry. And there is more to come, as you may know with one boat this year and another one early next year. We stay tight on cash. And we preserve our liquidity reserve as much as we are able to.

And we are also addressing the short-term capacity and improving our long-term fleet flexibility. All in all, putting our efforts where we can contribute in terms of cost reduction, cash discipline, capacity management and, needless to say, relentless efforts on the sales side.

And with that, I hand over to Bård Stenberg to take us further.

Okay. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Hello. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from SpareBank 1 Markets. In terms of the Sanco vessels, as the Sanco Sword will not enter operation before fourth quarter, would that imply that the charter costs will be capitalized until startup or how will we read this?

No, it will be expensed on a day-by-day basis until we start operation. And it is included though in the $725 million cash cost indication for 2016.

Is it safe to assume that the agreement you have with the holders of the revolving credit facility would imply that you cannot use debt to pay down other debt? Or have you full flexibility there?

No, that's a wrong – your assumption is wrong. There's no limitation on [indiscernible] (21:26) agreements on repaying or repurchasing debt.

Okay. And the final question. You have fully booked first quarter and I think you said earlier today that you expect to use less than 50% of active vessel time and MultiClient in first quarter. Would you give rough indications for where you expect off-hire and MultiClient utilization to be in the first quarter as it looks?

No, I don't think we want to give a lot more indication. I think it's fair to say that when we say we're 100% or we say close to 100% sold, that also indicates a relatively low number for off-hire. I think I can clarify. But the MultiClient contract allocation, I don't' think we want to specify more than what we said in the release.

Yeah. But it would be less than 50% for first quarter on MultiClient?

Yes, yes. That's what we said. It will be les in the first quarter.

Yeah. Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. I'm Monika Rajoria from Societe Generale. I have one question, please. As you remember in the Capital Markets Day, you had pointed out that we might see the seismic data. It's moving independently of the oil price. Would you like to give some more color on that?

Yeah. The basis for saying that was that we think there is a likelihood that we can reach supply-demand balance even if the oil price remains at the current level or slightly above or slightly below for a longer period. And the driver for that is, number one, the volumes. We still see oil companies are either contracting or sponsoring in terms of acquired square kilometers this year, matched up against the remaining available capacity and the trending of that capacity should the market stay as it is where renewal CapEx needs will basically force even more capacity out. So that's kind of the rationale behind that statement.

All right. And one more please. If you want to see group orders like the one Statoil gave, do you see that also becoming a trend or it's just a one-off phenomenon?

Well, it's definitely not a major trend if you refer to the group shoots that were done in 2014 up in the Barents. We do it. It's part of our contract business and – so it's not sort of a big difference for us as a company whether it comes in one bucket or the other. But we have not seen any more of these since these three that came in parallel for the summer of 2014.

Okay. Thank you.

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good afternoon. This is Daniel Råvik from Handelsbanken. I was just wondering if you could comment a little bit on the visibility that you have for the estimate that you have in demand for 300,000 square kilometers in 2016. What kind of visibility do you have for that figure?

It is, as always, an estimate based on dialog with clients region by region. And of course, what we see oil companies and peers of ours are putting [ph] in the permit (25:56) applications, and how we then consider the realism of these going through. So, there are a few data sources we put together to make the estimates, but it is an estimate. But we have, earlier years, been pretty good at hitting that estimate. Whether we are equally clever this year remains to be seen. But normally, we have had decent predictability on these numbers.

All right. Thanks. And would you say that that correlates well with the current sort of tender graph that you have with us, that requires a significant uptick, so to say, in that active tenders graph that you have in order to reach that number?

Yeah. I think I commented on the earnings call this morning that the tender graph has a cut off end of the year. And we have since then seen an uptick on the leads graph, the leading indicator to the tender graph. But then, I said, whether that is a sustainable trend or an indication that now, the oil companies are willing to talk to us about something that has finally been approved in their budgets, is too early to say.

But since the tender graph is sort of the contract market-only, and not the full market, it's sort of a segment of what we put into the evaluation when we look at full-year estimate for square kilometers. And I – it's fully doable to come to the 300,000 with what you see expressed in the tender graph when you look at the overall market.

Okay.

And you can kind of compare the graph at the same time a year ago. It was not substantially higher, and we hit an even higher number for square kilometers. And that is not because the prices were lower in the tender graph last year. On the contrary.

All right. Thanks. And...

Yes.

...finally for me, could you just briefly comment a little bit around the – I mean, you listed four sort of – the four drivers there, positioning strategically, important licensing rounds from production, seismic, et cetera.

Yes.

Could you give us some color and rough comments on the proportion of these, so to say, in terms of activity in 2016?

I think the dominant share, meaning then 60%, 70%, I would estimate is probably in the two first categories that has to do with license round, either pre- or post-award of licenses. That will sit there. And that is, of course, also the main share of what sits in the MultiClient bucket.

And then it is sort of evenly split between production, seismic and some discretion?

No, I would probably say production, seismic might be – slightly more than the opportunistic spend. Opportunistic spending is two things in a way the way we see the – partly in some service we see are being made larger than they had planned for because it's high value to get some extra squares for the low square kilometers' rates the market offers today and the other one is where you're going and do a survey that you may want to do two years or three years from now. But you're not sure the rates are going to be pretty low at that point, and therefore, you get it done now when the unit cost is low. But there is more in the production seismic bucket than in the opportunistic spending bucket as we estimated today.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. This is Christopher again from SpareBank 1 Markets with a follow-up question. It's been a while since I heard about [indiscernible] (30:20). Could you please update us on the status for that vessel? Those agreements still – I would assume still contributes with revenues to PGS, but care to give benefit, clarifications regarding size of that contribution? Thank you.

It's still ongoing but we are not disclosing any information on the [indiscernible] (30:45) project.

And is it a correct assumption that, the current agreement expires early 2018?

The initial agreement that you refer to is correct, and then I don't have any further comments in terms of where we are today. It's a project that still has more work to be done and we are working very closely with the Ministry of Economy and Trade and Industry with that as a headline, if you like.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions in the phone queue at this time.

Okay. That concludes this conference call. Thank you all for participating and goodbye.