Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Fiona M. Maclean — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International (United Kingdom)
Ryan W. Kauppila — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead, gentlemen.

Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS conference call, presenting the Company's earnings report for the fourth quarter 2012 and the preliminary annual results. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in PGS. With us from management today are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; Mr. Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Mr. Bård Stenberg, who is Head of Investor Relations.

At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, go through a couple of slides and then open the lines for questions. Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions for the future, and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements.

The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements, and factors and risks that should cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in our annual report.

By that, I'll turn the call over to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.

Good morning and good afternoon. We will start with slide number 3 in the slide pack we have distributed in connection with the presentation this morning here in Norway. We have delivered a relatively strong 2012 with two quarters I would describe as superb, the second and the third and two quarter where we have identified improvement potential, a potential we go after with full force into 2013. Overall, a significant improvement over 2011 on all key numbers. Revenues ended up at $1.518 billion; record MultiClient revenues of $728 million, first time MultiClient revenues have exceeded contract revenues; an EBIT of $293.8 million, which is a group EBIT margin of 19%; and an earnings – cash from operations a very strong $752.9 million, and earnings per share of $0.86.

We have delivered on the 2012 Profit Improvement Program, some of the effects from that will continue to come into 2013 with full-year effect. We continue to strengthen our financial position through establishment of two further credit facilities; the $250 million Japanese export credit, which will be drawn upon delivery of the Titan vessels; and another $150 million raised in December as an add-on to the senior notes.

Through 2012, we have also made significant breakthroughs in our technology portfolio, that over time going forward will diversify our earnings potential and revenue stream. First and foremost, the Towed EM solution that has now been commercially used in the fourth quarter and where we are now working on booking up work for the North Sea summer season and partly Barents summer season.

Secondly, we have successfully installed the Permanent Reservoir Monitoring system based on our OptoSeis technology. This is a pilot for the Jubarte field first technology for monitoring in the world to be installed deeper than 1,000 meters water depth, and we finished the surveying – first survey over that spread now in February this year.

And finally, a number of imaging innovations coming through on the back of our GeoStreamer and built on that GeoStreamer platform. The board will propose to the shareholder meeting an ordinary dividend of NOK1.65 per share, which is up 50% from our 2011 dividend.

We'll then move to slide number 5, just to quickly stop and observe, the backlog is increasing. There is good increase on all fronts and, not the least, we have built good backlog when it comes to pre-funding commitments for this year. That is a significant part of that increase. There are still some capacity to sell, but good potential as I will come back to later.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth for a walkthrough of some of the financial numbers.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 7, consolidated statement of operations summary. Q4 revenues were $360.1 million, that is an increase of 4% compared to Q4 2011. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $162.2 million, up 12%, and operating profit EBIT, $60.7 million, which is 40% up from Q4 2011. Income before income tax expense was $45 million. Our tax expense in the quarter was relatively low, $4.8 million or approximately 8% of pre-tax profit. The tax expense is favorably impacted by operational investments in the Norwegian tonnage tax regime and foreign currency changes in the quarter.

I then move to the next slide, number 8, Q4 and 2012 highlights. Total MultiClient revenues in the quarter were $147.2 million, late sales of $65.8 million and pre-funding revenues of $81.4 million. The pre-funding revenues corresponded to 114% of the capitalized cash investments. And for the full-year 2012, the pre-funding ratio was 155%.

Marine Contract revenues were $156.3 million in the fourth quarter. That is slightly down from Q4 2011, as we used less of our 3D capacity for contract acquisition in this fourth quarter. The EBIT margin on marine contract work was 12% in the fourth quarter and 16% for the full-year 2012. On the processing side, we have strong external revenues of – amounting to $32.3 million in total.

I then move a few slides to slide number 12, Group Cost development, only some quick comments. We had sequential increase of $16 million from third to fourth quarter, the primary reason for that is cost of sales relating to the delivery and installation of the OptoSeis system on the Jubarte field. Other variances on the cost side between the quarters net out to approximately zero.

Moving onto slide number 13, consolidated statement of cash flow summary. The full year cash flow from operations ended at $752.9 million, that's a 57% increase compared to 2011. The full year cash flow before financing activities or cash flow after investing activities, if you prefer, that was positive, $94.9 million, which means that after all our MultiClient investments and CapEx including the $202 million on new build CapEx, we had – our operating cash flow exceeded those expenditures by almost $100 million for the year, which is strong in a year of expansion.

Total CapEx in 2012 ended at $358.5 million, which is lower than what we guided earlier, $400 million to $450 million, primarily related to cutoff between 2012 and 2013. Therefore, our CapEx guiding for 2013 is almost correspondingly increased.

We did a successful offering of an additional $150 million of our senior notes due 2018 at attractive terms in December. Notes were issued at 107.5% of par. This notes issue together with the export credit financing that we signed earlier in October puts us in a very good position on the funding side.

Moving to slide number 14, strong balance sheet position, key figures. Balance sheet position is very strong. I will highlight a few of the line items; MultiClient library book value is $382.3 million, which is a modest level considering the level of investment that we have made during the last year and previous; shareholders' equity, $1.9 billion, an equity ratio of 59%; liquidity reserve, $740 million; and a net interest bearing debt of $435 million. The ratio of net interest bearing debt to EBITDA stands at 0.56 by year end, which is well inside our policy, which allows for a multiple of 2 in a weak market and a multiple of 1 in a strong market.

With that, I give the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you. We will move to slide number 18, Market activity. E&P spending continued to increase and we see a healthy level of tender activity. We are in the process now where awards are being given on the North Sea bids and, therefore, you may see that blue curve relax a little bit, taper off a little bit when bids are converted to backlog in the industry. But the trends indicate pricing and margin uplift from the 2012 season. And when it comes to all sales leads, it is at a very comfortable high level, back to first half of 2008 basically. Now, bear in mind that we have more vessels to entertain with work than we had in 2008, so it's not sort of a full apples-to-apples comparison and there's also this element of unit rate pricing built into this curve. But still, good bid opportunities and proportion of bids favoring GeoStreamer continues to increase.

Then, to slide 19, when it comes to demand growth, we see a very healthy demand growth over the last seven years with an average annual growth of 12%; 2012 over 2011 being significantly stronger than earlier growth rates. Part of that is driven by larger surveys, so there's a growth in square kilometers because the larger surveys generate more squares per vessel than it has done in earlier years. So it's not the true reflection of demand growth, what we see here now on the curve, there's also a bit of shift in content or work that is going on.

On the supply side, 7% increase as we observe it in 2012. We expect capacity, this is all expressed in active streamers; 4% in 2013; 2% in 2014; so the next two years, this and the next looks very promising when it comes to supply-demand balance. And then, we see an increase in streamer capacity in 2015 and with yesterday's announcement, a bit, maybe another couple of percentage points increase over and above the 7%, I have then the Dolphin high-end vessel in mind.

Moving then to slide number 21. We have now completed upgrade of all the vessels we planned to upgrade in the normal- to high-end range. What's left is our two ultra high-end vessels, Ramform Sterling and Ramform Sovereign, plus delivery of the four Titan class vessels. And interestingly enough, there are more GeoStreamers to come to our fleet that we currently have installed even though we have or taken 80% of the existing capacity as upgraded already. So, in terms of our offering to the market, there is a phenomenal increased GeoStreamer offering to come to the market over the next three years, basically, or less than three years.

We will then move to slide number 24. Just to quickly comment on the outlook, we see sustained solid market activity. Oil companies are more proactive in securing capacity. North Atlantic summer season 2013 this year will be stronger than 2012. GeoStreamer interest continues to increase to new record levels. And we have a comfortable order book with good visibility into second half of 2013.

On the guidance, we maintained our EBITDA range from $940 million to $980 million. MultiClient investment we see in the same range as we said in December. Capital expenditures is up for the year to $540 million to $570 million, mainly driven by increase in CapEx due to cross-over from 2012. You will see that the capital expenditure for 2012 is significantly lower than the guidance range we gave at third quarter.

So, this is basically a cut over – cutoff issue and approximately $325 million to $350 million of the new build program will be new build program on the total. And with that, I hand back to Tore Langballe.

Thank you. And then, we kindly ask our operator to assist us in the Q&A session, please.

Thank you, gentlemen. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Christopher Møllerløkken. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes, good afternoon. Regarding the Titan new builds in Japan, would it be fair to assume that also vessel number 3 and 4 will cost $260 million each as number 1 and 2.

Well, we are considering some further improvements on the seismic equipment side that may bring the costs somewhat higher. But this is something we will come back to at a later stage when we have decided on what to do with the vessels. This will almost – for most be productivity-related installations that we think of.

Okay. On the revenues, we're up strongly in fourth quarter due to the Jubarte contract. Would the rate coming forward be more compared to what we saw in Q1 to Q3 last year or would it still be Jubarte installation revenues in other revenues going forward?

It will be more comparable to what we've seen in the earlier quarter, I believe in the range of say $25 million for the full-year 2013.

Is there anything left on Jubarte in your backlog now? Or is it – has it been fully worked off?

It is around $40 million, reflecting in a way around $25 million I mentioned for 2013. And then we had the contract covers acquisition [ph] the receipted acquisition on the extra (18:13) for the first three years.

And just two bookkeeping questions. The corporate cost seems to be very low in fourth quarter. Was there anything in particular causing the cost in corporate to be low? And secondly, if we look on the contract EBIT in dollars and the estimated MultiClient EBIT for fourth quarter, there seems to be gap there versus the reported EBIT. Was it a loss related to the installation on the Jubarte contract or was the MultiClient margin softer than the modeling would have indicated? Thank you.

First question, nothing very significant on the corporate cost. One of the items that makes it fluctuate a little bit from quarter to quarter is that it covers also our in-house captive insurance activities and since we didn't have any losses in the quarter, there's a small profit element in there that then reduces the corporate costs.

I captured – I did only capture half of the – your second question. That was...?

Yes. If you look on the total reported marine EBIT and compare it with the marine contract EBIT margin and then the implied dollar EBIT from contract, the modeled EBIT from MultiClient business and compare those three numbers, there seems to be a gap there in fourth quarter, which would indicate that either MultiClient profits is lower than the model would assume, or that you had a loss on processing or the Jubarte contract. Would you care to give any more flavor?

What modeled MultiClient margin did you put in to arrive at the conclusion as I just...

36.

That MultiClient margin in the fourth quarter was slightly lower than 36; I think it is 35. And I think that's the primary explanation. And there was a – on the Jubarte delivery approximately breakeven for the project in the quarter.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from Fiona Maclean from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Hi, yes. It's Fiona at Merrill Lynch. I have a question about the outlook for 2013 in MultiClient. Could you tell me where you expect to be positioning your boats in the various markets? And are there any markets in particular you think will be most active? And also keen to hear your thoughts on the license front in Brazil. Thank you.

Yeah. The main activities for this year will obviously be North Sea as we have been doing this GeoStreamer campaign for four years earlier. We continue to do that. Potentially also Barents. We will have a full year in Uruguay. We will have significant activity in Angola, MultiClient. And we will have 2D activity in Namibia and Greece, and further investments in Eastern Mediterranean. Those are the ones we have in the plan today. There will be some others added as we move forward.

When it comes to Brazil, we are currently doing an investment, MultiClient wise, in Brazil, which is what we foresee at present for the full year. And our expectations on sales by volume is primarily related to the pre-salt that seems to be coming in November, because that's where we have most of our 3D library. Yeah.

Okay. And the next thing I just wanted to ask was about capacity in general in the industry, so as you touched on it before, Dolphin have come out with an announcement regarding a net new vessel in the next few years. Are you seeing any other signs of anyone else in the industry looking to bring their capacity onstream, particularly as we have turned the corner in this cycle and things are improving?

The only thing we know of is I think there was a disclosure yesterday and there was an option for another vessel with Dolphin. And we also believe we've been told that WesternGeco has a few options related to their latest new builds. So, I think that's the most likely candidate for more capacity further on. And how that will be timed, I have no idea about, but you could still see more capacity hit 2015, obviously, if you just look at the timeline of what is possible to do in terms of new builds from now on.

Yes. And just finally from me, just a bit of housekeeping. What would you expect depreciation to be in full-year 2013?

That's a good question. I will just have to tune in on where I have the information stored. I think it is fair to say that it's likely to increase slightly from what we reported for 2012. In 2012, our depreciation was around $150 million, I believe. It's a slight [ph] bit (24:56) from that.

Okay.

So, we will have the impact of the new vessel Ramform Titan from third – second quarter and then we have, in a way, an increase in the total volume of equipment on the vessels in general.

Okay. I'm sorry. Just one last thing. You had much less time in the yards in 2012. Do you think 2013 is going to be another year where yard stays are going to be quite light?

Yes. At least for the next six months, we have two yard stays in the plan. So, it looks like a lighter year, isn't it?

It is – it was onto lighter years than expected of the yard space, yep.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Ryan Kauppila from Citi. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good afternoon. Just a quick one. Late sales across the industry were probably a bit disappointing in Q4. Just wondering what you would attribute that to?

It's not easy to say. I mean on our part, there is – overall for the year, it's actually historically quite strong, but our boost came in Q2, Q3 more than in Q4. Very often, the last years, we've had a few sales of sort of significant value, $20 million, $30 million for one sale. And very often, earlier years, that has ended up in the fourth quarter. This time, it came in earlier quarters. So that explains for us a little bit of the fluctuation.

And it's probably also an effect in terms of how we are positioned relative to where the license rounds are. Could be an element that oil companies have spent more evenly distributed over the year rather than lumping it up towards the end. But then, you start to move into more speculative views. But it looks, as you say that on average, it is a bit softer on late sales. But those who have had active projects going on will, of course, still have high revenues based on the pre-funding.

Okay. It's perfect. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take another question from Christopher Møllerløkken. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes. Just two short follow-up questions. Firstly, tax was fairly low in fourth quarter. Would you care to give any guidance for tax rate going forward? And the second, last one, you have a slide showing the group cost development. You have a bit fewer groups now versus previously. Could you care to say where you have included yard cost and leased-in vessels going forward? Thank you.

Yes, yard costs and leased-in vessels are included in the caption operations, which is the bottom caption. And, with respect to tax rate going forward, there's no reason – in a way, the Q4 tax cost was also impacted by elements, particularly the foreign currency rates which are not kind of expected to repeat itself regularly in the future. The effective tax rate, what we've said on our Capital Markets Day still stands. We're looking ahead with, we believe would be at 25% or below.

And the reason – primary reason for below is operating vessels in the Norwegian tonnage tax regime where the benefit is larger, in a way, if the market is better. And we indicated that this benefit could be $30 million to $50 million on the tax expense in a reasonably strong market. You should also add that normally for the next year's part of that tax expense will be, in a way, using tax assets and will not be cash taxes.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Gentlemen, we have no further questions in the queue.

Okay, then we thank you all for participating and wish you all a nice day. Thank you very much.

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.