Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Saumya Senapati — Analyst, Merrill Lynch International (United Kingdom)
Jørgen Andreas Lande — Analyst, Nordea Bank Norge ASA (Broker)
Julien Laurent — Analyst, Natixis SA (Broker)
Caroline L. Hickson — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers, and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to the conference call presenting the company's earnings report for the first quarter of 2013. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in PGS. With me this morning is Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, our CEO; and Gottfred Langseth who is the CFO.

At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, referring to the presentation available on our website. And then we'll open the questions – the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I'd like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in the latest annual report.

So, by that, I hand over the call to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.

Thank you, Tore. Needless to say, we are very pleased with the start of 2013 with a quarterly set of numbers giving an EBITDA of $202.3 million, which is up 39% from Q1 2012. Even stronger in EBIT of $96.8 million, which is up 170% from Q1 2012, and a group EBIT margin of 25%.

For PGS, we estimate an average marine contract pricing for 2013 to be up 10%-15% from the average level for 2012. This is slightly down from what we have indicated earlier, about 15%, but still a significant improvement year-on-year. Most of this pricing improvement, given the high operational leverage we have, will of course translate into the bottom line. And as a reference point to that, we had a contract margin of 16% in 2012.

We also see a market that further is expected to strengthen in terms of demand and pricing in 2014. And we have, as I also said this morning on the presentation, early negotiations and price discussions that supports this view.

Not the least, Ramform Titan is coming to the market this quarter with the start of the first survey early July. And we do reiterate our full-year 2013 guidance.

We're moving to the slide number four in the presentation, just seeing the illustration of the strong EBIT margin. And not the least, working capital, $100 million, is somewhat lower than the previous quarter, and it's driven by working capital fluctuations.

Order backlog sits around $600 million. Main driver for the change, obviously, the Q4 backlog was record high, but also its main driver is a somewhat reduced average backlog per vessel. We talk about 5 to 5.5 months average versus above six months in the previous backlog, while we have been able to maintain our unit pricing in the backlog. We have booked around $100 million in the first quarter of new work, but burned more than that. Still we consider this backlog very comfortable relative to historical levels of outlook and relative to peers not the least.

Vessel booking is 95% for Q2, 60% for Q3 and 40% for Q4. And another reason for being confident is obviously that we still see a very strong demand for our GeoStreamer vessels. They are normally those being booked up first in our backlog.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to take us through some of the numbers.

Thank you. I will start on slide number seven, consolidated statement of operations summary. Revenues in first quarter of $394.8 million; that's up 8% compared to Q1 2012. EBITDA in the quarter, $202 million, 39% up, and operating profit or EBIT, $96.8 million, an increase of 170%.

Net financial items in the quarter reduced compared to first quarter last year, $8.9 million. Tax expense, $25 million, corresponding to 29% reported tax rate, which leads a net income to equity holders of $62.5 million and $0.29 per share.

Moving to the next slide, eight, Q1 2013 highlights, total MultiClient revenues in the quarter were $151.5 million, $58.9 million out of this were late sales and $92.6 million were pre-funding revenues which represented a strong 126% pre-funding rate as percent of MultiClient cash investments. Marine contract revenues were $207.3 million which is up 18% from Q1 2012, with an EBIT margin of 30%. We had external data processing revenues of $27.1 million, slightly down from the preceding quarters since we used more of our processing capacity for internal MultiClient processing.

I will then move to slide number 12, group cost development. Stable development of total cost with $265 million in first quarter, down from $272 million in Q1 2012 and $268 million in Q4 2012. Compared to the fourth quarter, we had lower cost relating to OptoSeis since the system delivery was completed on the Jubarte field in December, but there are higher costs relating to net amortized steaming cost and certain other project-related cost.

Moving to slide number 13, consolidated statements of cash flow summary. Cash flow from operating activities, $102.7 million in the quarter compared to $151.6 million in the first quarter 2012. The improved earnings in Q1 2013 was offset by increased of working capital in the quarter. Net working capital changes are primarily project-driven and also reflecting usual seasonality after a relatively low year-end 2012 working capital position.

Moving to slide number 14, strong balance sheet position – key figures. Our balance sheet position is strong. MultiClient library has a book value of $410 million. Shareholders' equity, getting close to $2 billion or 60% of total assets. Strong liquidity reserve, $661 million, and a low net interest-bearing debt of approximately $500 million.

With that, I give the word back to Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you. We will just cover a few of the following slides. First, slide 17. We continue to see the market fundamentals as robust and we see the sales leads, the gray curve continuing to climb, and it's driven by a number of areas around the globe that we expect an uptick in activity in 2014 versus what we see this year. The active tenders curve is down at the moment, which is not unusual post the North Sea awards. There are still some North Sea awards to come but the predominant share of those have been awarded.

I'll also give a quick reflection on slide 18, which is a slide we have borrowed from Goldman in a report came out recently covering the marginal top 380 oil fields which are oil fields or its cost curve [ph] are (09:37) non-producing and recently started oil fields, where it comes through that ultra-deepwater dominates the low-cost production, but also deepwater is favorably positioned relative to heavy oil, oil sands, oil shales et cetera, which, in many ways, speaks to a story of more robust market also for exploration services.

The other element, of course, which leads us to the next slide, 19, as we see more and more deepwater and ultra-deepwater, it drives also the size of the surveys combined with other factors driving that. So we are heading for an average size of surveys this year that comes close to 2,000 square kilometer per survey versus an average, 10 years ago, of 1,000 square kilometer per survey. This is, of course, the main driver for PGS moving into bigger and bigger vessels. It's supported by a long-term underlying market trend and, therefore, we are happy this quarter. And I came back from Japan on Saturday after the naming ceremony and we are now introducing the Ramform Titan this quarter to the market with the first pop being early July in the North Sea.

That was slide 20 and then going to slide 21. We continue to see growth in square kilometers performed per year for the industry. Part of that is driven, as it was in 2012, by the larger surveys, which means you get more square kilometers out of each vessel per year. Partly, the curve is expected to taper off a bit in terms of how it increases, driven by a capacity constrain that we see increasingly coming through as we had it in 2006, 2007 and early 2008.

What we have seen over the last year is an annual growth rate averaging 12% in square kilometers per year, holding that up against an expected capacity increase measured in streamers, active streamers for the industry, this year estimated to be 4% then 5% and 10% in 2015. Of course, these two are not accurate measures of demand and supply neither individually nor holding them up against each other. They are not apples-and-apples, but they are good proxies in each way and gives a good indication of how the market is moving.

And with that, we will move all the way back to the outlook slide. Just to remind ourselves that the average marine contract pricing for 2013 is expected to be up 10%, 15% from the average marine pricing in 2012.

We do expect steaming and yard to be mainly concentrated in Q2 and Q4, which is important when sort of distributing the expectations for the year. And as I said, we do expect market pricing to further strengthen in 2014 based on strong sales leads and current price negotiations. We do see GeoStreamer interest to continue to new record levels.

And finally, on the next slide, we are reiterating our 2013 guidance.

And with that, I turn back to questions.

Okay. Operator, then we please ask you for your assistance.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Sumaya (sic) [Saumya] (13:57) Senapati from Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hello. Good afternoon. This is Saumya Senapati from Bank of America.

Good afternoon.

So I see this morning on the call you said that you would consider allocating any spare capacity in the second half to MultiClient operations. Just wanted to clarify that these are commitments that you would have otherwise – that would have otherwise run into 2014. And also, this will give you more leverage to improve contract pricing in 2014, right?

And my second question, just for housekeeping, do you have some guidance on depreciation and amortization for rest of this year and 2014? Thank you.

To your first question, we have in the plan a certain activity level for MultiClient through the year in terms of vessel utilization, a 40/60 type ratio between MultiClient and contract. And the work we refer to in the second half is basically part of that plan, and is work that we plan to do in the second half. Of course, we could push it should there be even better contract opportunities. On the other hand, we are still focused on having a certain level of activity in MultiClient driven by a desire to create more robustness to the cycles in our industry. But, of course, as we deploy vessels to MultiClient, we have fewer vessels to sell to contract and in that sense, you're right that it gives us a certain leverage towards the contractor market and price discussions there.

To your amortization question, I hand over to Gottfred.

Yes. On depreciation and amortization, and it is the [indiscernible] (15:51) include depreciation first, which is relating to our fixed assets. What we have said earlier is that we expect a slight increase compared to 2012 and the increase is relating to our investment in equipment and also the delivery of new vessels or – and one new vessel now in the second quarter. We have not quantified that any further.

On amortization, which relates to our MultiClient library and MultiClient sales, we had 45% amortization rate in this first quarter. Last year, we had 47% amortization rate for the full year. And what we have said about 2013 is that we expect amortization to be 45% to 50% of sales, so in line with what we had in 2012. We have not given any guidance or indication on depreciation and amortization for 2014.

Thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Jørgen Lande from Nordea. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon. Thank you. Related to the Uruguay survey, is it fair to assume that this contract or MultiClient service is structured in the same way as the Angola job you did in 2012?

Yeah. It's pretty much based on the same principles.

Okay. So last year you guided at the start, very start of 2012 of a very strong pre-funding rate, above 150% or roughly. However, this year, this guidance is much more muted on the pre-funding level despite the relatively high impact on the investment level. Are you being modest on pre-funding guidance for 2013, or has pre-funding levels globally weakened? Thank you.

I think the guidance for this year is pretty much running in parallel with the guidance we had for last year. We had an exceptionally strong first quarter last year also driven by pre-funding from a earlier acquired Brazil survey at that time that boosted the pre-funding because you get revenues and you have already taken the cost at an earlier quarter. So there are other factors at play here when you compare quarter-over-quarter, Q1-to-Q1.

We are pretty confident that we will also, this year, land a pretty high pre-funding level. But there is, as we see both in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Northern Europe area, say, more competition for pre-funding than we saw last year, which is a factor to be aware of when looking into this. But it's not anything that we see as a significant impact either to our guidance or our pre-funding levels for the year.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our next question from Julien Laurent from Natixis. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. A question regarding Jubarte. How do you book the costs to install the cable? Why does it – is it not capitalized on the balance sheet?

The reason it is not capitalized on balance sheet is that our customer now owns the equipment. So the contract entails delivering the system to the client and then acquisition services over three years. So the reason it's not on balance sheet is that it is not ours.

So it's not your equipment, but you will have a contract to repeat the services.

Correct.

Could you just give us any sense of the -- what is the yearly amount that we can expect from that?

It is the service – I can give an indication that it is less than $10 million annually, but – so in that range.

Okay. Thank you

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our next question from Caroline Hickson from UBS. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. I just had a quick question on the tax rate. Obviously, it was higher than expected, and you've explained the reasons for that in this quarter. Will that continue going forward, or is the guidance that you gave of 25% or below still holding?

No, we think with our guidance or indication on the tax rate that there are variables that obviously we can't control such as the currency exchange rates which impact the reported tax rate; it doesn't impact materially our sort of real tax expense. We should be lower than the nominal tax rate since quite a significant portion of our profits are attributed to the ship-owning companies which operate in tax-free regimes. So my expectation is that we will be lower for the full year than what we reported in Q1, and that longer term, we will be at or below 25% as earlier indicated. But there are variables that could cause us to get high on that, particularly if the U.S. dollar strengthens a lot.

Okay. Thanks. And just on the contract margin, I know that you were asked about this this morning and you said you wouldn't – you can't guide quarterly. But is your sort of four-year guidance of sort of 30% to 32% still holding, which is what the slides at the Capital Market Day suggested?

Yeah, I mean, the only place we have sort of given an early indication is, as you say, a graph on the Capital Markets Day that kind of gives a range around 30%. And now we have delivered 30% in the first quarter, and then we just have to see how this evolves. We don't really want to use that as a guiding parameter. The reason for that is that we have experienced that allocation of vessels between MultiClient and contract can cause this margin percentage to fluctuate quite a bit. For instance, if we end up allocating all our GeoStreamer vessels to MultiClient, it will put pressure on the margin on the contract that ends up with all the conventional vessels. So given that we have this split in the fleet between conventional streamers and GeoStreamers, we will see that fluctuation. But for now we are not changing anything when it comes to outlook for the full year on contract, but we give you some more data points on how we see the pricing evolving this year over last year, which is a significant price uptick of 10%-15% on average between the two years.

Then other factors that, of course, quarter-on-quarter will impact on the margin is things like steaming and yard space and operational performance, obviously.

Okay. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thank you. We will now take a follow-up question from Jørgen Lande from Nordea. Please go ahead.

Thank you. So as the pricing improves there for – also our ample signs for 2014, can we expect you to allocate more vessel capacity back to contract for 2014, or is it too early to say?

Well, that's – it is too early to say and it's – I mean what we have done when we organized the company in 2010 in two business streams competing for capacity, the contract and the MultiClient, is actually we have created quite an interesting internal competition for capacity. But we have seen that as contract margin has improved as part of the uptick in the cycle, we've also seen a significant uptick in MultiClient margin. So, therefore, I would like to leave it open also for 2014 in terms of who's going to deliver the highest margin. We have much higher ambition for MultiClient margin that we currently have achieved.

So that will be part of that internal drive for capacity and who is going to come out with capacity in long run. Obviously, we are also adding a lot of capacity, in particular, GeoStreamer capacity over the next couple of years. So that will sort of give both of them more tools to work with, if you like, both of the two business streams.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have no further questions at this time.

Thank you.

[05ZNMV-E Tore Langballe]

Thank you for participating, and have a nice day. Thank you.

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.