Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Caroline L. Hickson — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[ph] Good afternoon to (00:01) international callers and good morning to U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's Preliminary Annual Results for 2013 and our Fourth Quarter Results. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in PGS. With us from management today are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, and then we'll open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in the Annual Report.

By that, I'll turn the call over to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.

Thank you, Tore. We delivered a good year, in particular in light of what's playing out, especially in the second half of the year, with increased focus on free cash flow from our customers, and therefore, [ph] some more (01:20) caution on the spending side. Profitability improves significantly 2013 over 2012, and a strong finish of the year, in particular on the late sales area. Our business model is basically to balance contract and MultiClient, supported by imaging, to maximize profitability for the company over time.

In years where there is – or during the year, coming through pressure on contract, we may shift capacity to MultiClient and vice versa. 2013, we have shifted more capacity to MultiClient. Since the MultiClient basically – model basically assumes income over the following five years versus contract harvesting the whole income the same year, you will anticipate, which is also how it's played out, lower revenues than planned in a year when you shift more capacity to MultiClient.

Still, we've been able to achieve 97% pre-funding for the total in MultiClient investments in the middle of our 80% to 120% normal range. Numbers have been partly supported by further cost reductions through the year that Gottfred Langseth will touch on briefly in the following. EBIT ended up at $382.5 million after a $15 million hit as part of an impairment of one of the vessels available as a source vessel; and EBIT margin of 25%, that we think will stand out to all other vessel owners for the full-year.

Free cash flow from operations, solid $775.3 million. Earnings per share of $1.11, up 29% from 2012. And we have, during this year, introduced our new Ramform Titan-class vessels with great success. We reiterate our guidance for the year on EBITDA of $900 million to $950 million. And the Board will propose a dividend for 2013 of NOK 2.30 per share, which is up 39% from the dividend paid the year before.

Moving to slide number five; order book, end of year, $669 million. Since year-end and into February, we have continued to book more work without that impacting the guidance at all. 100% roughly booked now for Q1, 90% for Q2, 65% for Q3, and 20% for Q4 as of February 4, and we have received further Letters of Intent since then. So, we see now that the Q2, Q3 is rapidly booking up, and in particular, the capacity available for the North Sea.

Slide number six is a listing of what we have in achievements and in the plan for being done in the period January 1, 2008 to end of 2015, where the headlines are seven new vessels out of the 12 we would have operating end of 2015; significant upgrade and renewal of our 3D fleet; rollout of GeoStreamer technology; focus and growth of our MultiClient business; new and quite game-changing imaging technologies on the back of the GeoStreamer; further technology potential; lead position in health, safety and environment, and quality; and a substantial increase of financial robustness and initiation of dividend payments.

From 2016 and onwards, the new-build program is finished, as we see it now. The focus will be on profit, on free cash flow and return on capital employed. And we are, as you will see from the next slide, bringing in a fleet of four vessels that actually are very accretive to our return on capital employed under current market conditions. We will further leverage our unique position on GeoStreamer and our productivity differentiation.

We will continue to grow our MultiClient business with focus on return on invested capital. And we will continue to push for leadership in health, safety, environment; continue to reduce cost further; and also take out further gains from improved quality. Our maintenance CapEx in this area is roughly [ph] $150 million to $180 million (06:16) a year for the whole company. So, there is potential for a substantial free cash flow coming out of this business as we move into 2016.

Then moving rapidly to slide number nine, just to give you a quick illustration of what the Ramform Titan seems to deliver, and we have based the calculations of payback and internal rate of return pre-tax on the two quarters delivered and the pricing secured for the four quarters to come. So, basically the six first quarter of the life of the vessel. And if we assume that those contract conditions will remain through the vessel's life, the vessel will be paid back on less than five years and with an internal rate of return north of 20%. So, a very solid contribution to our ambition of improving our return on capital employed for the company.

With that, I'll hand over to Gottfred Langseth on the numbers.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 11 with the heading Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations Summary. Revenues for both the quarter and for full-year were flat compared to what we had in 2012. EBITDA, up 24% for the quarter and 7% for the full-year. Operating profit, excluding the impairment charges, up 34% for the quarter and 36% for the full-year.

We wrote down the source vessel, Polar Sea, with $15 million in the quarter, as announced already on our Capital Markets Day in December. So, the reported EBIT after impairment for fourth quarter ended up $66.4 million. Net financial items for the quarter was $21 million of cost. That's higher than what we've seen in the earlier quarters, and it includes an amount of write-down also on our associated companies. So, $5 million of non-recurring items.

Income tax expense, $14.7 million. That's a reported tax cost of 33%; that's higher than our underlying trend line, primarily due to technical matters relating to accounting for deferred taxes, which is explained on the next slide, but I will not go through here. The current and payable tax for the quarter amounts to only $3.3 million out of the reported $14.7 million tax expense. Net income for the quarter, $30 million.

I'll then move to slide number 13, Q4 2013 highlights. We had marine contract revenues of $121.7 million, sequentially lower, primarily as a result of how we [ph] use fleet (10:02) capacity, which was more MultiClient than contract in the quarter, but with a strong EBIT margin of 22%. Total MultiClient revenues, $193.5 million; best quarter for the year; 31% increase from fourth quarter 2012, and with a pre-funding of 85% of capitalized cash investment in the quarter. The pre-funding revenues were primarily driven by projects in South America, Africa and Asia Pacific, while the late sales were dominated by sales from our European library, South America and North America.

I will then move to slide number 17, group cost development. Our cost focus is delivering results. The $270 million of cash cost in the fourth quarter is at par with what we saw in the third quarter and also with what we saw in the fourth quarter the year before. So, we had a flat cost development despite the fact that Ramform Titan is now in full operation, which means that largely we have been able to balance so far the cost impact of capacity growth with the savings that we have seen from our profit improvement program.

I'll then move on to the next slide, slide number 18, cash flow summary. Cash from operating activities, $211 million in the quarter, $775 million for the year, both up from 2012 primarily as a result of the higher realized EBITDA. We came in a bit lower on our CapEx, $438 million for the year compared to $450 million to $470 million most recently guided. This change is primarily timing-related and has a corresponding impact on our expected 2014 CapEx.

On the next slide, slide number 19, balance sheet. We have a very strong balance sheet position. Our liquidity reserve at the end of the year was $763 million. Net debt at the end of year, $666 million, which gives a significant headroom to our threshold for debt under our policies. And equity ratio at December 31 at 58% of total assets.

So with that, I give the word back to Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Gottfred. Slide 22, bidding activity; we see an uptick now in what we call All Sales Leads. So now, we see the emergence of the work that might be relevant for second half and fourth quarter. Of course, early days to see how that's going to play out, at the same time as we see the short-term bidding coming down the last month, but clearly with a corresponding increase in backlog across the industry. Still a lot of large surveys in the pipeline that suits our vessels well.

Moving to slide 23, we've seen the proxy to demand, the number of square kilometers done, flattening out 2013 over 2012. On the other hand, given some stacking of capacity and the way we measure year-end available streamer capacity, we've actually seen a decrease of 3% in 2013 over 2012 measured in streamer capacity. One element to that is of course that Ramform Atlas is not delivered in December but in January. So therefore, we see a higher increase in 2014 over 2013 than we had before without that really changing substantially the overall market picture.

And then another 4% in 2015 on aggregate to end 2015. These numbers is actually 3% less streamers than earlier communicated in our view, as our view a quarter back. We don't know any capacity scheduled for 2016 and beyond, and we do expect further stacking to come out of all the vessels. We then move to slide number 27, guidance. EBITDA, still in the range of $900 million to $950 million. No change with the exception of a small adjustment on the CapEx, a carry-over from 2013, the guidance is the same. So in principle, the outlook for the market stays the same as it was at Capital Markets Day with only smaller variations.

And with that, I hand back to Tore Langballe.

Thank you, Jon Erik. And by that, we ask the operator to assist us on the Q&A session, please. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Christopher Møllerløkken. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Two questions, if I may. First of all, the contract revenues in fourth quarter were weak than we and the consensus expected. How would you describe the vessel production during fourth quarter?

I think it's been decent, Christopher. I guess the shortfall on revenues is probably more in the allocation of capacity than it is production, I think the vessels we've had in contract, even though not many have performed pretty well.

Thank you.

You had two questions, yeah.

Yeah. The second one is, given the news that CGG is answering the same area as you in U.S., the Gulf of Mexico now. If you do acquire the Full Triton MultiClient survey, when do you expect to complete the acquisition now given that there might be a risk for time-sharing here?

No, we still see the potential to do that this summer in the July timeframe as earlier. We have been operating not many days, but I would guess a couple of weeks now in the same area. We have had limited impact so far of this, and I trust that the two operating parties will be able to minimize whatever interferences that might come through here. And obviously, having completed more than one-third of the survey, there is no option to stop at the moment. We think we will and are confident we will deliver a high-quality product here that will sell well.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We are now taking our next question from Caroline Hickson. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon. I just had a question again on the weak contract in the fourth quarter. It looks – if I work out your implied pricing, it looks sort of significantly down year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. I'm just wondering how that plays out going through to next year when you've previously talked about pricing being flat, but it seems like that's now off a lower base.

Well, it's down pricing from the quarter before, but it's up from the quarter last year, the fourth quarter last year. So, it hasn't – the fourth quarter has not impacted our guidance in any significant way for 2014, which is still the same as we have said before. So, as a matter of fact, it might be on the weak [indiscernible] (19:39) expectations. I think when everybody has reported fourth quarter, it might come out as an exceptionally strong quarter relative to what's out there of work to be performed. But Caroline, I don't see any significant impact in how we have positioned 2014 on our EBITDA guidance before or after delivery of the fourth quarter.

Okay, thanks. And just – you have both flagged that the first quarter is going to be weak.

Yeah.

Is it – are the conditions worse than the fourth quarter or sort of the same?

It's probably weaker the first quarter and then, of course, the residual is then in second and third quarter and stronger relative to [ph] sort of how an (20:28) average line there.

Okay, thanks. And just finally, despite – when I calculate your pricing, it does look like it's down year-on-year, but your margins have held up fairly well. So is that...

Yeah.

Is that sort of good operating cost management and should we expect that going forward? Can you just talk a bit about the cost outlook, please?

Yeah. Operating costs are under good control. That is correct. And as Gottfred has – been through earlier today, if you look at the cost slide, you see that despite the fact that we've added Titan to the fleet, there is not a significant uptick in cost, which is a result of our cost improvement or profit improvement program that started in 2012 and that is still coming through with effects. And as a matter of fact, we are launching a new initiative now in 2014 to drive that further. So, there is a cost contribution in there, absolutely.

If I may add this, there is – it's important to be aware that between surveys, there are new huge variances if you count the cost intensity. And if operating a 3D vessel in an area where there's less incremental and excess costs for support vessels and crew changes and things like that, the top line number may well be lower without the pricing for the 3D capacity actually being lower. So, that's also a part of the explanation that you will see some deviations in the top line without having impact on the margin. We calculate these surveys to make the aspired bottom line and that focus on the top line itself.

Okay, thanks. That's all for me.

Thanks Caroline. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further questions for the moment.

Okay. If there are no further questions, we thank you all for participating and have a nice day. Thank you.

Thank you. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.