Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christyan F. Malek — Analyst, Nomura International Plc
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Amy Wong — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Gary W. Stromberg — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Andrew Milano — Analyst, CVC Credit Partners LLC
Eivind Tønnessen — Analyst, Swedbank AB (Norway)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's Fourth Quarter and Preliminary Full-Year 2014 Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, the Vice President of Corporate Communications in the company. With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, Chief Executive Officer; Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer; and Rune Olav Pedersen, General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Communications and Marketing. At today's call, management will make some short remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in PGS Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to the CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Good afternoon to those in Europe and eastwards, and good morning to U.S. and American residents. We have today – when going through our full-year and quarterly results for Q4 2014, main headlines are that the MultiClient sales in Q4 and for the full-year came in high compared to historical numbers, despite a very challenging market environment. This is obviously good for cash flow and for balance sheet strength, which is our highest priority at the moment.

In a market like this, everything is about winning cash, preserving cash, preserving a strong balance sheet, and of course, taking out cost, which I will come back to. We did, during last year, further strengthen our long-term financing, so we have no maturities now before 2018. We added another vessel to our fleet, the Ramform Atlas in Q1. We also beat our target 2014 cost reduction ambition, and the Board of Directors will propose to the shareholders a dividend of NOK 0.7 per share.

We will move straight to slide number six, where we display the order book. And no surprise, in a softer market, the order book is also softer. Part of the decline is the result of lower unit pricing. But still at the end of the year, order book sits at $410 million, of which $220 million is MultiClient pre-funding. And in this market, the value of pre-funding to contract revenues is getting more and more similar, so to speak, the two becomes less and less of a factor of having different views when it comes to cash flow coming in. Vessel booking, 80% Q1, 55% Q2, 30% Q3 and 20% for Q4.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth who will take us through some of the main financial slides. So, Gottfred?

Thank you. I will start on slide number eight, condensed consolidated statement of operations summary. The headline numbers for the quarter are revenues of $430 million, that's 20% up compared to Q4 2013; EBITDA of $211 million, 5% up. We had a breakeven EBIT excluding impairment charges. Including the impairment charges, the EBIT was negative $39.7 million. Loss before income tax expense was minus $58 million. Net income to equity holders, negative $85.5 million.

I'll then move to slide number nine, impairment charge and increased MultiClient amortization. We recorded in the quarter an impairment of $39.7 million, full-year $73.8 million. It relates to older and less productive vessels and equipment, and this was triggered by vessel retirement, stacking and a weaker near-term market outlook for pricing and utilization. We had a high MultiClient amortization in the quarter, 75%, bringing the full-year amortization to 57%.

In Q4, we had more Triton sales in the mix and we recorded significant additional non-sales related amortization. We make updated sales forecasts for all our seismic MultiClient surveys in the portfolio at the year-end with increased market uncertainty. We have taken a more cautious view of sales forecasts, amounts and timing, and the risk adjustment. This has resulted in an additional amortization of approximately 15 of the surveys in our portfolio.

I'll move then to slide number 11, operational highlights. We had marine contract revenues of $171.8 million and a breakeven EBIT margin in the quarter. There is a negative, approximately 5 percentage points, impact on this EBIT margin from standby time of vessels and expensed steaming cost over and above the normal level.

Moving to MultiClient, total revenues of $206 million. Late sales, record high $120 million. Pre-funding ended lower than our earlier indication due to timing of revenue recognition being delayed on one project. Still, the pre-funding level improved to 149% in the fourth quarter, bringing the full-year pre-funding level to 84% of capitalized cash investments in the library.

Moving to the next slide number 12, MultiClient revenues per region. The strong MultiClient sales performance in Q4 is well illustrated on the graph. Revenues are, as you can see from the graph, dominated by sales in North America and Europe. On the pre-funding side, revenues were highest in North America and Asia Pacific, while on the late sales side, we have strongest contribution from Europe and South America.

I'll then move to slide number 14, vessel utilization. The Q4 utilization was announced already over a month back, 78% active time. We expect lower utilization in the first quarter 2015 with stacked and standby time of approximately 15% to 20% of the total vessels time, including Ramform Explorer. Steaming is expected to account for approximately 10%, and the active time – productive time in the first quarter will be a split approximately 40/60 between MultiClient and Contract.

I'll then move to slide 15, Group cost focus delivers results. Costs are starting to come down, as earlier guided. There is a beneficial impact on cost in the quarter from retirement of Pacific and Nordic Explorer, which we did in September, and also reduced fuel and personnel cost. In the fourth quarter, the reducing trend is partially offset by higher OptoSeis activity, which have resulted in more both cost and revenues in the quarter, more steaming cost expensed and an increase of project variable costs and reimbursable expenses. Cost reduction programs have been expanded and are progressing in accordance with plan.

I'll then move to slide number 17, balance sheet position, key numbers. We have a strong balance sheet. We have a liquidity reserve at year-end of $454.7 million. In addition, we have $267 million of undrawn funding commitment for the new builds, which will cover the remaining yard payments on these new builds. The shareholders' equity corresponds to 54% of total assets.

I think, with that, I will hand the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you. We'll move to slide 20, a few words about the market. Needless to say, we have all observed the sharp oil price decline over the last six months that has led the client base to be very cautious on spending, and of course, impacts then the seismic bidding, pricing level and the utilization negatively.

In general, the picture is that there's relatively low visibility in all regions, even though there are still opportunities here and there and there is some volume to be covered. We believe there is a need for further capacity reduction to balance the market, and we also expect this market and prepare for this market to last at least through the end of 2015 and the coming winter.

Moving to the next slide, we see that the number of sales leads is relatively stable, while the bidding activity is low, and we have not seen a uptick that we normally see ahead of the North Sea season. As a matter of fact, since this is a graph showing the contract activity, we expect relatively low contract activity for streamer seismic in the North Sea this season. There are opportunities in the MultiClient space and we are pursuing those. There is pre-funding available also for those opportunities.

Moving to the next slide, we follow our graphs on square kilometers acquired and expected to be acquired and also streamer capacity available. We saw a decline last year of 11% of square kilometers acquired. We do see a continuous further decline this year over last year, given the current market outlook that we have. Early days in the year, a lot can happen, but at least that's what the current activity level indicates.

We know already from what has been announced that there is an average streamer capacity reduction in 2015 over 2014 of about 10%. And we believe, with the current activity level, that there should be another 15% cut-back of streamer capacity to balance the market. So, that means there is a market for about 400 streamers production, and we are currently above that with the total streamer pool available in the marketplace, which is why we have idle capacity across the fleets and also why prices are under pressure.

Moving to slide number 24, the main things we can do internally is, number one, obviously to preserve cash; number two is to drive down cost to stay competitive and improve relative competitive position. We had a successful cost reduction program in 2014 that took out approximately $90 million from the plan. The plan was obviously built on an increase in cost, reflecting two Ramform Titan-class vessels coming in for almost full capacity in the year.

Some of the actions taken in 2014 will have a full-year effect in 2015. In addition, we have launched a number of new activities in 2015, resulting in a cost base for 2015 that will come down approximately $190 million below what we saw on average in 2014. There is some offsets to that, mainly asset-light growth spending and also some schedule-driven smaller changes to the costs.

Main drivers for the cost reduction is vessel retirements, office closures, relocation, staff reduction and quite a high number of other initiatives. Obviously, in this market, we get help from fuel price, which is lower, and also a stronger U.S. dollar to, in particular, the kroner. That is, in a way, a natural hedge in the way we are set up as a player in this segment.

The next slide, slide 25, illustrates now the book values as of year-end. As per our program, the 2009 vintage is zero and should be zero. The book value of 2010 is minimal and so is 2011 and 2012 and 2013 relative to their vintages. So, the earlier years here are very, very healthy relative to future amortization. 2014 started to tick up, which is natural given that it's very new and recent data, and then Work-in-Progress, as always, will be higher.

Work-in-Progress will represent here an average of two years of data collected, and therefore, if you'd compare them to the numbers next door, you should half the numbers basically. All vintages are cash flow positive with the exception of the current Work-in-Progress, which obviously will be, as we spend time selling these data. We expect a full-year amortization rate for 2015 to be 55%.

Then, moving towards the end, slide 28. In a market like this, as I've said, it's all about having your balance sheet and your financing in order. We have a very robust balance sheet. We have no debt maturities before 2018. We are continuing to take out cost from the system. We have cost-efficient operations, driven by our leading fleet. We have improved productivity and we continue to improve productivity also in 2016 with the new vessels coming in there. We have an attractive MultiClient library and we, in addition, have some asset-light growth opportunities that will add to the business as they mature and move forward. We reiterate the guidance for 2015, as shown on slide 29.

And with that, I hand back to Bård Stenberg.

Thank you. That concludes management's remarks. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Hi, good afternoon, gentlemen. This is Christyan Malek calling from Nomura. In the outlook you have on supply and demand, the balance of supply that needs to be taken out, can you just be more specific about what your forecast is for demand or customer spend year-on-year in 2015? And as far as your outlook for pricing is concerned, would you be kind enough to provide a range of day rates that support the range of EBITDA that you provided, given the range is – given it's quite a large spread that you've given in your guidance for this year?

That might be too much of an ask. But on the demand side, we have tried to relate the streamer capacity to the square kilometers being visible that we think will be done this year in the global market, which is the two curves we have put together, because those are sort of price-neutral elements of supply and demand. Pricing is very dynamic at the moment. We have, on our part, given out few data points either on Capital Markets Day and correspondingly today saying that, what is in the order book for contract today has a margin in the – EBIT margin in the very low single-digits, in line with what we indicated at the Capital Markets Day as sort of a full-year indicator. But we are not prepared to go into sort of a range of day rates assuming this, because that's one data point of a few others that is needed to be understood to have a view on the EBITDA. More importantly on the EBITDA is the MultiClient pre-funding and the late sales. Obviously, they contribute more to that number than the variation in contract margin.

Sure. Just as a follow-up perhaps, your customers are all coming out with releases on their budgets for this year. So is it fair to say you've marked-to-market that forecast against the most recent budgets or do you need to have a sort of regroup once you've heard your customers walk through what they plan to spend this year in thinking about the kilometers spend, the columns that you're going to be shooting?

Well, I think our estimate of sort of a 400 streamer count being a valid point is based on what we see up until today in customer dialogue and it obviously includes the surveys that customers are planning to do this year. A good portion of that will obviously be driven by license commitments. So, there is a little bit of a driver behind that. But in this number, we have also included what we read as MultiClient plans that could get pre-funding. The number in square kilometers could end up being higher if there is more MultiClient. But I have no view on how much pre-funding it would be possible to collect for those surveys, if you like. So this is an estimate based on current best knowledge in terms of our indicator of how we read the market. And we are doing our actions when it comes to capacity in relation to this at the moment.

And then just one final question. In a scenario where the budgets are lower than you expect and demand for the MultiClient book is lower, can we expect potential future write-downs? Is that a sort of risk or are you comfortable with how you marked-to-market so far on the book?

No, it is possible. We make, in a way, our projections with respect to – the question was relating to carrying values of fixed assets and intangible assets, including the library and the balance sheet. Based on the information we have at this time, should circumstances change and impacting our projections, write-downs could happen. But we based this on cautiously of the market going forward, in line with what we also communicated on this earnings release.

Okay, thank you very much.

Our next question, please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from SpareBank 1 Markets. When you say that the streamer count is expected to come down by 10% this year, how do you measure that and is that assuming that further vessels will come out of the market which hasn't been announced yet?

No, this is basically based on average streamer count 2014 over 2015 and announcements that has been made that we are aware of. That's what's in the 10%.

Okay. You also said that, to balance the market, you would need to see further supply reduction of roughly 15%. But if you only take that activity will decline in the low-end of your guidance, meaning 15%, this year and assuming that every seismic vessel only shot 30 square kilometers per day and having a total off-hire of 18%, you would only need 42 vessels in that scenario, which is a supply reduction of more than 20%. And this is assuming low productivity per vessel, high off-hire and not so much decline in demand. Where does that 15% come from?

Well, this is our estimate based on the current market. And I think you have to factor in when you do these kind of exercises, without going into – following your calculation, that in the current market, the average player will have to steam more between jobs, because it's more challenging to line-up jobs in the same region. So, there are a number of factors we have tried to put in when we do this estimate. But I cannot here go into the details in that calculation to kind of compare it to an alternative calculation, if that's what you would invite me to do. That's something – we can probably do that offline with the IR here and see if we can compare notes on how you arrived to your number.

Is it fair to say that the length of this downturn will also be based upon how supportive some of the banks will be here for some of the more financially-distressed people?

Yeah. What I said this morning is that we think this year can be a year where the players' relative roles in the industry will be redefined. And the implication in that is that there is a factor of bank support in here as well in terms of how this will come out.

Thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Good afternoon. It's Amy Wong here calling from UBS. A quick question on your global supply and demand outlook, where you're expecting 15% to 20% decline in the square kilometers. So, that's a two-year decline right there. Presuming your clients are actually getting better bang for their buck, can you give us some insight into the conversations you have with them about – in terms of are they not shooting more kilometers or for a lower cost? What do you think is a catalyst other than perhaps – other than the oil price stabilizing that will incentivize your customers to actually increase the activity?

I think it's more their own internal cash flow situation, the priorities that drives that. Yes, there is probably some elasticity in terms of, if we get more bang for the buck, we will do a bit more. But that varies a lot from client to client, the way we see it today. And of course, where that opportunity exists, we play with them. And that's also why – there are uncertainties to these estimates. These are best estimates as we see it today to give a direction of the size of the gap and what we think is needed to balance it and how that is playing out. But it's hard to say, Amy, how the end result will be here.

A lot of clients are very conscious that they don't want to let go of exploration, as they have done earlier, and then lose three, four, five years. And we see quite a lot of development projects being [ph] pushed to the right (27:50) because they contribute much more to the cash flow. What the end game will be here in terms of who gets priority and for how long is hard to say. There is money out there. There is an activity level today that we see supports 400 streamers roughly. Could that come up to 450, 500? It could, obviously. But that data is what we have to see as we move forward quarter-on-quarter, what the appetite for activity and acquisition activity is.

Great, thank you very much.

Thank you. We will now take our next question. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. It's Gary Stromberg from Barclays.

Hi, Gary.

Just a clarification on your order book, and I think you talked about EBIT margins being in the low single-digits. Is that your expectation then for EBIT margins from marine contract in the first quarter and 2015?

It's not the expectation for the first quarter. We have indicated here a little bit on the utilization we expect in the first quarter that obviously will impact the EBIT margin negatively. We are, at the moment, more confident when it comes to utilization in the second and third quarter. And there is an element here that we have tried to illustrate when it comes to the fourth quarter that the contract margin for fourth quarter is basically breakeven. But if you were to adjust for idle time and some expensed steam that you have to do if you don't have a job follow-on afterwards, the margin for the ongoing work in the fourth quarter was roughly plus 5% in comparison.

And when you come to the first quarter, you will have to be very precise on, are we talking about the margin under work that is actually being done or the margin diluted by the idle time in the first quarter. We have indicated at the Capital Markets Day that, as we see it today, the margin will be sort of in the low single-digits for the year and we also said the work we have booked contract-wise is in the low single-digit for the full-year. And those sort of are the data points we have been issuing in addition to then indicating that first quarter is then likely worse off than the rest of the year in terms of utilization. And the driver for utilization is obviously, despite the fact that there's less contract work in the North Sea, we do see MultiClient opportunities both in Canada and in the North Sea for the coming season.

Okay, that's really helpful. Thank you. And then second question is on the remaining yard payments for the new builds. It looks like it's just under $400 million. When will you take delivery of the two vessels? And is there any flexibility to delay those deliveries or are those firm?

Q1 and Q3 2016, and with the revised agreements, there's still not a lot of flexibility.

Did you say there is a lot of flexibility?

Not a lot of flexibility.

I see. Okay.

I think the flexibility, Gary, is probably more on the CapEx side, to the extent that if the market remains very weak, we might take out some of the – two of the weaker boats and use the streamer pool for equipping the newer vessels and have some CapEx flexibility, if you like, for 2016.

I see. Okay, thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Hi, thanks for taking the question. It's Andrew Milano from CVC. Can you talk about any related costs that you might incur to generate the $190 million of costs saves, any severance or anything like that?

There will be some, of course, very moderate compared to the cost savings. We've taken a lot of steps during 2014, closing down offices and similar – and we just report that as part of our operating cost development. It should be taken – any single decision at a point of time where the liabilities relating to [ph] such actions (32:37) would be a bit material, we would accrue for it at that stage and disclose it. But it is moderate and we have chosen not to focus on it or – nor separate it out as a separate line item in our financial reporting.

Okay. And switching gears, on the MultiClient side, can you talk a little bit about sort of the geographic regions where you're seeing survey demand sort of what – any major surveys that are planned for 2015? And I think previously you mentioned new acreage auctions, lease auctions in like Mexico and Brazil potentially, if you expect to continue to see demand generation from those? Thanks.

Yeah. In 2015 – we had a slide covering this in the Capital Markets Day that I can refer to, to go back. But in 2015, our pre-funded activities will be related to Australia, to Brazil, to West Africa and to the North Sea. Those will be the main – and potentially also Canada. Those will be the main drivers for the pre-funded activities. And since some of that is already reflected in the backlog, as you can see from the reporting, we – that's probably the area we currently have the highest confidence relative to the full-year contribution to the guidance. And then the late sales is, on the other hand, as usual, the area where we have the lowest visibility and where we follow quarter-by-quarter what we can deliver on.

So, in Brazil, it's western companies, our IOCs needing data on the back of the 11th License Round still going on. And in the North Sea, it's continuation of the several year GeoStreamer programs we have had that we just keep building on and delivers very nice returns over time. In addition to that, we have ambitions to do work in Mexico. But for the time being, the current plan we have is to move in, in the first phase, with a couple of 2D vessels, and we are sitting ready to do that with a boat in Bahamas and one in Texas just waiting for the final tick of the permitting. So, those are the activity areas we are focusing on.

Great, thank you.

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, this is [ph] Jay Hirshberg with American Capital (35:26). You mentioned that $150 million spend on new builds. Is that expected to be fully financed, that $150 million, under a draw from the export facility?

Yeah. We have – out of our remaining CapEx for the new builds, which is close $400 million, as mentioned on an earlier question, $267 million is to be covered by committed and yet undrawn financing. So, all of the remaining yard installments will be covered from this financing, while the seismic equipment will be paid over our own book, from our own liquidity resources. Out of the $150 million CapEx, which is expected for this year of the total, majority of that is relating to the seismic equipment and will be paid from our liquidity resources, and a smaller part is yard payments, which will – that were maybe covered – maybe drawn on the financing facilities.

Okay. And then, in terms of your taxes, how could I think about your effective tax rate for 2015?

It's difficult in a way. Over a period – for example, since 2008 and up to now, our sort of reported tax rate will be some 24.4% or something like that of pre-tax profit. And we've said that, over time and in an average market, we expect a reported tax rate of 25% or below. 2015 will be a year with low earnings. So, the percentages doesn't add up very easily, because some of our taxation is to only a limited degree based on profitability. There are withholding taxes in different countries. There are revenue-based taxes or taxes based on deemed profits and similar.

So, in modeling this, I would lean towards looking at the current tax expense, which will vary a little bit based on which countries we operate in. But over the last three years, it varied between a bit of $20 million and around $40 million, which we had in 2014, which is – I think is likely to be where we end in 2015 as well. But it is very project dependent in a way, how we incur cash taxes. When we operate in Norway, for example, no tax [ph] operating (38:29). Some other countries, the tax could be a quite significant portion of the total cost, which we obviously build into our modeling when we evaluate on how to bid for projects. So, I hope that was at least a little bit helpful.

Yeah, that was helpful. And one final question, are you – how do you foresee your covenant headroom on your revolver going throughout the next year?

Well, [ph] with our (39:03) projections and with the guidance that we have applied will be – we illustrated that in our Capital Markets Day presentation. We expect to be – it would be inside our financial covenants, which on a maintenance basis relates to the revolving credit facility only, a leverage ratio of 2.75, to be well inside that.

Okay. Well, thank you so much.

We now have another question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Hi, it's Amy again with a quick follow-up question. I just want to quickly go through the amortization of the MultiClient library. Is there any difference between what you're saying here, this accelerated amortization, and essentially what would be more like an impairment on your MultiClient library, please?

The simple answer is probably, no, there's not a lot of difference. We have, in a way, there's three things causing amortization in our books. It is the planned amortization relating to our sales, which is the primary amortization that we do. We calculate the ratio of future sales to book value or book value and cost to complete and get a ratio which we apply to all the sales that we do. Then we have the so-called backstop or minimum amortization which says the surveys shall have – each survey shall have a book value of zero at the end of the year after completion.

So, any survey that at any point of time comes over a linear reduction to zero over five years would be – the excess will be amortized. And then lastly, you have the – what in a way impairments, as you allude to, which is when we – as we regularly do and for all surveys do at the year-end, for some surveys more often, we review our sales forecast, we look at the risks, we look at the market circumstance, we look at the local risks and [ph] profitability (41:10) changes and similar, update the sales forecasts, discount that with the risk-adjusted discount rate.

And if the net present value is lower than the book value, we record the difference as amortization. We present it in the books as amortization if it is – in a way, relates to multiple surveys. We have this every year, and there's not a practice of reporting all of this as impairments in the financial statements. You will see this described more correctly probably in the accounting principle discussions in our financial statements. So, there's not a lot of difference between an impairment and additional amortization.

All right. Great, thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yes. Good afternoon. Just a follow-up question from Christopher in SB 1. Regarding CapEx on new builds, is it better to track it using the numbers provided in the table or is it in the text, because there is consistent gaps there between, when you track CapEx in the table, you get another number versus accumulated CapEx in the text? Is it capitalized interest, which is giving the gap or...

Christopher, I need to check that. Maybe I should have known it. It may be – in some tables, we...

It seems to be $10 million in Q4, for example.

Yeah. It can be timing, because in some tables, we record the actual cash payments on CapEx or everything that is cash flow related disclosures, it's the actual payments, whereas in our balance sheet and constructions in progress, we record what is, in a way, delivered on an accrual basis.

Right.

It could also be the capitalized interest, but I need to check it actually.

Okay. And second question, could you update us on the status of Shigen, what is she doing and what is her rough EBITDA contribution currently? I expect [ph] that to be quite well (43:29).

The last element, we don't disclose. But Shigen is the former Ramform Victory, as some of you remember, that was sold to the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and she is operating in Japanese waters. We have a role of training crew, training imaging people transferring responsibility. So, of course, over time, there is a diminishing contribution from Shigen. They have taken over all the maritime crew. They are increasingly taking over the seismic crew, and they are moving into the imaging space. So, from our end, the government's point of view, this is a great success. But it is over the years become a smaller and smaller part of our total contribution obviously, because the contribution relates to what kind of contributions we offer the project.

And when does the current contract expire?

It is a 10-year contract initially, so we're talking about...

2017.

2017, yeah.

2017, yeah.

Yeah.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you. We will now take our next question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hello, it's Eivind Tønnessen, Swedbank. Can you indicate how much of your MultiClient cash investments for the year has been allocated so far or committed so far of the $275 million to $300 million you're guiding for the year?

We don't have the exact number, but that's close to two-thirds. We think it's a good estimate.

Two-thirds, okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further questions at this time.

Okay, that concludes the conference call. Thank you all for participating. And if you have any follow-up questions, I am available to answer those, and you have my contact details in the press release and also on the web page. So, thank you all for participating and have a nice day.

Thank you. That does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.