Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Morten Nystrøm — Analyst, Fearnley Fonds ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Pål Holdø Dahl — Analyst, Swedbank AB (Norge)
Thomas Ørner — Analyst, RS Platou Markets AS
Geoffroy Stern — Analyst, Crédit Agricole Cheuvreux SA
Tom H. Ackermans — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Ryan W. Kauppila — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
James A. Thompson — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. Good morning. Welcome of the presentation of the Second Quarter Results for PGS. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in the Group. This presentation is being broadcast, and we run a dial-in conference call in parallel.

Participants in the webcast and conference call are invited to ask questions in the Q&A session, but you can already now register your questions. There will also be a separate conference call later in the afternoon 3:00 p.m. European Time, or 9:00 a.m. Eastern.

Before we start, I'd like to give some practical information. No fire drills are planned. Emergency exits, two at the front here. Evacuate if the alarm sounds. For those of you present here in the audience, when posing questions, please state your name and your company. I'd also like to draw your attention to the cautionary statements showing on your screen right now. Please study that carefully.

The presentation today will be given by CEO, Jon Erik Reinhardsen, and CFO, Gottfred Langseth. So by that, Jon Erik, the floor is yours.

Thank you, Tore, and good morning. And appreciate people showing up or listening in on – in middle of the vacation time. We are pleased to be able to present strong numbers for the quarter. Once again, we have a strong MultiClient quarter, the best MultiClient quarter we've ever had. Clearly, the last quarters including this one, as a result of a change in strategy and organization we did two years ago, with more focus on MultiClient as a standalone business driving opportunities, and now continuing to deliver better and better results.

Also, this quarter we have seen a lot of benefits from the GeoStreamer technology both in contract and MultiClient. So we'll touch on that briefly in some of the slides later. Again, a result of a strategy that was formed five years ago when we launched GeoStreamer, and is bringing more and more business and fruit to our business.

The numbers have already been released, of course; $404.8 million in revenues, US$246.2 million in EBITDA, $86.6 million in EBIT, and a Group EBIT margin of 21%, and again with record MultiClient revenues of $236 million.

Also, this quarter, at the EAGE, we launched the SWIM, the separated wavefield imaging, which is another step-change in the GeoStreamer technology, GeoStreamer Enhanced Imaging. And I have a couple of slides showing you a little bit more what we expect to get out of that. Of course, also importantly, in general, the marine seismic market continues to strengthen. And our outlook for the year now points towards an EBITDA in the range of $750 million to $800 million.

The numbers speak for themselves. Over the last quarters, we've had a steady increase in revenues, and now it pops up as also good outcome on the bottom line, EBITDA and EBIT. And also, cash flow ticks up, but we expect that to tick up even further, as we have built some working capital towards the end of the quarter.

Backlog continues to grow. As end of the quarter stands at $689 million. We have now booked approximately 90% of the 3D capacity for Q4 at Q3 pricing, and that's really towards end of July as we stand today, as a bit more has come in in July and continues to come in. We have a pretty strong inflow of orders now in July as we monitor it. Very good prospect pipeline, and in particular in the GeoStreamer space, which seems to accelerate more rapidly than we have capacity to provide. So, overall, the balance here in terms of supply/demand continues to improve, and I'll come back a little bit more to that also later.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to go through the numbers before we go back a bit more to market stuff later.

Good morning. I will, as usual, start with the consolidated statement of operations. Revenues in second quarter up 24% to $404 million, EBITDA up 50% compared to Q2 last year to $246.2 million, and operating profit 77% increase to $86.6 million.

Net financial items, or net financial cost, came in relatively high in the quarter, $21.1 million. The amount includes foreign currency loss of $6.7 million, primarily related to the depreciation of the Brazilian real, and also a write-down of our investment in Geokinetics of $3.3 million. Income tax expense of $19.5 million corresponds to 30% of pre-tax profit, which leaves a net income of $45.9 million and $0.21 per share.

MultiClient's revenues were record high in the second quarter, totaling $236 million. Pre-funding revenues were $150.2 million or 183% of MultiClient cash investments. We achieved a Marine Contract EBIT margin of 20% already in the second quarter. This is earlier than we have expected, driven by a strong operating performance and a favorable cost level in the quarter. For Q3, we expect higher pricing but also quarterly higher costs, leading to a similar margin.

We had lower contract revenues in second quarter 2012 primarily due to less capacity used for contract acquisition. We also had a record revenue level from data processing, $31.7 million of external revenues compared to $25.5 million second quarter last year.

Then to MultiClient revenues per region, the strong pre-funding is primarily driven by projects in Angola and Europe in the quarter. Late sales strongest in North America followed by Europe and Middle East.

We now expect that the full year cash investment in MultiClient will end between $260 million and $300 million. This is down from $300 million to $325 million that we have earlier stated. One prime reason for this is GeoStreamer productivity, which is reducing the cost of acquiring the planned programs for the year. Full year 2012, we now expect the pre-funding level to be 150% of our MultiClient cash investment, so also that's an increase compared to what we expressed earlier.

On vessel utilization, this was already released some weeks back. Key elements for the quarter are high utilization and more MultiClient activity with the vessels than contract.

Then to the key operational numbers; I have already commented on the various revenue lines, and I won't repeat that. Operating costs are quite significantly down in second quarter due to primarily more cost capitalized to the MultiClient library, but also due to relatively low cost levels. Depreciation, for the same reason, also down in the quarter, primarily since more depreciation is capitalized as part of MultiClient investment.

MultiClient amortization in the quarter was $129.3 million, which corresponds to 55% of MultiClient revenues. For the full year, we still expect an approximate 50% amortization rate.

CapEx Q2, $84 million. Approximately $50 million out of those $84 million relates to our new builds in Japan. Cash investment in MultiClient, $82 million, that's up from previous quarters as a result, obviously, of the higher MultiClient acquisition activity.

This next slide shows the development of our total cash costs, the sum of the amount of expensed and the amount capitalized to the library. There is a sequential decrease of costs, primarily due to less activity in high-cost regions compared to first quarter, and net deferral of steaming cost in the second quarter compared to a net expensing of steaming cost in the first; Q1 having, as some of you will remember, significant cost relating to loss and – or equipment loss and repair; capitalization of yard stay cost for Vanguard in second quarter; and lastly, some positive cost variances in the second quarter.

Within the specific captions on the marine costs, there is an increase which relates primarily to higher activity level on OptoSeis. Our profit improvement program, earlier announced, will deliver $50 million run rate improvement of EBIT by end of 2012. It is on track. By end second quarter approximately $30 million of annual run rate improvements have been implemented. Should mention – or repeat that not all of these are cost related. There are also revenue enhancements included in the $50 million.

Cash flows; strong cash flow from operations, $176 million, driven by improved earnings. That said, we have a relatively significant increase in working capital in second quarter, which relates to high revenue level in June particularly. Cash used for financing activities totaling $67 million in the quarter, includes dividend payments of $41.5 million, as well as payments for purchase of treasury stock of $6.1 million.

We have a solid balance sheet position. No radical changes compared to what we showed for the last quarter. It's – I think it's noteworthy though that the net book value of the MultiClient library is at low levels, $318.8 million, even down compared to last quarter despite relatively significant investments in the quarter. Liquidity reserve at $448 million, and net debt at $441.9 million.

With that, I completed my part and will hand the podium back to Jon Erik.

Thank you. We start, as usual, with the world map and the location of the vessels. Two 2D vessels in the North Atlantic, four 3D vessels, all of them GeoStreamer-equipped. As a matter of fact, there's nothing much left of the fleet without GeoStreamer, so we're more moving in that direction.

Activity curve shows good step-up, easy to be excited about that, good rebound in both curves. Drivers for that, clearly a better market, an element of higher prices embedded. This is a curve in dollar. Also an element of longer timeframe that is covered, because oil companies are now coming out earlier with bids to secure capacity, which, of course, is a good sign, but it does drive the curves up a little bit relative to covering now longer time period than it used to do. But, of course, for the industry, it impacts the visibility positively, the ability to plan and position vessels in an optimal way, and will definitely over time, I think, drive down steaming somewhat and drive results positively for the whole industry.

Good bid opportunities in all regions, and we continue to see this trend that we talked about also quarter, about broadband becoming more and more of a requested service as part of the total mix. And in particular, maybe I should mention that it's good to see that the active tender curve is coming up. So it's not only prospects and talks, but it's real tenders for real work out there.

The global map, not many changes. It seems like Uruguay is moving forward a bit faster than we anticipated last quarter, which is, again, good, and also a lot of larger surveys in the South Africa area that is coming to fruition faster than we saw earlier.

This curve is pretty much the same as earlier. The demand is continuing to grow when we are coming tighter and tighter on a, call it, supply-constrained activity curve or demand curve, so – which is again what will help drive the pricing. We don't see any significant changes in streamer growth. And here, we have included then the latest announcement from WesternGeco for 2014 as well.

We continue to believe in the larger vessels and building larger vessels than typically the industry has been doing. We still see that as the right move, given where we see the market is moving now. And fortunately, we now have two new builds coming next year, which will perfectly position for the growth in demand, and in particular growth in GeoStreamer demand that we now see coming along.

Just one slide to speak to, to the sizeable vessels and what they can do. We have now completed close to four-year high-density 4D program with Petrobras, the largest, I say high D 4D, high density 4D spread, but it's really the largest spread ever towed with 113.4 kilometers of streamers in the water. That's probably up 50%, 60% of what is common high-end in the industry today, just to give you a perspective of that. So this is what we call ultra high-end.

We have had the longest continuous deployment time of a high density 4D spread in the water for nine-and-a-half months continuously. And taking into account the effect of barnacles and stuff you have in those waters, that's quite impressive on its own. And, of course, the largest HD4D program ever acquired. And the sail distance for this has been about 3.3 times around the world at equator under one program. So quite an impressive achievement that has been delivered successfully due to a very competent and committed crew and excellent vessel, the Ramform Sovereign, and great support onshore.

So one slide on the MultiClient side. We see the share of MultiClient as part of the total market increasing. In fact, this year the MultiClient will be representing the growth in the overall market and not the contract, which is quite interesting. Clearly, there are surveys that sit in the borderline here, for instance, what's going on in Angola, our licensed area. But the fact that it's captured as MultiClient with late sales opportunities and not out for biddable captured in a different fashion raises a lot of opportunities.

We think an increased share of MultiClient raises the barriers to entry for the industry. And for us, from a PGS perspective, we see this as a very positive development. In fact, a development we have been part of facilitating with our North Sea programs and Angola program. We see that it delivers higher profitability and less volatility through the cycles. But it does require more capital discipline, and hence, for us, our strong focus on robust pre-funding and conservative amortization. We don't want to see history being repeated in terms of betting your balance sheet on activities just to create artificial numbers. Cash flow is an important monitoring parameter here.

But we also see through this MultiClient that we can optimize our differentiation by using our leading-edge technology in a better way, getting the full value out of it in the survey, and capitalizing and selling on that on the data we then own. And as we have talked about earlier, it will enable us to deliver returns in combination with the profit improvement program above cost of capital through the cycle, and we already now see that this year we will likely reach cost of capital already which is over and above what we thought when we started the year.

And our recent quarters demonstrate clearly the cash and profit benefits of that increase in the mix, despite the fact that we've been able to drive down the net book value of the MultiClient library, which is quite unique and should speak to even further potential for this business going forward.

The other fabulous thing is that when we have a better portfolio and a better focus on the MultiClient business, we see now that it does drive more selective and more profitable contract business, because we are able to pick and choose more the optimum opportunities for our fleet in the contract world where they really want to pay premiums for the GeoStreamer technology.

This slide we talked about the last time the way the broadband and GeoStreamer for us interest is growing, how it's put a significant change to the industry, the most important change in the – since the introduction of 3D. Clearly, there is no other of these new technologies that's ever reached more than the 10% mark-to-market share, and here we're already passing 25%, clearly initiated by the GeoStreamer in 2007 in 2D and in 2009 in 3D. So we are very proud to have set the stage for that development in the industry.

Then a couple of slides on the SWIM, which is short for Separated Wavefield Imaging, which is an enhanced GeoStreamer imaging. When we do conventional data processing, we focus on primaries, which leads to a limited illumination of the subsurface. And we use a number of shot receiver points to get the coverage we normally get with the GeoStreamers. And since we can separate up and down going wavefields, we allow for illumination with the multiples. And that expands the coverage each shot point and receiver point gets into subsurface, both in the in-line direction and in the cross-line direction. So we get a much, much wider illumination for each shot.

And this brings a number of benefits, and is, in fact, quite a step change as we move forward. First of all, for the customers, we get even sharper definition of the subsurface, improved images. And that's sort of the ultimate goal for any geophysical technique these days. But also, since we're able now to fill in between the streamers with more data in the cross-line direction through the multiple illumination, we can actually now do shallower targets with even wider streamer spreads, which have geophysically not been possible and is not possible with a conventional wave, because you get gap in your coverage. So that leads to higher productivity.

Also since the coverage is wider, conventionally the coverage in a spread width is, on the subsurface, half the spread width, because the signal goes from the center of the spread out to the edge of the spread. But using multiples we're actually able to expand the subsurface coverage to almost the full spread width. So we can come much closer to obstacles in the subsea – subsurface coverage, and therefore, have less undershooting required, which again is a productivity factor.

And, of course, we decreased the need for infill shoot, which is a productivity factor again in the industry. We also can reduce the overlap between the vessel passes and leads to higher productivity. And not the least, we can increase the resolution with the same number of streamers, which may sound familiar to you with other technologies launched recently, and it has a similar effect here in terms of you can actually get much more energy bounces in the subsurface using the multiples, and therefore, much more data coverage in between the streamers.

And the illustration below is a streamer spread towed along after the vessel. It floats a bit due to currency, and the upper one is what you get of subsurface coverage using primaries only, and the lower one is what we get of subsurface coverage using GeoStreamer SWIM processing. And that illustrates sort of the productivity factor, the factor that you can come closer to obstacles with your subsurface. We can actually reprocess all our existing GeoStreamer data with SWIM. That will, of course, not give us the productivity benefits, because that's acquisition done, but it will give us the data quality benefits and the coverage benefits. And we are about to do this on some surveys to demonstrate the uplift. This data here is from one of our MultiClient surveys actually.

So to the outlook. The oil companies are increasingly proactive in securing capacity, and the market momentum going into 2013 looks good. We believe, in a couple of weeks, we may be touching the 50% coverage in Q1 already, given the momentum we now see coming our way, and it's very much market, and in particular GeoStreamer, driven. All regions with high bidding activity, and good visibility and pricing coming out of that, obviously. There are still several large and attractive MultiClient projects and contract jobs in the pipeline. And the GeoStreamer demand is stronger than ever, so it's really great to have two new vessels next year that will come as an offering to the market, and we are very comfortable that they will be taken up pretty rapidly.

Backlog is good, but even more important, good visibility is emerging into 2013, and still maintaining a good pricing level as, needless to say, with this kind of demand, we are pushing pricing and trying to test even higher levels as we move forward.

So the main uncertainty we see now is really the macro and on two dimensions. The financial turmoil is, of course, a challenge to any business. We are not worried in particular for our situation, given the financing strengths we have, but the global market is uncertain in that dimension. And, of course, should it lead to higher oil price, that could also impact demand side of our business over time, not so much in a short timeframe. We didn't see any impact of the short decline in oil price we've had. But if it were to go further down and further out in time, of course, we will expect that to impact the business.

But the isolated view of the business we have is really strong, which is why we have increased our guidance, with EBITDA in the range of $750 million up to $800 million; MultiClient cash investments really coming down. It's kind of many – it's a bit odd, because some of the analysts' view of MultiClient is, the more you invest, the more you deliver. But we actually delivered the same with lower investment, which, in a normal economical sense, would make even more sense. And, of course, the efficiency we get out of that also drives the pre-funding level partly up, but also partly by more sales. Capital expenditure is what we have said before, the same range.

So in conclusion, excellent performance in all units, driven by strong operations. Productivity and scale remains important for us, both in terms of the vessels and the scale of the library. And as you have seen, a very healthy revenue-to-book ratio emerging out of our MultiClient business. We continue to grow and push our data processing capabilities and our technologies. Technology differentiation is becoming increasingly important, we believe. We continue to proactively manage our financial position, and we are competitively positioned to perform through the cycle.

And with that, I hand to over to Torre Langballe to manage questions and discussion.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Then we open up for questions from the audience from the Web and from the conference call. Starting with a couple of questions from the audience here. Morten first, and then Christopher.

Yes, it's Morten Nystrøm from Fearnley Fonds. First, a question to your guidance. In the first six months you have basically reached $400 million in EBITDA and your guidance is $750 million to $800 million. Given your comments earlier that you expect the second half of 2012 to be relatively much better than the first half of 2012, could you elaborate why you are – it appears that you are somewhat conservative on the full year EBITDA. Is it a function the uncertainty in late sales, or how should we think of it? Thanks.

The improvement comment is a Marine Contract related comment better second half. The pre-funding revenues will likely be lower in the second half then the first half, given that we come to an end with the big Angola program; very first vessel is coming off end of Q3. In fact, it looks like we will be able to save of the 20 months campaign probably two months due to efficiency factors. So there will be less pre-funding revenues coming out of the business in the second half.

But, of course, there is uncertainty and upside in the late sales space that we will have to see how that matures as we come further into the third quarter. Late sales is, obviously, the area with less visibility and, of course, it's of interest to us that we have a Western Gulf license round coming up now that's been announced, where we have good coverage with our Crystal III survey. So that's a positive in the overall picture.

Just a follow-up on the pre-funding level. I think that if you do the calculation, you arrive at 198% pre-funding for the first six months. And also it appears, given in your guidance on MultiClient, that you have reached, give and take, 50% of your expected investment level, which means that in order for you to arrive at roughly 150%, we're looking at 100% pre-funding, give and take, for the second half of 2012. Is that the correct way to look at it?

It is.

Yeah, I don't think that's far off. I mean, it weighs a bit, yeah. So – because we have done more North Sea MultiClient in the second quarter than we will do in the third quarter, so that sort of weighs a bit on the pre-funding because we have had – despite marginal weather, we've had quite good productivity in the North Sea with the GeoStreamer, which has driven up the pre-funding in the MultiClient space in Q2.

And my last question is the EBIT contract margin. Where are we going – or what should we expect going forward now? We're seeing rapid increase in active tenders, in sales leads. We have seen that you've been able to push up the EBIT contract margin to 20% in this quarter. You have stated that that was – also included some positive effects on costs. But you're saying that you're starting to see a booking of 50% in the first quarter of 2013, after that we're entering into the North Sea season. We all remember what happened last time. Are you seeing somewhat the same signals or is it too early? Thanks

I would say – I mean, you comment on some important things, and it's disclosed in the release. There are some call it one-offish effects in Q2 on the margin. So maybe the run rate is probably more like 14%, 15% EBIT margin, but that will then continue to move up. We've also included an indication of an annual margin of 15% to 20%. We used – in the previous quarter was 10% to 15%. So there is an embedded improvement, of course, partly driven by the strong Q2. But needless to say, with the demand and the booking we have experienced now in July, we are pushing prices further up with the gear we have, and in particular the GeoStreamer gear, so – which is interesting, obviously, for the North Sea season coming up, where we have indications that quite a few bid requests will come out now over the next few weeks, which again is earlier than we saw it last year.

So there's clearly a positive good reaction to a tighter market from the client base in terms of being more proactive to secure capacity. But it's not only the North Sea. In fact, the way we have experienced it now, it's more the other markets that's been quicker to book capacity for Q2 and Q3 next year than the North Sea, if you like. So it's really a global effect that's playing out now.

For Q4 in particular, we sort of took earlier view that if we can book Q3 prices into Q4, we'll take it, and we have really filled up on that quite nicely. We believe the balance for Q4 – earlier we have said we're not sure how that will play out. When we now look at the work that is planned to be done globally versus the capacity that is available, it seems to be awash roughly. There seems to be probably exactly sufficient capacity to do the work that is planned for Q4, nothing more, nothing less.

So the fear of a plunge downwards in rates is clearly gone. On the other hand, is it possible to push it further up? Not sure, remains to be seen for those who have capacity left. But it seems to be fairly balanced. Now, some more work may come in Q4, but also some more work may sit out due to permitting or – which normally happens. So I think it's fair to assume that the market in Q4 will be fairly balanced, which, of course, would speak to a tighter market when it comes to Q3 next year and on – Q2 next year and onwards when the North Sea market come to play again. That's how we see it.

Okay. So next Christopher.

Yes, Christopher from SpareBank 1 Markets. Could you say what the pricing looks like for the capacity you have booked for Q1 next year? Is it at level with Q4?

Yeah, it's roughly the same. And a couple of exceptions, possibly a little bit higher than that even, but it's in that ballpark.

There is also seems to be some contracts for the North Sea seasons that have already been awarded. Could you say anything regarding pricing level of those contracts?

For us, that's too early to comment on. I think when we come to the next quarter, given that – or provided these bids come through now that we have received indication on that, will be much better data point to kind of comment on that.

One of your competitors recently announced their Q2 results. And at the conference call they said, they have booked 50% of the Q4 capacity. So you seem to be a little bit ahead of them on Q4 booking. Would you now like to wait a bit for – to try to push prices even further, or would you continue with the Q3 pricing policy, so to speak?

No, I mean, we are continuing now to revise our prices upwards, no doubt about that. And given what we've seen and given the orders we've received during – you come to a point now where you don't want to be particularly long in the backlog, especially when it comes to Q2 next year. And you don't want to be short either, because you would like to have a planning horizon that optimizes your vessel moves. It's that tradeoff that you always have to watch.

Thank you.

Okay. Then we have a question from the web first before you poll. It's Jo Henrik Eriksen from Danske Bank. Actually it's three questions. One, are you prepared to give an indication on capacity allocation between MultiClient and Contract for next year? Second question is, do you have an update on the progress of securing funds from the Japanese credit export agency? And his third question is, do you expect a significant impact on contract demand from Norway's 22nd licensing round next year, and what activity level do you expect in the North Sea over summer?

The first is easy. We are not prepared to give any indication of vessel allocation for next year. That's too early. That's typically Capital Markets Day for us. License rounds in the North Sea are always positive, and it kind of adds to the general positive sentiment that we're into now and we see. When it comes to financing, Gottfred, maybe you should give the update there.

Yeah. Good progress. Hope to be able to complete in a month's time.

Okay. The next, Pål Dahl.

Yes. In light of the current market outlook, when you take the delivery of the two W-class vessels, do you expect to retire some of your existing vessels, or how is the strategy?

Titan Class is the name, but fine. Sooner or later, Pacific will have to be retired due to age. So it's more a matter of, if the market is good enough to keep her busy, generate good cash flow, we will do it. Obviously, that would drag down somewhat the average contract margin in percent, but it will generate cash and be positive on the profit in hard dollars. So it makes sense to continue to do it. And so far in second quarter, and likely in third quarter, she will deliver a fine profit.

But part of that may be driven by the fact that all the vessels have gone to North Atlantic. So she's kind of alone where she is today and can pick up good opportunities in the Atlantic – in the Mediterranean Basin. So we have to monitor that from quarter-to-quarter whether and how long we keep her going.

And just another question. If you could elaborate a little on what's the outlook for the recovering regions? We had both Mediterranean, India, Gulf of Mexico, were depressed, and now they're starting to come back. And also, could you give some more flavor on the new frontiers in other South America and then the East Africa, what you're seeing there?

India is out with a huge number of square kilometers for bid. So it remains to be seen what's going to be awarded and what's going to be executed for this winter, but that's coming back very strong, at least on the bid stage.

Gulf of Mexico has not really – there are two more vessels from CGV in there now, as you have seen from the announcement. So it's coming back towards normal, I would say. Brazil is still not, sort of, overly active, more stable I would say, as has been in wake of this license – next license rounds, particularly the first one to come down. But the new areas that is coming with strength now is, of course, the 30,000 squares in Uruguay, where there are bid requests out for that work. So that will probably be awarded in the next few months, and will be workload going probably a few of these operators in parallel through the winter of this year. So that's part of that demand that has helped raise the balance in Q4 and Q1. Also, a couple of significant surveys in South Africa. Also in the Suriname area, that region in a way, Suriname, French Guiana, Guyana, Trinidad, there are a few larger surveys. So those are kind of popping up.

Mediterranean, when it comes to Libya, Egypt, it's still not as it was in the brighter years. But there was some exceptional activity there early on, 2008 and 2009, due to big natural gas programs, stuff like that. So it's not necessarily given that they come back with the same strength, anyway. But clearly, there is a still slowdown on the back of the Arab Spring in those markets still, I would say. And also, Nigeria is not particularly active as a market here, because there's been a lot of reform going on relative to legislation and petroleum law and stuff like that that probably has postponed the bid activity here and there in that market. So there's still potential in some of the historically stronger markets, like Brazil, Nigeria, Egypt, Libya, for instance, for more should that come to bear.

Thomas Ørner from Platou Markets. Two questions, please. I might have missed it, but could you just comment on your start-up in the Gulf of Mexico and wide-azimuths over there? As well as the late sales, you mentioned the late sales were particularly strong in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Are those driven by the licensing round now in November, or the Central round, or what's the driver here?

To take the last first, there was a bit of Crystal I and II and a bit of Crystal III in that, so it was kind of good sales in both of them. So some of that was probably related to the Central round that was, and some of it may be prepositioning for the Western round that comes in November now. We still have on our plan to go back to the Gulf to wide-azimuth, but it's been tough to allocate capacity there given the other opportunity that has emerged. And, of course, for us, Gulf of Mexico will have to compete with the alternatives we see in the MultiClient space, and contract space for that matter, globally. So I'm not prepared to give any more specifics for the time being, except just with that broad statement.

Just a follow-up. So in terms of Western Gulf of Mexico, last year third quarter was very strong because of licensing round in December in Western. Do you expect a similar demand drive from this round in November in 3Q or...

We have to see how much more potential it's possible to take out of that. But the opportunity is clearly there. Our view of the Gulf MultiClient market is that there are fewer players than there used to be pre-Macondo. But it's more the larger players that tend to buy more, if you follow. And how that plays out is tricky to say. I mean, you see now WesternGeco talking about not too much sales in the Central Gulf in the last quarter. We have to see what TGS says. And there may be different patterns emerging on the late sales, given the different mix of players in the MultiClient space. But it may be too early to conclude on that. So we will see for ourselves as well.

Okay. Thanks.

We have a question from Amy Wong. We seem to have a problem with the sound coming back to the – or from the analysts from the questions here. So she asks – haven't heard the question responded to. Can you please comment on how your order book for 2013 is building up?"

Well, as I said, in a couple of weeks we may well be past 50% for Q1. And there were already orders starting to fill up in Q2, but not the North Sea, but in other markets. And it's typically these larger contracts then extends starting in Q1 and extending into Q2. And still with healthy pricing, and in a couple of instances higher pricing than we had in the Q3.

Okay. Thank you. Then we go to the conference call. Operator, do we have any questions from the conference call line, please?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Geoffroy Stern from Cheuvreux. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. I just have a couple of questions. The first one relates to the two new builds for next year. Do you plan to decommission the Atlantic and the Pacific Explorer, which are, I would say, not that well-positioned on the cost curve?

And the second questions relate to the contract EBIT margin. It's really hard to see – I mean, the margin is improving, but it's really hard to see what is coming from productivity gains and what is come really – coming from pricing. You mentioned that Q3, the margin – contract EBIT margin will be flat versus Q2. But in Q3, obviously, you will benefit from, I would say, much higher prices. So could you help us assessing what is the embedded price increase in the backlog for the second half of this year compared to first half? Thank you.

The first part of question we touched on already in terms of, we will take an opportunistic approach to Pacific and Atlantic. But clearly, the market for six-streamer vessels is kind of diminishing in general. And with some of these new techniques, with SWIM as I mentioned, that market will be even smaller where there is a niche for these vessels. So they will disappear. Well, luckily for us, they're old and written off, so it's not kind of a big thing and will be substituted by new vessels.

I think on the other one, what I'll stick to is what I said, the run rate for Q3 adjusting for some of the one-off positives is probably 14%, 15%, I think it was EBIT percent margin. And for the year, we talk about 15% to 20%, and that should give you sort of the triangulation points to kind of look into the development, but there is a positive price development from Q2 into Q3 in our numbers. But there's also a quarterly higher cost in Q3 relative to Q2 because some of the cost factors in Q2 were also exceptionally favorable, as Gottfred mentioned. So those are kind of the points.

But you will always see from quarter-to-quarter some fluctuation relative to productivity, and we are not yet done with Q3, so we can tell you what productivity we will have in Q3, obviously. But we can tell you that Q2 was a very strong quarter on productivity, generally. And also, of course, vessel allocation will have an impact on margins. So when you run the MultiClient business in parallel to a contract business, the percentages here can swing a bit, whether Atlantic and Pacific work in the contract market or in the MultiClient market that can influence these numbers a bit on percentage basis. So they are indicators of something positive going on, but don't read too much into them in terms of the last digit and whether that is plus/minus 2 or 3 points because there may be other factors that are more important than just what the market brings here.

Okay. Thank you.

Yeah.

We will now take our next question from Tom Ackermans from Barclays. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. I've got two questions, please. First of all, if we look on the contract pricing, on our estimates we're still 18%, 19% away from previous peaks, yet you're already delivering 15%, maybe 20% contract EBIT margin. Does that mean that we need a much smaller price increase to get back to previous peak margins? And then, just what are your thoughts around that?

And then, secondly, on the OptoSeis business, are you booking that through the contract decision? And also, if you could give us an idea of what that will contribute in the remainder of this year?

I will start with the last. Clearly, there is potential – when we see the strength we see now already, and we see a pretty okay supply flow for the next two years, there's potential to push prices further here. There's no doubt about that. What we don't have a good enough view on yet is, for us, a lot of this is GeoStreamer, and I think when the reporting season is over now, we can probably start to form a better pictures how much is market in general, how much is GeoStreamer where are the different levels and how is this evolving. It's a bit too early to say how fast this will run and where we will end up. But we are clearly optimistic that it's possible to continue to raise prices here. The market dynamics would automatically give that in many ways in all segments. So it's more a matter of how much effect do you get in the different segments. Are you prepared to take the other one, Gottfred?

Is that the OptoSeis?

Yeah, the booking.

It is – OptoSeis activity is not included in the contract margin that we discussed recently. The revenues from OptoSeis is reported on the line that we see in the P&L statement called other revenues. So it's included in the $8.6 million of other revenues in the quarter. And we haven't, in reality, disclosed anything on the margin there yet. This is currently an activity where there is one project, so it doesn't make a lot of sense to give a lot of disclosures.

And that's – that should grow in the remainder of this year, I would suppose, given that you've now started up the project?

Yeah, it will slowly grow, but it won't be significant or material to the revenues of the Group. [indiscernible] (53:43)

No, I hear you. And then maybe one quick follow-up. On the tax rate, and it's perhaps a bit of a boring question, you had a lot of deferred tax in the second quarter. Can you give us an indication of where you would expect tax levels to be on sort of an average level for the year and maybe going forward?

Tax is never boring for some of us. I think in line with what we've said earlier, we have – if you think the nominal tax rate in where we operate it's slightly below 30%. We operate our vessels in primarily the Norwegian tonnage tax regime, which in a market which we're starting to see now with improved profitability would shelter some of our profits from ordinary taxation. So, going forward, I can't guarantee an individual quarter. But going forward, the reported tax rate should be lower.

Yes.

I think an indication would be 25% or slightly below that. And still a significant portion of that would, within a normal quarter, be use of our deferred tax asset, so a lesser amount will be payable taxes.

Okay, great. That's really helpful. Thanks.

We will now take our next question from Ryan Kauppila from Kauppila (sic) [Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.]. Please go ahead.

Good morning. It's from Citi. I hope I have my own bank someday, though. On the MultiClient revision of estimates for the full year on the investment, just confirming that that is on the same of level of planned activity?

It is slightly lower planned activity. As we said, there is a reduction, and the primary reason is improved acquisition efficiency. There's also – obviously, there are changes happening to our program all the time, but we are still – we still believe that for the year as a whole MultiClient will be approximately 40% of our active capacity, same as we said when we started the year.

Okay. And just on those efficiency gains that are driving some of the savings, why is – why have you really seeing the delta between your expectations in the beginning of the year and now? Does that figure just that you're still on a steep part of the learning curve and you're still seeing increasing gains, or were there some exogenous one-offs that came through?

No, I wouldn't characterize these as one-off because these are both in terms of Angola and North Sea as a result of very systematic work with the vessels and continuing trying to squeeze more out of them in terms of vessel speed, acquisition speed, keeping the streamers in the water as much as possible, producing up against the weather as much as possible. So it's really part of a very long learning curve on the GeoStreamer and what we can get out of the GeoStreamer in different waters and in different type of configurations.

Okay, that's great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We will take our next question from James Thompson from JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, chaps.

Good morning.

Couple of questions for me, please. Like we said, we have a bit of trouble hearing questions previously from the floor. But you mentioned in your presentation around your return on capital employed, and not kind of trying to leverage back the balance sheet or to achieve a high number. What do you see is the kind of cycle peak for [indiscernible] (57:38) this time around?

And secondly, what do you think the sale of the Fugro fleet is having on pricing? I mean, is it a case that the pricing you're able to pass through is all demand-driven, or is it maybe that some customers are not willing perhaps to go with that fleet as the sale prices is ongoing, and hence by kind of reducing the available global fleet?

It's difficult to say. It's clearly a demand-driven price increase we see and we are moving into now. We have seen Fugro work, so that's just going to be speculation, and I think in general speculations on the Fugro case is not something we are prepared to entertain on this call. Now, the focus is PGS and the quarterly numbers here. But in terms of the general market, the demand itself seems to take care of what's going on now in terms of a positive outlook.

Okay. Okay. And in terms of kind of where you might see this return on capital employed peaking in the next couple of years?

Yeah, sorry, sorry. Gottfred?

I'm not sure we are – I don't think we are prepared to quantify that. We've said that what we – we have said that what our ambition is, which is primarily delivering well above cost of capital over the cycle, and we also have an ambition to avoid falling short of the cost of capital in the down cycle, where it may be observed in the peak years I think it wouldn't be prudent for us to estimate now. We've shown you the historical numbers for illustration, but forward-looking information on that, I don't think I can give.

Okay. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We have no questions on the telephone at this time.

Okay. Then it seems like our final question is from the web. It's Julien Laurent from Natixis asking, you mentioned increasing cost in second half 2012 that will hamper the margin. What is driving that? Is it fuel?

I'm not sure we worded it that way. We have observed a second quarter with a favorable cost level for permanent reasons and structural reasons, such as the steaming pattern, and I will account for these things, yard stay, and in addition some favorable cost variances. For that reason, we expect third quarter to show a higher cost level, not as a structural matter, but just reverting back to in a way our average baseline of cost.

In line with what we guided in Capital Markets Day in December last year basically.

Okay. That concludes the presentation of the second quarter results. Thank you for joining us.