Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Senior Vice President Investor Relations & Communication, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rune Olav Pedersen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Sverre Strandenes — Executive Vice President-Sales & Services, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Per Arild Reksnes — Executive Vice President-Operations & Technology, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Anne Gjøen — Analyst, Svenska Handelsbanken AB (Norway)
Kim André Uggedal — Analyst, Fearnley Securities AS
John A. S. Olaisen — Analyst, ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA
Morten Nystrøm — Analyst, Nordea Bank AB (Norway)
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, Carnegie Investment Bank AB (Norway)
Terje Fatnes — Analyst, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (Norway)
Teodor Sveen Nilsen — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Iver Baatvik — Analyst, ABN AMRO Bank NV (Norway)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to this presentation of PGS Q4 2017 Results and our Capital Markets Day. My name is Bård Stenberg, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications in PGS.

Today's agenda is showing on the screen and the presentations will be given by CEO, Rune Olav Pedersen; CFO, Gottfred Langseth; Executive Vice President of Sales & Services, Sverre Strandenes; Executive Vice President of Operations and Technology, Per Arild Reksnes. We're also arranging this Capital Markets Day in cooperation with the Norwegian Association of Financial Analysts. So, with us today, we have two moderators: Anne Gjøen from Handelsbanken and Kim André Uggedal from Fearnley Securities. They will host us through the Q&A sessions.

Before we start, I would like to give some practical information. There is no fire drills planned during this event. So, if the alarm is sounded, please evacuate immediately through the emergency exits at the back of the room and also here in front. This Capital Markets Day is also being webcasted. So, for the audience here in Oslo, please use the microphones provided when asking questions. And also, the people on the webcast are invited to ask questions and also be managed by our moderators.

I would also like to draw your attention to the cautionary statement showing on the screen and also available in today's material.

So with that, it's my pleasure to give the word to CEO, Rune Olav Pedersen

Thank you, Bård. Good morning, everyone. I will start this show, this Capital Market presentation by giving you some highlights from 2017. I will go through a little bit of how we have positioned the company over the last four months, and then move on to the market.

So 2017, it was characterized by a very challenging market for seismic services. There's no doubt about it. It was a tough year, another tough year for PGS and for the industry. However, we were able, in this market, to maneuver quite successfully and get the company through. We took advantage of several regional supply constraints during especially the summer season. So we were able to get contracts at acceptable rates in the North Sea, and we were able to secure quite a few 4D jobs during the year, which has given us okay pricing compared to the industry, and the challenging market in itself.

But obviously, more importantly, we still have industry-leading MultiClient performance. And as you will see later today, we continue to be industry-leading in this segment. We have very strong sales-to-investment ratios once again for 2017. We have solid sales-to-book ratios. And some of our old investments in Brazil and some of our very new investments in Malaysia is paying great dividend. That has been very important and has pulled PGS through 2017.

In addition, we still have excellent operational performance. In PGS, we almost take this for granted, but it is not for granted. We work very hard and people in our operations department work very hard every day to make sure this continues. We have excellent safety records. That is a very high priority for us and for our customers, and it doesn't come for free.

We took delivery of the Ramform Hyperion, supplementing the best fleet in the industry. We now have a superior fleet to anyone else. We have four Titan-class vessels ahead of that fleet. And also important, and although most of you know this, we will now not build any new boats in the foreseeable future. Therefore, another important element in this is that the CapEx for PGS will come down to much lower levels going forward than what we have had historically.

And last but not least, the last four months, we have centralized, simplified and streamlined the organization. That has had two main goals. One, we needed to get our cash cost down. We needed to improve our relative cost position and reduce the cash cost. And therefore, we announced that we would reduce the cash cost by more than $100 million at the end of Q – or at the Q3 announcement. And as you will see from our guidance, we have done that and more.

The second goal of this restructuring of the organization has been to build a better organization, an organization more suited for today's market. So we have built a smaller and more centralized organization, a streamlined organization, with – and now few highlights, we put all sales efforts into one sales unit instead of having three business unit all addressing the market with their individual products. We put it all into one sales unit, and therefore, we're able to address the clients more appropriately.

We have streamlined the process for bids; that is quite important. We have centralized it, so all bids now go out of a centralized unit. And that also means that we have a much stronger centralized control over the bidding levels the rates we are offering around the world.

And we don't necessarily bid every contract to win it. If we win a contract it's because we want it. And that is quite important and that has changed during that last – with this reorganization. And obviously, we will continue to improve project execution. We made a project delivery organization here, which have the economic responsibility for any project, whether it's the contract or MultiClient in PGS.

And we have a more effective Imaging organization, which is smaller and more directed towards assisting the MultiClient library. And together, the MultiClient sales team and the Imaging organization makes up this excellent MultiClient business we have. But obviously, we will focus on short-term profitability or more precisely, short-term cash flow in 2018. That is the focus, and therefore, the focus on cost has been so strong in these last months.

And I'm happy to say that we have completed our reorganization during Q4. It has been a very exhausting exercise internally in PGS. Several hundred people have left the company, good people. We have also, as part of this reorganization, refocused. So we have decided to discontinue our EM activities, taken out all costs, but we maintained the technology. We maintained the library, but there will be no cost on EM going forward. We will reintroduce this to the market when we see that we can make money from it.

We have also decided that we will explore possibilities of divesting the OptoSeis business. This is also a non-core activity and we will not spend cost going forward on this. It's a good technology, but someone else can take this forward.

Finally, we have decided to sell our Cairo processing center, which is a good processing center, but it has its strength both on land processing, in 2D processing and some 3D, which is not core to PGS. It's not because it's a bad center, but it is not core to PGS. Core for processing in PGS will be 3D processing, high-end processing which we are good at, and it will be based in our central hubs rather than a place like Cairo.

So with this, that's why we have chosen this tagline, Refocused and Reenergized. We have spent the last month to refocus the business, and now we're through it and now we're reenergized and we're ready to attack the market. And we've done this without sacrificing the earning potential for PGS.

And this slide shows you the average number of streamers in 2017 per quarter in the gray bars and the average 3D streamers – the average 3D streamer count for 2018 in the blue bars. And as you can see, it is fairly flat. It is fairly flat.

So, we will operate our fleet of eight vessels in this setup. We have assumed that we will operate six vessels in Q1 and six vessels in Q4, which is what we have communicated to the market. Therefore, we have fixed cost at a six-vessel level and there's variable cost beyond that.

Obviously, we want to introduce the eight vessels – or seventh or the eighth vessel into Q1 – Q2, Q3, if there is no work for it, but we are – the way we see the market now, I'm fairly comfortable that that guidance of [ph] six, eight, eight, six (00:10:28) will continue.

So, we have stated earlier that we believe in a flat market. I think I will rephrase; we plan for a flat market. We plan for a flat market. That is what we're saying here today and I'll get back to that. And how does this look if the market is flat? And I said that our main goal is cash flow.

This is an illustration. What you see here is our 2017 reported revenues as an illustration. And here, you see our guidance on cost and CapEx. Our scheduled debt repayments, scheduled interest repayments, and an estimation of tax cash cost based on what we have experienced over the last years. And as you see, a fairly healthy positive cash flow year-end.

In a flat market, we'd retain earnings potential for PGS. It's important to note that this does not include restructuring costs. We have taken those costs in Q4, but obviously some of the cash will come this year. So this does not include the restructuring costs.

Why is this so important? Why do we stress this? Obviously, it's very important for liquidity, that is quite obvious, and we need to make sure we have a significant and sufficient liquidity buffer going forward. As important, this puts this company in a good position to refinance our debt, which falls due late 2020 and early 2021. And it's important to get the company in a state where we're making money, earning cash when we refinance. That's why this is so important, and we can do this in a flat market.

So, is a flat market a reasonable assumption? Are we too optimistic? Are we too pessimistic? I will run you through some market slides and I will start with the very basics. What is going to happen to the demand for oil and gas going forward? We've taken this from BP World Energy Outlook 2017. If you look at almost any other similar report, it will have a similar picture. And we've looked at all which we could find.

What you see here is that there is an increasing need for oil and gas up to 2035. Although renewable take a – have a larger growth, there is also a growth and a need for oil and gas in this period.

What you don't see here is the decline rates from existing fields. All existing field have a decline rate, which also has to be replaced. And it's clear that even though you project in a quite aggressive growth from U.S. shale, which I think is appropriate and I hope [ph] to gather how (00:13:45) they do it, otherwise we have no chance of meeting supply and demand as I will show you. This is not enough. Offshore exploration needs to come back. We need to find more oil and gas. We need to bring more project into production to meet this demand and the decline rate.

This is the discoveries in last year and all the way back to 2012. We discovered 6.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent last year, which is the lowest level we have seen since 1947, 1947.

Exploration spending, drilling has been significantly down. I'll just show you it's been very, very tough for the seismic industry. And in my opinion, oil discovery levels are at an unsustainable level. And you could see that also from the reserve replacement ratio and the reserve life ratios. And we need increased exploration activity in the world to reverse this trend. That is needed; everyone sees this.

So the question is, can our clients afford to do that? Can they afford to spend more money on exploration? And the answer to that is yes, they can.

This is an overview of some integrated oil companies. You see the list on the bottom and their cost base. You have the breakeven after CapEx down here in the blue, and then you have the breakeven after CapEx and dividend in the lighter blue and it's around $50 per barrel.

Currently, the oil price is $70. Our clients are making more cash almost than ever before. So, yes, they can clearly afford to increase exploration spending and they need to do so.

Here's another interesting set which brings it a little bit closer to home, a little bit closer to seismic. Normally, seismic spending is quite correlated to E&P offshore spending. This year, that's not the case. E&P offshore spending is quite significantly down in 2017 compared to 2016, which is what this graph shows, while seismic spending is quite a bit up in 2017 compared to 2016.

Seismic is early cyclical, we saw it in the downturn. I think we see it again when the tide is turning.

So that's the demand side. Looks fairly positive when you look for it.

Supply side, streamers have come down quite a bit. You see the seasonal flexibilities here. Schlumberger has decided to exit the seismic acquisition market. That will have an impact on vessels and what vessels are available for the market in 2018. What happens more longer term? No one knows, obviously. But this obviously should benefit also the supply market or the supply of seismic vessels.

So based on this, we guide a group cash cost of approximately $575 million, MultiClient cash investments of approximately $250 million, and more than 50% of our fleet will be used for MultiClient. The remaining, obviously, for marine contract. Capital expenditures of approximately $50 million.

So in summary, higher oil price, improved cash flow among oil companies, unsustainable reserve replacement ratios, we believe, they will benefit the seismic markets going forward. These are indications that we will see a market improvement in 2018.

So why do I plan for a flat market? Well, first of all, we come out of what has been a very challenging winter season and are, in a way, still in it. Secondly, it is both appropriate and prudent to plan for something we are quite certain will happen. And then, we can always handle the upside if it comes. That is why we plan for a flat market.

So with a centralized, simplified and streamlined PGS organization, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of the market to come. We are also well positioned to handle any market should it be less optimistic than what I may have given you an impression of during this presentation. And therefore, we are reenergized, refocused to capture future market opportunities.

And with that, Gottfred.

Good morning. I will start. Please notify me if the sound isn't okay. I will start with reviewing the Q4 and the preliminary full-year 2017 numbers. And thereafter, I will cover some selected Capital Markets Day finance area topics.

We are satisfied with how we finished 2017 as Rune alluded to. The full-year EBITDA ended at $374.1 million. Q4 EBITDA, $122.8 million. The final fine count of the MultiClient revenues in Q4 ended a bit higher than what we indicated when we released our update in the first week of January. So it ended at $178 million compared to the approximately $170 million that we disclosed then.

With the strong Q4, our 2017 MultiClient revenues ended up 14% compared to 2016. We had a sales-to-investment ratio of 2.5 times, that as well an improvement over 2016. And pre-funding level ended at 140%.

The contract market was and is challenging with significant seasonal variations, and a weak Q4 this year. Slow booking, but that has improved after the turn of the year and early in the new year.

Liquidity reserve increased in the quarter, ended at $257.3 million. And as Rune has covered relatively fully, we implemented a new organization and measures to reduce our cash costs in 2018 by more than $100 million compared to the actuals for 2017.

Looking quickly at some key financial numbers quarterly for the last three years. We can observe that we have started to deliver somewhat better revenue and EBITDA numbers for the last three quarters. Still looking at the lower-left chart here, which shows the adjusted EBIT, we are – and that's a fact – loss making. And we operate in a weak market with unsustainable financial results, particularly relating to our marine contract services and Imaging.

Cash flow generation, as you can see to the bottom right, is improving, but there is a lag effect now in the fourth quarter since a fair share of the increased revenues in the fourth quarter will be collected early 2018.

Quickly on the P&L summary, revenues $235.9 million, that's a 50% improvement over Q4 2016. The EBITDA of $122.8 million, that's more than a doubling from Q4 a year earlier.

We had a negative EBIT, even excluding the charges and impairments of $24 million. And if we include the charges in the quarter and for the year, both the net EBIT and the net income, at almost the bottom of this table, is significantly negative.

On this slide, I have summarized the impairments and charges. I will go through them, but seek to be quick. We recorded impairments on the MultiClient library of $14.2 million in the quarter, bringing the full year total to $59.2 million (sic) [$59.4 million] (00:23:43).

We had a small impairment on property and equipment in the fourth quarter, a bit over $2 million. But the full year number higher, a bit over $40 million, recorded primarily in the third quarter and relating to our adjustment to the fleet, including the stacking of Ramform Vanguard and side effects of that.

We recorded a significant impairment of intangible assets in the fourth quarter, $53.6 million. Relates to two things. Our decision to discontinue the EM activities or most of the intangible assets relating to that has been written down. It also relates to our decision to explore divesting our OptoSeis technology and business.

Lastly, we had other charges in the quarter, $64.7 million. Most of these have been, call it, pre-announced. We recorded restructuring cost of $39.7 million. I will revert to that a little bit later. We also recorded a loss from the settlement of ISS tax dispute in Brazil that we sent to inform the market about in November, $14.4 million. And then, we had an adjustment fairly large on our provision, which we move up and down on onerous customer contracts.

Moving to the Q4 2017 operational highlights. Total revenues on MultiClient in the quarter, $178.2 million. Dominant share of that is pre-funding revenues of $107.7 million, which is driven by, yes, good ongoing projects and pre-funding of those, but that quite significant incremental sales on surveys in the processing phase in the fourth quarter.

So the pre-funding, the revenues brings the pre-funding percent to 199%. That's almost a record, but it's actually not for PGS on the investments of $54 million. Late sales in the quarter, $70.5 million. The marine contract revenues ended at $40.5 million. We achieved slightly or somewhat higher prices in the fourth quarter, but obviously didn't have a lot of other activity. Same sort of capacity used for MultiClient – sorry, for marine contract as the fourth quarter in 2016 approximately.

This slide show across the regional distribution of MultiClient revenues. In the fourth quarter, the pre-funding revenues were dominated by Asia Pacific, Europe and South America. And the late sales were more significant in West Africa, Europe and South America.

Moving to the MultiClient library, illustrated here on sales progress and capitalized cost and book value by vintage. The total book value of the library, $512 million at year-end, substantially down from $647.7 million a year earlier. We have good sales progress and moderate book value on our library, particularly obviously for the surveys completed in 2012 – between 2012 and 2015. We had an amortization expense in 2017 of $366.8 million. This corresponds to a 69% amortization rate.

Did I skip one? On the key operational numbers that we included loss on numbers. I commented on most of the line items. The only incremental comment I would make here is relating to our external Imaging revenues, which have gradually decreased over this two-year period shown. Two primary reasons for that: very challenging market for external Imaging services, and secondly we are using more of our Imaging capacity for the processing of our MultiClient library at the expense of external processing.

Vessel utilization, we had weak utilization in the fourth quarter, 46% idle time. We will have, if we follow our operating model for vessels, quite a bit idle time in Q1 and Q4 since sort of winter stacking two out of eight vessels, we don't generally bring 25% of stack or standby time, but we ended higher than the 25% with the reported 32% stacked/standby time on top of some yard activity for the quarter. And the incremental loss of production there is related primarily to idle time on several vessels before starting new surveys after completing the North Atlantic season.

For the full year, we ended using 43% of our active capacity for the MultiClient versus then 57%, the other part for marine contract. So it's less MultiClient activity than we planned for a year ago.

Order book, what happened here? Order book, $135 million at end December. This is clearly very low. We're not too concerned with this. The cutoff date this time was a bit unfortunate and we have progressed out quite a bit on booking, firming up new acquisition projects during January.

So, the status on booking us early this week is that we booked out for 2018 33 vessel months, 3D vessel months of our fleet with 14.5 of that in Q1, 11.5 in Q2, and 7 in Q3. Still on the moderate side.

This is the way we will report our booking going forward. The reason for changing away from the percentages is that we will be flexible on how much of the capacity we operate. And this will inform – give information on how many vessels we have secured work for and you all know what kind of model we're seeking to achieve throughout the year.

As an example, Q1 14.5 vessel months, that's almost five vessels out of the six that we have available for operation in the quarter. So it's 80% booked for Q1. And in reality, for Q1, the remaining 20% is – it is all that we would be in practice, 100% sold, had it not been for gaps created by permitting issues in the first quarter, which is a problem that we see in many of the countries that we operate in this part of the season.

We're okay with the current dynamics and we are reasonably confident that we will be able to book and operate eight vessels on acceptable terms from early Q2. None of the statistics – none of the planned, expected North Sea projects are yet included in the booking. The reason for that is that we haven't finally decided which to do and the pre-funding is not yet committed.

Also, we see a positive trend on leads and bid activity. And as a change from last year, we see meaningfully more discussion or leads relating to the second half of 2018 and Q4, which were more or less completely absent a year back.

Moving on to cost, this is the quarterly cost development. We ended with $170 million gross cash cost in fourth quarter. That's – I will have to move this one. Otherwise, this will continue to happen – down from Q3. Reasons for the reduction is the stacking of Ramform Vanguard as well as the reduction to six vessels with two vessels warm-stacked in Q4.

Offsetting this, to some extent, we had higher project variable cost in the quarter. When we move into 2018, there would be another step change down in cost levels already in Q1.

Couple of comments on the cash flow. Cash from operations, $84.3 million, which is okay, but clearly quite a bit lower than the EBITDA for the quarter. And this is, as you may have caught already, related to our revenue-driven increase in working capital, which will benefit our cash flow in the coming period. The other comment is that in investing activity in the cash flow statement, there is, in a way – on the net basis, $57.6 million we got released relating to the settlement of ISS disputes in Brazil.

Balance sheet, liquidity reserve of $257.3 million. That's somewhat down from a year back, but up from what we had in the third quarter. Total leverage ratio, 3.65:1 (sic) [3.67:1] (00:35:20) at end of year, which is significantly down from what we had in Q3. And we have a substantial headroom compared to the requirement in the Revolving Credit Facility, which at the same time is 4.75:1.

That send me to the end of the Q4 and preliminary full-year 2017 numbers. And I will move into a few topics which are – we regularly cover on these events: primarily cost, a bit on cash flow outlook for 2018, CapEx, MultiClient investments, and the more challenging topics such as IFRS 15, tax and foreign exchange at the end.

Starting with the cost illustration on this slide, we seek to illustrate the main drivers bringing our gross cash cost from $690 million in 2017 to $575 million in 2018. And the primary elements are from the left here staff reduction; then the adjustments to our fleet, which produced in a way the flexible model as well as the stacking of Ramform Vanguard, somewhat offset by a full-year operation of Ramform Hyperion. Should be said that in the bars here, the salary cost reduction relating to our offshore operations is in the fleet adjustment bar and not in the staff reduction bar. So, it could probably have been done in both ways.

Next, the close or scale-down of our EM and OptoSeis operations.

Offsetting the decreases from the measures we implement, we have an increase there in – I think it's yellow – relating to the fact that our fuel cost will increase in 2018. And as it looks, we will have less favorable foreign exchange rates than we had last year. So that is, in a way, creating a little bit of resistance in our attempt to get even further down on our cost.

Our tight cost control remains a key priority and we're highly committed, it's fair to say, to delivering on our cost ambition.

And a quick look at restructuring costs. We had an initial estimate of $40 million to $50 million. We made a provision now in Q4 of $39.7 million. $33.9 million of that is relating to severance, staff reductions; and $5.8 million relating to onerous lease contracts, primarily office spaces, for office space that we have vacated and where it's not likely that we will take that into use again in foreseeable future.

We paid out of this $39.7 million, $3 million paid in the fourth quarter and most of the remaining will be paid throughout 2018 with a declining profile. That's as precise as it gets.

We do not expect any material restructuring cost to be booked in the first quarter of 2018. We think that there may be a little bit, but with moderate incremental costs to be expensed, our total restructuring cost for this reorganization is likely to end in the lower end of the initial estimate.

And then, Rune have covered this quite a bit already so this may be spoon feeding you a little bit, but we provide a simplified illustration of cash flow for 2018 and we used [ph] 27 (00:40:01) actual revenues as a starting point, and then some sensitivity around them. This is not meant as a guiding on revenues. I understand that some will just read it as an indication on revenues, but that is not the intention. It's also not intended as an exact guiding on cash flow obviously.

So, our financial target and our key financial target is to be cash flow positive after debt service next year. The table there just lists our expectations for various cash elements going out of the company, cost, CapEx, installments, and the interest expense, and cash. Actually, this can be seen as our best estimate to put it that way. We may miss by a few million, but that is what we expect as of today. And with flat revenues, and that is an assumption for illustration purposes, we will deliver a meaningful positive cash flow for next year. And as illustrated with the up and down cases, we can absorb quite a bit of negative variation from this without it becoming problematic for the company.

Just quickly, this illustration does not take into effect in a way the moderating effect you typically get from working capital changes if revenues drop or, on the other side, increase where you typically will have a countering swing in working capital. And as Rune clearly stated, it also doesn't include the remaining cash payments of restructuring cost.

This is our debt and facilities as of year-end. There are no material changes there, so I will not say much more than the drawing on the revolving facility at year-end is $190 million, so that's $210 million undrawn. So, it's reduced somewhat during the fourth quarter.

This is a simple illustration relating to our maintenance covenant. The revolving credit facility was, as you are aware, a year back, extended from 2018 to 2020 maturity and, at the same time, the maintenance covenant profile was amended, and that's the top line in this chart. That is what we are required to comply with. And the lower line, blue one, is our actual total leverage ratio during 2017, and it shows that we've had a strong reduction in the leverage ratio and we have a substantial headroom. And it is clear that we expect to be in compliance with the maintenance covenants going forward.

This is an illustration of the maturity profile of our debt. For the first two years, as you can see in the graph, the debt repayments relate to the annual installments on amortizing debt as well as, in 2018, the in final maturity of the 2018 notes, $26 million of those. We are in position to cover these debt repayments by our operating cash flow.

Beyond that or from here after 2019, it's almost – it is almost three years until we get to the substantial maturities, late 2020 and early 2021. And in a way, Rune stole my thunder a little bit there and that's fair enough as you're the CEO. This is a two-step logic. We need to demonstrate that we can deliver a positive cash flow. And if we deliver on that we believe that we should be well-positioned to refinance the 2020 maturities well in advance of their due dates.

CapEx and depreciation trends. Graph on the top shows our maintenance CapEx. Graph at the bottom shows our new build CapEx, which ended in 2017, and we expect obviously none in 2018. Full-year 2017, we had $154 million CapEx, almost $90 million of that related to the new builds. For 2018, we will reduce the maintenance CapEx somewhat to $50 million approximately, and that's primarily related to seismic and processing equipment, but also some of that is related to maintenance investments on our fleet.

This slide shows the trends of MultiClient investment and pre-funding, which both are solid. In 2017, we had MultiClient cash investments of $213 million and 140% pre-funding on that. And I think the graph illustrates here, on the top, that we have a strong pre-funding record and we have historically tended to be in or at the high end of our targeted range for pre-funding or sometimes quite a bit above. This is due to the combination of well-funded project at inception of the project and our ability to achieve incremental sales of the surveys throughout the project execution. MultiClient investments next year, $250 million. More than 50% of capacity to be used for MultiClient and with an overweight in second and third quarter [ph] through (00:47:08) summer quarters.

Okay. I will take a deep breath on this one. So, this is a difficult topic for the industry, I would almost say frustrating, but it is so that IFRS 15 revenue recognition takes effect 1st January 2018. So, it's already in effect a month back. This slide is very wordy, so I don't – anyway, those interested will have time to read it. I will try to get through it without losing the thought flow.

This new standard is likely to result in a change of the way seismic companies report revenues on more pre-funding related to MultiClient projects, the projects in progress. That is the simple takeaway. And what I comment on the remaining is only relating to that, pre-funding revenues. The other revenue -services and revenues are not impacted so as marine contract and late sales for MultiClient and similar. The companies in the seismic industry has – have then, for more than a year, worked clearly hard to achieve an accounting for pre-funding revenues, which is similar to the one that we use today, which is a percent on the percentage of completion basis. And we've also worked to achieve a consistent practice or similar conclusions. To the disappointment for all of us, we have not been able to conclude that. We worked with sort of secondary solutions, which, based on milestones or interim deliveries, achieved some of the same. That as well is not concluded. It is therefore, in a way, [ph] we turn into (00:49:24) the first quarter of 2018 and we will report under the standard. When we report the Q1 numbers, it is therefore likely there's a high likelihood that we will have to change how we account all of the companies for external or pre-funding revenues.

How it ends up? I don't know as of today. We – obviously, it's realistic that we end up with a deferral until complete completion of the finally processed data, which may be around a year or sometimes later, sometimes more after the completion of the acquisition of a survey. Obviously, this will provide quite terrible sort of matching with the company's use of resources and project progress and so on, and would also make it difficult for those [ph] of you who are analysts (00:50:28) to estimate in a way. Now, there's a reasonable chance of estimating well what the investors are doing and guessing on the pre-funding on surveys while that is – that will be much more difficult in the completed contract method of accounting.

We believe that the percentage of completion method is a superior method in the way that the revenue recognition coincides with project progress, resources used and primarily vessels, and also value creation. And it is also the basis for how we establish payment plans for – with our pre-funders normally, because that's tied to when resources are used.

If this ends up concluding that pre-funding revenues [ph] we'll have to then (00:51:29) materially defer towards completion of the final data. We will, for internal reporting purposes and performance management, continue using percentage of completion. That's the only thing that works.

For the external financial reporting, we would obviously do as IFRS 15 tells us, but we will provide percentage of completion information either as a supplement or as a part of the financial reporting with appropriate reconciliations of course. That one was long.

One more thing to say only and that is this change will not have any negative impact on the measurement or calculations of covenants in our loan agreements. So, that is not an issue here.

Okay. With IFRS 15 done, tax should be easy, so I'll make this pretty short. We are continuing to operate some of our vessels in the Norwegian tonnage tax regime. All of the Titan-class are Ramforms. The other vessels we took out are exited from the tonnage tax regimen with effect from 2016. Our cash taxes are illustrated on the graph to the left, have varied between sort of $10 million and – in the low-end and $35 million in the high-end over the last six years, in the low-end for the last couple of years as you will – see, these are taxes that primarily are withholding taxes in the countries where we operate and where we put resources in and pay for services or vessels or local taxation in countries where we don't – do not have anything to offset that with. So, it could be revenue-based taxes and similar. So, we believe this will fluctuate, but this is an illustration of where we should generally be considering the fact that we're in a weak market. In an improving market this will gradually increase of course.

We have substantial tax carry-forward losses or tax assets in Norway and many other countries, which will benefit us going forward when we have a full valuation allowance against these, and there are no deferred tax assets recognized in the balance sheet.

We are exposed to foreign currency risk primarily on our cost base. We report in U.S. dollars. Some of our cost is in Norwegian krone and pounds and some other currencies, but krone and pounds are most important. Most of our costs are in dollars but that doesn't impact anything here. And we have been enjoying a beneficial currency exchange rates for a couple of years; weak krone, weak pound against the dollar. Some reversal over 2017, some more changes now during January, and our – the sensitivity for our cost base measurements is so that a 10% change of the krone versus the dollar for a full – with effect for a full year would be in the range of $15 million to $20 million. And for the pound, same sort of 10% change against the dollar. The effect is around a third of that, between $5 million and $8 million.

This is my last slide, and we are on time, and I will be short on this one. To sum up, we are delivering a solid MultiClient performance with high cash generation. We've implemented substantial reductions of our cost and our capital expenditure. We're well-positioned to deliver positive cash flow after debt service for 2018. And the delivery of our 2018 financial targets should position us to refinance well in advance of our 2020 maturities.

I think I will stop there. And I think we're then ready for the Q&A session. And someone else may want to take the lead. Bård? Anne?

Yeah. Yes. We have, today, two Q&A sessions. The first one is approximately 15 minutes and it's one coming up later. Normally, it's many that want to ask questions [ph] to be just, (00:56:51) so I kindly ask you to limit your questions to two in this first session. But we will ask a couple of questions first. So, I hand it over to you.

Thank you. Okay. If we start with the fourth quarter results and they are surprisingly strong pre-funding ratio if you like. If you look at MultiClient revenues, it seems that close to $40 million comes from Southeast Asia and you indicate that is primarily related to pre-funding. We understand that you have bought into a survey in Malaysia together with Schlumberger. Looking at the vessel activity in that region for fourth quarter, I assume there is $5 million, maybe $10 million of investments in that region this quarter. So, is there any kind of cash payment to Schlumberger on this survey in fourth quarter or is that – this is deferred or if you can talk us through the accounting of that survey in particular and that region?

Yeah. I didn't hear what you indicated or guessed on investments. There are no one-off investments in the quarter. We are now in the fourth phase of the so-called, can I say that, that is Sabah project, and that is the phase that is acquired by WesternGeco. We have acquired the two first phases, WesternGeco acquired three, started in late summer or something like that, and now the fourth is ongoing. And this is a joint venture setup. It's a variable participation between the parties in the different phases. So, the phases that we participate in we pay our pro rata share of the ongoing agreed cost, on the agreed basis, and we receive the same share of annual revenues generated by the survey. So, there's not anything more peculiar than that and I don't recollect how much we invested in that survey in Q4, but it could probably be between $5 million and $10 million or below $5 million in the fourth quarter, something like that.

And obviously sales from these surveys, if I could put it, these four surveys in Malaysia, which you see which we are strong are obviously not only sales from an ongoing acquisition project. These are sales from surveys we have done way back what we're processing is not done yet and therefore each recorded as pre-funding rather than [ph] latest (00:59:42), but that's just because processing is not completed.

So, you had the same ownership in all service from kind of the start of these projects?

No, then you didn't listen. I said that the ownership varies between the phases.

Yeah. And there is no deferred payments coming in first quarter?

No, there are no deferred payments. We send – the participants get their monthly bid, and we will pay at least PGS always pay on time.

Good. Okay. If we can move to page 37 and just looking at your guidance, and you also have a chart indicating that you are a slightly a cash flow positive for 2018. And in the chart at the table at page 37 you indicate, if we assume, revenues down 5%, you have a cash flow of $20 million. That excludes the $30 million remaining of cash payments on severance settlements, right? So, you are actually negative cash flow if you assume a 5% drop.

So I just would like to get, you assume a flat market or plan for a flat market, so that would indicate flat prices, flat, more or less, late sales. You have a lower operating asset base in number of vessels this year. You have a 37% decline in backlog [ph] booked (01:01:14) from one year ago and you have a MultiClient library, which is valued at your books at $135 million or so, lower than one year ago. So, can you just get this to the flat revenue line for 2018? How is that? If you can build that bridge for us.

Sure. We'll do that. We, yeah, you can assume flat rate sales, flat revenues and pre-funding. And as I showed in slide something in the beginning there, there is a very limited impact on the vessel. So, basically, we have the same vessel capacity operating this year as we did last year.

In addition to that, last year, we had quite a bit of idle time on those – the vessels we had available. So, you see similar vessel capacity, quite a bit of idle time last year, which we believe we can take out or do better this year. We had also a few projects, which were not good projects. We took contracts, which were not good. So, even achieving the same rates but just performing better on a few of those projects would increase – so that creates a little bit of buffer for the flat revenue line.

But the main thing is we believe that we have the same earnings capacity in terms of vessels. We believe we're going to have the same late sales, and we believe we're going to have the same pre-funding in flat. And it obviously may shift around a little bit what is late sale, what is pre-funding and things like that.

The order book is weak. I don't think it's a good indication of where we see 2018 going. I mean, as a one-off point, it's one of the points you can look at obviously. And, in this case, I think it is weak compared to where we see the position. In other quarters, they may be strong compared to where we see the position. There's a little bit of how we – when we land the contracts, if you can see, all our leads from 10% chance of success all the way up to 100%, which is like a big basket, when it tips over the secured line, it goes into the order book, but it doesn't say anything about what we – the comfort in the company of securing the work, just to kind of address that a little bit.

So, that's why we believe that a flat market equates approximately, but this is not a guidance. When we say a flat market, it may be a little bit of [ph] them. (01:03:55)

Hello. I have one question related to 4D. You and WesternGeco have – or should I have – say have the highest market share within 4D market. Previously, you indicated 25 projects, 40 projects in 2018. Now, it looks to be a bit lower than that, 22 or so. It was a substantial increase from 2017. Now, it's not that substantial increase because it was more in 2017, but still, for you, is it much upside potential already this year due to the WesternGeco exit? And that means how much tendering is it out in this market now for remaining for this year?

There is quite a bit of 4D tenders out currently. And obviously, we have just – the announcement from Schlumberger just arrived, so I don't think – it's too early for us to say that, yes, we see tangible proof that we are winning more following this. But it's clear, as you say, that this market has been mainly reserved for multi-component streamers, which has mainly been WesternGeco and PGS, and therefore we have had the lion's share of that 4D market. We had it in 2017 as well and we expect to have it in 2018. And it's clear that we find it quite interesting that they claim that they will not bid in the 4D job. So, yes, this is an interesting opportunity for PGS I would say.

Thank you. Then John Olaisen.

Hey. Good morning. It's John Olaisen from ABG Sundal Collier. Two questions if I may. First, on the contract rates and the outlook, you're saying that you're going from expect to plan – [ph] you say (01:06:16) expect a flat market , now you say you plan for a flat market, implying that you're a bit more optimistic now. Can you give us some indication of the prices that you have in your current backlog? And what's your view on the outlook for the summer? Any hope for price increase at all? That was question one.

Yeah. We are going to be cautious obviously to talk about prices, but it's – what we have in Q1, which we have secured, prices are slightly up to up from the same period last year. And I think it's reasonable to expect a seasonable swing in prices as we saw last year also this year. But other than that I think I will leave it at that for prices.

So, just to specify, you said what you have booked so far for 2018 is up or slightly up year-on-year?

Yeah.

Also, compared to the fairly strong rates you achieved in December last year?

Now, the...

Now, this is on...

Quarter-to-quarter.

Same period.

Same period, yeah.

[] (01:07:18)

Same period-to-period yeah.

Okay. That's good.

Your comment is on Q1 [ph] what we have in our... (01:07:21)

In Q1. And how about the backlog you have for Q2 and Q3, the prices for December?

You know, I don't think I will comment further on that.

Okay. And secondly you said that there would be no new builds for the foreseeable future in PGS, but how about the WesternGeco boats, they are now out in the market. Is there any chance that those vessels could end up in PGS? Is there something – was there definitely no [ph] way to (01:07:49) or is – do you see some options that that could happen?

I think I'll be limited in commenting on that as well. We don't need more vessel. As you know, we have several stacked vessels. What I mean, this is a industry opportunity, which everyone has to consider, and other than that I don't think I'll comment more.

But do you rule it out?

No, I think I will repeat what I said.

Would you be happy if BGP boats, the Chinese boats, the whole fleet of WesternGeco?

We'll take what comes.

Okay. Then I'll take next question from Morten Nystrøm.

Yes, this is Morten from Nordea. So, if you look at 2018, I would say that contract revenues can't be many worse than you did in 2017 and late sales, given where [ph] all sits (01:08:45), likely at least at the same level. So, the main certainty is the pre-funding level and also your visibility on investments. And if you look back the last two years, you have actually ended up slightly below your initial targets on MultiClient investments.

So, my question is regarding the $250 million you have planned for MultiClient investments. What is the visibility on these investments? What is a pre-funding level compared to the high level you had in 2017? Thank you.

In a way, it is so that the income on which projects to do, our visibility is at par with what we had last year, that's clearly surveys that – and you will see that from the booking. In a way, we aren't there at the stage where we have decided to do, in a way, all of these surveys. So, there is a risk that if we don't get surveys that delivers the financials that we are satisfied with, that we end up lower. We hope to be able to maybe turn up higher, but that, in a way, we have to deliver that through the year. And that is, in many ways, a sensitivity to – if you seek to estimate what the EBITDA number for PGS would end up next year, it's less so for the cash flow, in a way, assuming we're able to achieve sort of acceptable contract work to offset the change. So, I'm not sure it's possible to say much more meaning...

I guess we have somewhat more MultiClient projects going into this year...

Yeah.

...in Q1 in what we're doing now than what we did in a similar period last year. So, in a way we're spending a bit more as we speak than we did last year, so I guess that would be a flavor to it. But other than that, I think that's great. And we don't – we have deliberately not guided on pre-funding percentage, so you'll have to – you'll just have to accept that we will continue to operate within our guidance of between $80 million and $120 million. And I can point you to the fact that we have over performed quite a bit on that over the last years, which mainly is because of late sales in a way not late sales, but sales which is late sale, similar sales in the processing phase, which we discussed regarding Malaysia.

<Q – Morten Nystrøm – Nordea Bank AB (Norway)> :If I just could follow-up on your – number of vessels you're planning for the North Sea, and if you also could touch slightly on the Canada 2018 season. Thank you.

Yeah. No, I won't – I won't tell you how many vessels we plan to do in – how many vessels we plan to have in the North Sea or in Canada. But I can tell you, yes, we will have active and good program in Canada also this year, and we plan to have more than one vessel in the North Sea as well. [indiscernible]

(01:12:16) [indiscernible]

(01:12:21) Markets, and the first on backlog. You already highlighted that that backlog was pretty weak by end 2017. But what is the number right now? Is it up 10%, 30% or 50%, any indication?

No, I don't think I will indicate that. You'll have to do with the booking as of now.

And then on accounting under the new standard on the revenue recognition, which, of course, is very important for earnings, but not important for cash flow at all. Looking at the quarters with a high portion of pre-funding revenue, I guess it could be pretty challenging to estimate earnings. Could we actually see this [ph] in order to have (01:13:05) pre-funding revenues down 50% compared to the previous accounting standard?

This is only about timing. This is, in a way, if you just assume that every project takes a year to – from mid acquisition to completing the data, you just push – and you get every survey booked as, in a way, one revenue voucher on a specific day in some quarter. So, you just push 2017 pre-funding revenues to 2018 and the 2018 revenues to 2019, which makes budgeting fantastically easy, and we don't do that unfortunately and it won't help me.

But [ph] there is (01:13:51) more likely to be lumpy and the main concern is that, in a way, most of the revenues are generated from the vessels and what that vessels are doing either as pre-funding revenues or contract revenues or from the sales from the library. That's where we, in a way, delivers revenues every quarter. And with this new standard, if the pre-funding part of revenues is not to be booked until you process the date and delivery, you'd have very significant swings in how much the ongoing vessel activity delivers. In a way, we could [ph] put all vessels (01:14:32) to contract and collect the pre-funding revenues for the acquisition last year with [ph] over reported (01:14:38) revenues compared to the revenue generating capability and vice versa.

So, we haven't concluded this yet and we have not given it up, but it's an uphill struggle. I think those of you who follow other industries would see a bit of the same problem. We have not been able as an industry. In a way, we're a tiny, tiny industry in the global economy and that standard [ph] set there (01:15:04) in IFRS has not given us a lot of priority, to put it that way. I fear that we will have to defer and have deferred the – deferring the revenue recognition. We will, as many companies in different segments, has started doing over the last couple of years. We will report the numbers on the new standard and then we will report the numbers as we feel they best represent value creation and progress. And then we'd all be able to look at both and you decide for yourselves, which you think most meaningfully reflects, in a way, performance. And it will make things a bit more complicated. What I can promise is I would do whatever I can to make sure that, and I talk a lot to my peer group on this. We do it in a similar way, so that, in a way, we don't create more confusion than absolutely necessary.

So, we will most likely end up with two sets of numbers, you have the completed contract PGS numbers and you have the percentage of completion PGS numbers. And then it's down to the user of the report [indiscernible] (01:16:15) in a way, in addition to the cash flow and all of these other things, more meaningfully sort of portrays the performance.

I think most people understand that this is just a timing issue and not the total revenue and total cash flow [ph] will not change, (01:16:28) but could you just give a sensitivity for third quarter, which is a quarter where, traditionally, you have a lot of vessel activity? How much of the pre-funding revenue could potentially be pushed out?

I'm unable to say that. If you assume that we are able to complete the data in 12 months, then you will push out the pre-funding revenues delivered in the third – produced pre-funding progress in that third quarter and we will book the pre-funding produced the year before in the same quarter, so it will be lumpy and difficult to say what the net effect is.

Okay, that's fair. Thanks.

Hello? Yeah. Okay. Shall we do one question before we go for a short break? From the Web from Sahar Islam from UBS, would you consider buying existing assets from player like Schlumberger exiting the market if the price is right? I guess you've already answered that.

If the oil price remains as strong as it has been recently, would your spending plans, CapEx investments increase or is the guidance you have given a hard ceiling even if the market is better than it is now?

No. In a way this is our plan and we will not increase our cost of CapEx due to observing the oil price. Obviously, if our – if we start to deliver better cash flows and have opportunities for incremental projects or other things, we may adjust the base plan, but this is the plan until we see that we are able to generate enough of positive cash flow to consider doing something else.

Okay. Thank you. And then we move for a short break, 10 minutes, 15 minutes.

[Break] (01:18:36-01:33:21)

Okay. I think we are ready to start again. My name is on Sverre Strandenes and I head up the new Sales & Services organization in PGS. And I have the following menu to serve to you today. I'll talk briefly about the new organization. I will talk about the main library and harnessing activities in 2017. I will talk about the financial performance of the library then talk about how we see the market and how we see the seismic demand outlook in 2018, a few words about the contract and imaging business focus post reorganization before moving to a summary.

So the main difference, one of the key differences between the old and the new organizational structure, is that historically, we have operated in a separate global service lines. While today, we have in the new structure one unified sales force, covering all the products and services in PGS, which means simplification and reduction of the number of touch points between PGS and the clients. Simple communication and it means that we can more easily capitalize on the full spectrum of capabilities in PGS.

We will see a centralized imaging organization with stronger focus on MultiClient. We will continue presence in the external market. But it will be smaller and more focused on the high-end, high value products. Finally, we will have a dedicated organization for building new MultiClient programs. We will maintain our earnings capacity on a significantly lower cost base and a more effective organization.

This shows the main library related activities in 2017. The first thing to notice is that there was a good geographical spread between these activities, which supports our strategy over many years to build a geographically diverse library. We had an active season in Europe, several programs in Norway and UK, including one in the Barents Sea. We had the most active season in Canada ever three 3D boats, and 1 2D boat. In Brazil, we started a new program in the Potiguar area late last year and this program continues also into this year. The same goes for a project we started late last year in Cote d'Ivoire. That also continues into this year.

In the Eastern Mediterranean, we have seen an awakening following the slow discovery in Egypt and we had a couple of good programs in Cyprus. Moving over to Asia Pacific, we imported a vessel into Indonesia and completed the North Madura MultiClient 3D last year and we expect to execute a few follow-on projects into this year, probably during the first half of 2018. We had the first MultiClient project ever in Malaysia, the Sabah project and perhaps a small correction to the Chairperson. We did not buy into this project. This is a joint venture between PGS, WesternGeco and TGS. And PGS had a substantial role in working of this project.

Finally, we had a small program in the Taranaki West basin in New Zealand. Also I'd like to mention a few reprocessing programs that we started. GeoStreamer Pure is a reprocessing of GeoStreamer footprint in Norway mainly, where we apply high-end imaging technology to develop reservoir-grade data, meaning data that the oil companies can use in the field development stage.

We have a massive program in the Santos Basin, the Santos Vision reprocessing. We have a reprocessing ongoing in Congo in preparation for the Congo Shelf license round, and we also have a big 3D program, reprocessing program in Egypt. So all-in-all, a pretty active year. We added 68,000 square kilometers of new data to the library, which is the highest volume of new data we have seen for many years.

I now would like to focus on three areas where PGS has a particularly strong role. Starting with Norway and the UK, this is a world-class petroleum regime from a prospectivity point of view, but also from a regulator point of view. There are frequent licensing rounds. It's easy access to infrastructure. We have awards in [ph] pre-defined (01:38:33) areas that have been significantly expanded. The UK, the past couple of years has been fairly soft, but recently we have seen improved tax environment for development and production. And the UK Oil and Gas Authority are now actively driving exploration in the UK, and we see that resulting in increased demand for our MultiClient data. There is high turnover of acreage. It's a very active market for asset and company sales, and new company entrants. We sold to 50 clients in 2017, so this is really a great MultiClient market.

One thing to note is our GeoStreamer footprint. Our GeoStreamer technology enables us not only to serve the exploration needs of the companies, but also projects that move into the field development and production stage. We now have a footprint of approximately 140,000 square kilometers. Also important that being a vessel owner, we have the ability to cover license work, but also to expand this – extend this into neighboring acreage, very effectively, thereby we can cover both license work and new data very effectively under one business model. And this has been a very successful strategy year in and year out in Norway, in particular.

Another interesting area is Brazil. Brazil has struggled for a few years. But we now see increased activity level following significant improvements in the operating conditions for international oil companies. There are no annual license rounds in what is world-class petroleum regime in terms of prospectivity.

There is the introduction of permanent offer areas in 2018, which is relinquished fields and blocks not awarded in earlier license rounds. Petrobras is handing off acreage, and we see increasing farm-in activity between the international players. PGS has been present in Brazil for more than 20 years, and over these 20 years, we have had the possibility to build a unique MultiClient footprint.

There were significant block awards on PGS data in 2017. We sold to 10 operators, and this is also a true MultiClient market with growing data demands from new entrants. We also see that new imaging technology adds good value to existing library, and our 34,000 square kilometer reprocessing project in the Santos basin has been very well received by the industry. One thing to notice in Brazil, there is still one significant bottleneck remaining and that is environmental permits, whether you want to do seismic or drilling or any offshore activity. It can be lengthy. It can take up to several years to obtain a permit. This means that new seismic companies without footprint in Brazil, they will struggle to build up footprint quickly. And this is one of the key competitive advantages of PGS. We've been in Brazil for more than 20 years. We have a significant footprint and this is something that puts us in a unique position here.

Finally Eastern Canada, we see continued growth, a very successful joint venture with TGS. 2017 marks the seventh consecutive season we had record activity, as I mentioned. Three 3D boats and one 2D boat throughout the season. And we now have a significant 2D library and we are starting to grow a significant 3D footprint as well. There was good interest for the 2018 call for bids that I've marked the polygons in black here which is the call for bid area and we have both 2D and 3D data covering these blocks. Also I'd like to mention that the 2017 call for bids in Labrador South was delayed waiting on completion of the Labrador SEA Update. Now this affected to some degree our sales in 2017 but we [ph] don't (01:42:46) expect that this bid round will occur in 2019. But in summary, there is still significant exploration interest in this area.

So, in sum, we are pretty pleased about the activity level in 2017. We added a lot of data in very attractive regions to our library. Then talk a little bit about the financial performance of our library and what you see here is how our revenues in 2017 were spread in the client space and also between the different geographies. You can see to the left here that there were seven clients buying for more than US$25 million worth of data. And for all of this, there were multiple transactions. There were 18 clients buying for between $5 million and $25 million and 70 clients buying for less than $5 million. So, a very solid strong client base, approximately 100 clients and a good spread between them.

Looking at the revenue distribution between geographies, Europe has been in the lead for the past couple of years, 37%, closely followed by North America and South America. We had reasonably good activity in Asia Pacific, and as mentioned, this is largely driven by the Sabah project. We built significant footprint and we had quite strong interest from some of the major international oil companies present in this area.

Africa Mediterranean a solid 80%. I should say that the main driver behind that was actually Eastern Mediterranean. There was a lot of interest in our MultiClient data in Eastern Mediterranean. While Africa has been somewhat slower the past couple of years compared to what we used to see five, six, seven years ago. So all-in-all, we think there was a very good spread between clients and we have a very good spread geographically, which again supports our strategy of having a geographically diverse library.

So, a little bit of a peer comparison. What you see on the top here, we have shown this graph before, the peer in this case being the four largest MultiClient players, year-end 2017 PGS had 18% of the peer group book value, we had 25% of the peer group revenues, and we had 21% of the cash investments, so a pretty healthy relative distribution between these three parameters. On the bottom, you see a familiar graph, it's the revenues to the left split between late sales and prefunding, together with our prefunding percentage. And the bottom-right shows our total revenues, cash investments and the ratio of revenues to cash investment. I think the point with these bottom graphs is to show again that we have a very stable library that performs in a stable way, year in and year out. And again, we believe this goes back to having a geographically diverse library, where a temporary slowdown in one area or one country will have less effect.

I know that a lot of you are focusing on our late sales, and I also know that some of you commented that our late sales in Q4 was a bit lower than expected. But I think it's worth noting that there was no consistent industry definition of late sales and prefunding. Different players have different definitions. And the PGS definition, late sales revenues are from delivery of the final data, and prefunding is anything before that.

So what we show you here in this graph, the bottom green bars here are what we call the late prefunding, and late prefunding being new sales that we have done in the processing stage, i.e. from one acquisition is complete until final delivery of data. Many companies would actually [ph] denote this later (01:46:39). And what you can see here is the past four years, we have had a revenue stream in the late prefunding stage of approximately US$100 million. So a pretty significant portion of our revenues are actually from this late prefunding stage. So I think it's worth thinking about this when you do this comparison between the different players.

So I'll do another comparison, which is the revenues to investments. The top graph shows the revenues to cash investments as reported by the different companies. And the same holds here as for prefunding and late sales, there is no consistent industry definition of MultiClient cash investments. What this means that in the top graph, you cannot compare in absolute terms between the players but you can compare in relative terms the year-to-year variation for each player. And the point with this graph again is just to demonstrate that we have a fairly stable performing library and we have a ratio that is gradually increasing over the past couple of years, which I believe should be a good thing.

Then on the bottom graph, we show another comparison and this is a comparison of revenues to full capitalized cost. Full capitalized cost being cost capitalized to the library less interest. And here we compare to the largest asset light MultiClient player, so I'll leave it to the audience to figure out who company A is. But again I think that the comparison is quite favorably also from that point of view. So, we conclude that we have a library with strong, stable performance.

I'll then move to the demand outlook, the way we see it for 2018. And this is the demand outlook for the Atlantic Margins and the Mediterranean. There's quite a lot of detail here. I'm not going into all of these details. We also tried to give an indication of the dominant business model whether it's a MultiClient, a contract or both type of market.

For 2018, we expect that Norway, UK, Eastern Canada and Brazil will continue to be active markets. These are largely MultiClient markets, but Norway, UK, and Brazil, we also see quite significant 4D activities coming up. In Europe, the majority of the 4D projects we see right now will be in the UK side. Similarly, we also see 4D projects coming up in West Africa and PGS is actually involved as we speak in a few of these.

Talking about the West Africa, I mentioned that we have seen some sort of a dormant region for a while. It seems like it's waking up. This is driven by considerable license round activity. It's of course driven by a more stable oil price regime. And there is also a backlog of seismic that the oil companies need in order to be able to explore this. So, West Africa we think is going to – we are going to see some increased activity levels.

In Eastern Mediterranean, renewed interest on the back of the Zohr discovery. There are license round activity in Greece, in Montenegro, in Lebanon and in Egypt that would drive activity further, and there are also some interesting wells going down in Cyprus, drilling on some Zohr analogues in Cyprus, mostly a MultiClient market but there will also be some contract opportunities for instance in Egypt.

So in sum, we see this as an attractive market. It will be license round-driven activity that will be 4D programs and there will be exploration-driven MultiClient activities as well. You will also find that the dominant part of the PGS fleet is located in this part of the world, as a result of this being what we see as the most attractive markets.

Looking at the Eastern Hemisphere, the situation is a bit different. This is a weaker market, the arenas vary annually, and there are quite some regulatory and political challenges. Myanmar, we expect the contract activity level similar to 2017. In India, we have seen contract demand about two vessels per season and we expect this to continue. There's a new national plan for exploration that might encourage further activity level, increased activity level going forward potentially.

In Malaysia, we expect stable contract activity also in 2018, and as we have talked about we have the MultiClient activity for the first time through the Sabah program. There will be activity supported by the 2018 bid rounds and there will be a farm-in activity that may further spark interest in the data that we have already. There might be a possible extension of the Sabah MultiClient concept to other areas.

Indonesia, I mentioned that we have a vessel imported in Indonesia and we have some follow-on programs that we will execute. Indonesia is a country that is quite challenging when it comes to import again, but once we have a vessel in contrary or in a good position, there is quite some interest in MultiClient data. Papua New Guinea, new 3D seismic demand following 2017 block awards. This could be both a MultiClient and a contract market in 2018. Australia, we see little interest in Australia from the PGS point of view.

Then move to take a look at the contract business in a historical context. I think you have seen these curves before, but to repeat the bottom curve here in gray, is the dollar value of bids that we receive and respond to in PGS. It is not what has been awarded to us, but it is what we [ph] tender on (01:52:40).

And the top curve is the sum of the bids and what we call risk-weighted leads. Leads being project we believe will come to fruition but have not yet made it to the bid stage, obviously a dramatic fall in dollar value from 2012, 2013, which reflects a combination of low contract rates and low demand.

If you look at the leads curve, it is recently in a somewhat rising trend, which may indicate – it's an early indicator. It might indicate that there is some gradual improvements in the market. The bid curve is more of a lagging indicator. So we expect to start to see some increase in the bid curve as well but it's more like a lagging indicator. The leads curve is more a leading indicator.

The bottom curve, it's the volume of acquired 3D seismic. This is actually the sum of both contract and MultiClient. And you can see a pretty significant drop in the curve. And in 2017, the total volume of acquired 3D is actually below 300,000 square kilometers, which is the lowest number we have seen for many, many years. It's interesting also to reflect on [ph] and Olav showed (01:53:56) that there was an increase in seismic spending in 2017. While if you look at the volume of new data, it was very low. This probably points to MultiClient being a significant part of the spending patterns in the oil companies.

And then if we look at how the market is split between MultiClient and contract, this is a curve that shows the split on new acquisition in terms of thousands of square kilometers, obviously a rising trend on the MultiClient side. In 2017, we estimate that about 55% of all new acquisition was MultiClient, and we believe that MultiClient will continue to be the preferred business model.

I just repeat [indiscernible] (01:54:39) what has been said many times that we assume a flat market in the planning. But we do see some gradual improvements or signs that indicate the market might be slightly better than that. We expect to deploy more than 50% of the 2018 PGS 3D fleet in MultiClient. And then something that we have talked about a few times, we see that there is greater overlap between MultiClient and contract projects. One of the drivers behind that is we see some oil companies trying to procure what typically would be a contract project under a MultiClient business model. We don't jump on those opportunities every time, and sometimes that might be a bad idea. But in an area like Norway that I talked about, where you have the possibility to expand license work programs into open acreage in the neighborhood, you get a very effective survey, you can create a lot of value and we have been very successful doing that. So that is one advantage of being a vessel owner, having full control of your capabilities and your vessel capacity. This has been very successful in Norway, in the UK, in Eastern Canada and also in Brazil. So there are quite a few places where this actually is a good thing for us, but we don't jump on everything.

Then a few words about the marine contract post reorganization. We say here that the new PGS structure combined with a flexible fleet plan will enable improved vessel scheduling. Now, the flexible fleet plan means that we have the ability to very quickly deploy and retrieve capacity according to demand and take the full benefit of the cost. That is a change. We also have a sales force that covers all the product lines and we have a much closer focus on the vessel scheduling. So, we are quite confident that we will be able to deploy the fleet in 2018 much more effectively than what we saw in 2017. We will also be more focused in the contract market, and we will target projects that are aligned to our GeoStreamer technology, our imaging capabilities, and our superior fleet. This also means that there may be project that we decide to not bid if they don't fit this bill. But one class of projects that really fit this bill is 4D.

We see a significant growth in 4D from 2016 to 2017. The chairperson here mentioned that the increase from 2017 to 2018, it wasn't as big as from 2016 to 2017. If you go back one year and look at the same curve you will see that the 2017 estimate was quite a bit lower than what actually came to fruition. So, we have probably been a bit careful in terms of predicting 2018 here, but we see that the most active markets will be the UK, it will be Brazil and it will be West Africa. And these projects only involve towed streamer projects. So, 4D project will be a core target for PGS Contract business, and there was a clear need in the oil industry to get more [ph] oil to the (01:57:51) existing reservoirs. We were going to show all these curves demonstrating the challenge we have to find new reserves. So we are quite convinced that 4D- and reservoir-oriented seismic will increase. This is a good business for PGS. We have a very versatile Ramform fleet. We have multi-component streamer on all the vessels. We have steerable sources and steerable streamers and we have a unique GeoStreamer-based Imaging technology that further will strengthen this product.

Then we had the Imaging post-reorganization. We will reduce or we have reduced the Imaging presence and we have adapted the Imaging business to the market conditions. We will now operate out of three main hubs: Oslo, Houston and London. And we have significantly scaled down our presence in the more remote offices. We are also reducing our global compute hub from three to two, and these two hubs are going to serve all the main centers.

As mentioned before, there will be more capacity focused on internal MultiClient projects. And in the external market, we will, as for the contract business, be more focused. And one key focus here as well as on the acquisition side is to grow the presence in the 4D and reservoir market. It fits very well with our technology from acquisition through to Imaging. We will also bring our unique GeoStreamer-based imaging technology to the ocean bottom market. It is a market that is growing and we see some significant opportunity from the imaging point of view. And finally 2D processing will no longer be a focus area for PGS.

So, this brings me to the summary. We saw 2017 delivering strong enhancements to our MultiClient library. We added a data volume of 68,000 squares of 3D, which is the largest we have had for many, many years. We have a geographically diverse library that continues a very stable and robust performance. The contract business will become better aligned with our GeoStreamer technology, our Imaging capabilities and fleet and 4D projects will be key target. Our unique GeoStreamer-based Imaging technology will be directed also on MultiClient activities and the 4D- and reservoir-oriented external market. And finally, we have a more effective organizational structure that will enable us to capture the full spectrum of capabilities of PGS. So with that, I thank you for your attention.

Good morning to all of you. My name is Per Arild Reksnes and I'm heading operations and technology. In my talk, I'll cover the purpose of the operations and technology organization, our safety and vessel performance. I'll discuss the value of having a modern fleet, our streamer investment needs for the coming two years, the focus of our technology development and end with a summary.

Operations and technology comprises broadly three areas. The first one is projects. We have one unified project team, managing all our acquisition projects from planning and bidding, to execution and to completion. This team has full accountability for the execution and the result of our acquisition projects. It also is one single point of contact between the customer and PGS during our acquisition projects. Operations and technology also contain all the needed resources to support our acquisition projects, to maintain and develop the fleet and to drive and promote safety and efficiency. The last part of operations and technology is our geoscience and engineering department where we develop new technology with strong differentiation. And this covers everything from acquisition technology to imaging technology.

Safety is a core value in PGS. When we do operations, we do our best to protect our crews, the assets and the environment. On the graph, you can see two different curves. The top most, the light blue one is the total recorded case frequency. So, you can see it has come quite significantly down from 2011 to 2017. The bottom curve is the lost time incident frequency. And you can see that it has stabilized at a very low number from 2014 to 2017. So, this graph shows you that our safety performance is among the industry leaders. It's also very good for me to conclude that we have been able to maintain safe performance also during demanding reorganization.

This slide shows you two graphs, it's about the fleet's performance. At the top, you can see the downtime and that's the total downtime of the fleet. That's the sum of technical downtime and maritime downtime.

Over the last four years, we have stabilized on around 2.5% of total downtime, which is very little. The bottom graph shows you performance actually over the last 20 years from 1997 to 2017, and you can see that we have stabilized there on a very, very high number of around 95%.

And you may recall that performance is the actual production of seismic, measured in percent of the available production time. What this gives to PGS is consistent operating strength in all parts of a cycle. We have the same performance, if it's a very difficult low point in the cycle or at the peak. Here, you see eight nice pictures of our vessels. It's the eight vessels that comprise our active fleet. All these vessels are fully equipped at all times to do seismic. But during the low season, as has been mentioned a couple of times before, we intend to only run six of these vessels to avoid unattractive projects.

During the reorganization, we have reduced the cost base of the fleet to six vessels. This means, we will have to use contracted crew or part time crew for the additional two vessels and this is providing us a flexible element to our cost base. We can still assure quality with the two additional vessels, because PGS employees are supervising the work we do and a lot of the contractors that we will use are previous PGS employees.

You see two columns here on the slide, in light blue, it is the age of the vessels in our active fleet and in the dark blue greenish colors, you see the standard streamer count that we have on our vessels. That means that the standard equipment for the Titan-class is 16 streamers, for the S-class, it's 14, for conventional vessel, it is 12. This means that we of course can do more with the Titan-class vessels. They have a maximum towing capacity of 24 streamers and the S-class has actually 22 streamers.

When we measured the age of the active fleet, then it was five years in December last year. This is the youngest fleet out there, and the average streamer count that we tow with our vessel is 14.5 streamers, which is 20% or so above the average of the industry.

When PGS took delivery of the Ramform Hyperion March last year, it completed the build of the Titan-class vessels. We had four Titan-class vessels delivered from 2013 to 2017, all at or below budget and at agreed time. Our customers have really embraced the Titan vessels. And after the first time a major international company used the Ramform Titan, they stated this is a very good, fabulous seismic vessel. And we could only agree.

Now we have invested quite a lot in high capacity vessel, so a good question to ask is are we using the capabilities of the fleet? And you can see here on the top most graph, the number of projects we have done and the streamer count for these projects from 2013 to 2017. Starting at the bottom, you see that six streamer projects basically faded out in 2013 that 8 streamer and 10 streamer projects have decreased significantly from 2013 to 2017, and basically those projects are wide tow projects where we have a large distance between the streamers of maybe 150 meters or 200 meters.

And then if you move up, you see at the top, the little blue field there is the one 18 streamer project we have done, but below there are two interesting fields in grey, they show the number of 14 and 16 streamer projects that we have done. And you will see of course that the number of 16 streamer projects have increased significantly from 2013 to 2017. And if you measure in area how many square – or the percentage of square kilometers we have done with various streamer configuration, you see that for 2017 at the bottom, we did 29% with 16 streamer configuration, 35% with 14 streamer, meaning that close to two-thirds of all the projects we did were conducted with more than 14 streamers or 14 streamers. So, the answer to my rhetorical question is yes, we are able to utilize the capabilities of the fleet we have invested in.

But the Titan-class is our biggest investment, so I would like to use the next three slides to talk about the benefit of having the Titan-class, and I'll start with safety and maintenance.

These vessels have really good and working environment for our crew. They have good ergonomics all over the vessels. There is very little manual handling of goods and equipment. They are very stable in adverse weather, giving the crew a very nice place to live and work.

In addition, these vessels are world-leading on propulsion and power generation. There are three independent propellers, and you can see the propellers there on the Titan-class at the bottom of this slide, and they are in three independent compartments. And these vessels are actually fully operational with two propellers. We also have six independent engines in two independent engine rooms. The vessels are fully operational with one engine room.

So what this gives us is a unique opportunity to do heavy maintenance while we are in production. This means higher uptime and less time in port, less time at the shipyards.

I'll also give you one example of how these vessels have been digitalized. We are doing condition and performance monitoring of the engines and mechanical equipment, basically recording and analyzing a wealth of data from the engines and mechanical equipment. Together with the high degree of redundancy that we have, we can actually optimize the maintenance and reducing the cost of maintenance and increase operational safety.

So, in short, Ramform Titan-class vessels are very safe workplace and we have significant reduction in maintenance costs

Of course, we built these vessels to acquire seismic data and efficiency as a key parameter for good seismic work. The Titan-class vessels have the highest towing capacity of all the seismic vessels in the world. In addition, the back decks make it possible to deploy and retrieve a high number of streamers in short time.

The high stability in bad weather that I mentioned also allows us to optimize production in areas where there are short production windows because of, for instance, weather, seasonal variation or fishing. So, this is good.

We also have very high fuel capacity. This avoids – enables us to avoid fueling in environmentally sensitive areas or refueling at all during shorter projects.

The Titan-class vessels also have twice the work boat capacity of other vessels. This means we can effectively maintain and repair all the gear we are towing behind the vessels when we need it.

Here, I have plotted the PGS vessels in a space defined by streamer separation along the Y axis and number of streamers along the X axis. And you can see then typically how the need of the various types of surveys from the oil companies fit into these graphs. Basically, our fleet is covering all the needs of the oil companies when it comes to seismic data acquisition.

Our experience show that the Ramform Titan-class and the Ramform S-class vessels are superior for large exploration surveys, and they are also superior for any survey with high stream account. And they are competitive for all type of 4D surveys because of their flexibility and also for conventional 3D surveys.

Our conventional vessels are competitive for both exploration 3Ds and 4D surveys. This gives us reduced operational risk and it gives high productivity for PGS and for our customers.

Our active fleet comprises eight vessels as I said. This fleet is fully equipped with GeoStreamers that we have produced from 2008 to 2018. We have now implemented measures extending the technical life of our streamers to 10 years.

And then, with the streamers from the cold-stacked vessel, Ramform Vanguard, the extended life of GeoStreamers give us a great position. We do not need new steamers before 2020. And obviously, this is quite beneficial for the strategic focus we have on minimizing CapEx during the next years.

So to technology development, PGS will continue to develop new technology, but we have scaled down the CapEx in reflection of the difficult market conditions that we had experienced over the last years. Our new development efforts will be focused on differentiating technology that enables customers to create a more accurate subsurface images.

Out of our big portfolio of technology programs, I have selected one example here. You can see two images of seismic. They are from one of our MultiClient surveys in the Gulf of Mexico, the [ph] Crystal Sea (02:16:12). At the top, you can see a horizontal cross-section from a 3D dataset, generated by conventional migration, and you will see it's a bit blurry.

The lower section is generated using one of our most advanced imaging technologies called Least-Squares Migration, and this is unique because it can cope with all the complexities of the subsurface or the complexities of the earth and also compensate for some of the shortcomings or compromises we have to do when we acquire seismic data. And what you see is that this new technology gives us a clear image of the subsurface. And to our customers, that is worth a lot when they are drilling expensive wells.

Lastly, PGS will, in the future, be more open for cooperation on technology development within selected technology areas to lower the cost to market of new technology.

To summarize, the reorganization that we have done has reduced and simplified our organization, but it has increased accountability. It has also given us a significantly lower cost base, but with the same production capabilities. The strong safety culture that we have established in PGS continues to yield positive results.

The best-in-class performance of our fleet ensures that we have a consistent operating strength at every point in the cycle. Our active fleet is the youngest and most productive fleet in the seismic industry. We will have very low streamer CapEx needs for 2018 and 2019. We will continue to develop competitive technology also in the future.

So, to conclude, operations and technology, we remain dedicated to safety and delivery. Thank you.

Thank you, Per Arild and Sverre. I will now to give some concluding remarks. We have, through these sessions, tried to give you a picture and impression of what PGS stands for today, how we have positioned ourselves and what our direction going forward will be. And I've tried in this slide to highlight a few of why – the answers to why we looked the way we are. Why are we a fully integrated marine seismic company?

To do that, I would like to take a step back because I showed you early on in this presentation a slide that said that we, last year – national oil and gas industry had found less oil than any of the years from 1947 until today.

Behind that, there are two important facts. One is that the international oil and gas industry exploration success rate is on its way down. That means we have less successful wells. For each successful well we have, we find less oil. If we're going to meet this demand that I have explained to you will come in the future years, we, as an industry, have to solve this. And we believe in PGS that we are one of the key players to solve this.

If you're going to solve this, it starts with seismic. It starts with seismic and it starts with technology. So, we believe through integration of acquisition services, imaging services and R&D, we can use our seismic imaging, we can improve the seismic image, we can use new technology going forward to assist in solving this critical question for the international oil and gas companies of the world or the industry. And that is why we still focus on quality.

We believe this will yield superior returns to a pure cost approach going forward, and obviously now I'm looking a bit further right there.

Secondly, reliability becomes more and more important for our oil companies, for our customers. We have full control of our fleet. We experience everyday new challenges which we solve, and therefore we improve our operational excellence, which is important to our clients. We can deliver the project on time without HSEQ problems, which are superior [ph] than others (02:21:51). That is important for us, it's important for our people, and it's so important to our clients.

And then, we believe in – that this will pull us into profitability in the years to come. And obviously, what we have told you today about centralizing, streamlining, reducing cost will obviously help over here.

So, that is a little summary of why we are what we are.

So, therefore, we believe we are positioned to take advantage of current and future opportunities with our current operating model: being smaller, simpler, more flexible. I repeat that in the near term, in 2018, cost and cash flow will be top priorities. And we believe that planning for a flat market is prudent, conservative in the situation we are today. But we clearly believe that we are on a market recovery and we'll see whether we get any benefit of that in 2018 or whether it comes later.

But, obviously, as you will have understood from what we are saying, we see early indications that that may happen and we probably believe that we have a stronger market in front of us. But belief is something else, so we plan for a flat market. That's why we say we are re-focused, we are re-energized to capitalize on market opportunities both in 2018 and going forward.

So that concludes our presentation. And now, I believe we have a Q&A session. So I guess all of us will sit up there.

Yeah. Thank you. I think I will just start with a couple of question from the web. The first from Hamish Clegg at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. He says, how should we read the Schlumberger announcement? Schlumberger just giving up, and does this mean the industry will never return to previous levels? Can you talk how you're positioned in the upcoming licenses rounds in Brazil and Mexico, and where do you see the main opportunities going forward? For example, the new regime in Angola, how many vessels do you expect to come back from stacking in 2018 and 2019?

Obviously a lot of questions, but I'll try to address a few of them. I can take the first and the last, I guess, if I remember the last one.

Let me take the last one first then. No, I don't expect any vessels to come back from cold stacking, if that was the answer. Obviously, we have two vessels as we have said now in warm stack in Q1, which we expect to bring back into the market in Q2 and Q3. But in terms of vessels being cold-stacked, whether it's ours or competitors, I don't expect that to come back in 2018.

Probably, you're thinking of your warm-stacked.

Yes. Then, we believe we will operate eight vessels in Q2 and Q3.

Now, the Schlumberger announcement. Obviously, Schlumberger is a big company and what they decide to do with their WesternGeco business and why they have done that is difficult for me to speculate in. We believe that there is a healthy future for the seismic industry going forward, and I guess I can relate to what I concluded here. I mean, seismic imaging and all the technology around seismic images is the key to improve the success rate for exploration offshore.

We have a very good imaging organization. We have the best data in our library and we have the best technology. And we have – although we are very, very strongly focused on cash – decided to continue to do R&D. That's exactly because we believe we have a role to play in this area. So, Schlumberger, we'll have to do what they feel is right and then we will address the markets, which we believe will be healthy going forward.

So that's first and last, I think.

Yeah.

And then you could take...

I can take a couple of those in the middle. I believe you asked first about Mexico.

Brazil and Mexico.

Brazil and Mexico, yeah. Let's start with Mexico. There is license-round activity in Mexico this year, but there is also a lot of data that have been acquired in Mexico. So we believe that the main activity in 2018 will be reprocessing rather the new seismic, and used seismic, we might see that a little bit further out in time.

PGS has a limited investment in Mexico, so we believe that the Mexican market will have little impact on our revenues in 2018.

In Brazil, it's a very different story. We have an excellent position. We have data that covered license rounds in 2017, and we also have data that will cover the license rounds in 2018 and 2019. We have an ongoing program right now and we have more programs in the planning with a secured pre-funding. So I think that Brazil will be a very active market and we have a very unique position in Brazil.

You also talked about Angola. Angola has been a little bit [ph] at halt, but (02:27:33) we see increased activity level. I mentioned 4Ds. We are in hold in a couple other 4Ds already in Angola. We have vessels in country. We also expect that there will be further license round activity later in 2018 that will drive activity somewhat.

So that was a quick comment on those three countries.

Thank you. And there is one from Goldman Sachs, Maria-Laura Adurno. Reverting back to your financial presentation, you mentioned that delivery in 2018 financial target should position PGS to refinance well in advance of 2020 maturities. I have the following two questions. One, what are the option that you are currently assessing? And the second one, in second half 2017, you had mentioned that the [indiscernible] (02:28:31) was ruled out. Is it still the case?

I will be short on that. In a way, there are several options available for a refinancing and I think it's the wrong time to go into which are the most relevant ones. On the second part of the question, that's still a fact.

Thank you. Question from the audience?

Christopher in Carnegie. Two questions. The seismic fleet in 2017 increased while you showed a slide that the production of seismic fell. So, average productivity per vessel declined last year. Could you share your thoughts why you believe that was the case?

Yeah. I think that's down to what we focused on a little bit when we talked about the flat market, namely that there was quite a bit of idle time in the fleet last year and which we believe we can improve on this year. So I would guess that is the main explanation for that.

And my second question is if you take the full MultiClient investments this year of $340 million, that is below your guidance on MultiClient amortization of roughly $400 million. So you expect a book value of your MultiClient library to decline during 2018. Is it fair to assume that you lowered your sales assumptions for MultiClient as you amortize more than you invest?

I'm not sure I follow the question fully. We are in a period where we apply relatively conservative approach to amortization of the library and particularly so at least if you look at history on the pre-funding revenues that we generate.

So, it is true that we may see a reduction on the book value throughout the year and then that is just in a way – the increased amortization is partly dependent on, in a way, the amount of pre-funding revenues we generate next year, which where we amortize based on the revenues generated. So you can sort of make various prophecies around what the implicits, if there is an implicit story at all in a way higher pre-funding revenues would drive higher amortization. And it is an indication that it would depend on how we ultimately end up in the mix between late sales, pre-funding revenues, and revenues in the percentage of completion phase for service.

Thank you.

Terje Fatnes.

Terje Fatnes from SEB. I would like to discuss a little bit on the market and customer behavior. If you look on the various customer groups, the national companies, the super majors and the smaller, where have you seen the biggest change in demand recently?

I think that the main driver behind increased demand, as you ask, has been among the largest international oil companies. That's the way we have seen it. That's the short – I mean, ExxonMobil, Shell, Total to mention three that have been particularly active.

And secondly would be on licensing rounds. You touched a bit on that on your presentation. But if we look for 2018 and you sum that all up, do you see more licensing activity in 2018 and 2019 than you have seen in 2017?

I think we see a slight increase compared to 2017. It's not massive, but a slight increase. And it also where in the world and in what basis these licenses rounds occur. So I think it's fair to say that there is a – it's a reasonable increase in license rounds in areas that are attracted to the oil industry. So, from that point of view, probably the license round-driven activity in 2018 is slightly better than 2017, to give you some sort of global summary the way we see it.

And the final question is on the total market. It looks to be up approximately 10% last year with an oil price of $65 to $70. If history repeats itself, the growth should basically accelerate in 2018 and 2019. So, why and what would prevent that from being a market that grows 20% this year?

I'm going to speculate in the growth rate. But just to point to an observation we see as well and as I've tried to communicate, one thing is what we plan for and another thing is what we see on the horizon.

I guess there is a little bit of, call it, lumpiness and we've seen some false starts, things like that in the last years. So, our slightly perhaps muted view is also related to the fact that we'd like to see this get into our backlog booking, on pricing, things like that before we go out and call an increase on the market. But it's clear that the oil price is very supportive and what you saw in the net 10% increase in the seismic market, while the year total E&P spending went down quite a bit and we expect that to change should also materialize in 2018 for the seismic market.

Okay. Much appreciated. Thank you.

Teodor?

Teodor Nilsen, SpareBank 1 Markets. Two questions on streamers. I like the slide you showed on the charters, you showed on slide 74 showing that you, on average, use more streamers per project. But have you seen any evidence of that more streamers per project generates more revenue per streamer or EBITDA per streamer or any measure around profitability?

And then, second question on streamers. You highlight on your kit that you will need some new streamers in 2020. How much investments are we talking about or how many streamer kits will you need in 2020?

I think our data are more around the cost of deploying streamers than revenues on the streamers. And we have seen that the cost of having many streamers in the water then, you get a cheaper – one streamer will be cheaper if you have high capacity vessel. So, the basic cost of doing it will be lower or is lower. And I think in our planning then, we will have one vessel equipped with new steamers I think in 2020 and then we will have a gradual replacement.

And we have earlier commented that full streamers set for us in the industry would probably be a cost around $50 million for a full set of [ph] NCE (02:37:06) equipment, et cetera, [indiscernible] (02:37:08).

So, should we assume that the need for new streamers will accelerate from 2020? Could we guess, too, in 2021 or would you like to help us?

I can guide you a little bit. What will happen is as we replace one streamers set in 2020, then the sections that are best in that set will then be distributing the remaining part of the fleet. So, no, I don't think you should calculate on an acceleration as like set by set. Maybe understand there is a more gradual replacement rate because of the fact that we used the better sections to then – for longer lives of oldest streamer sets.

Sorry. Of course, also if the market goes in the right direction, we might take out more vessels and then our need will change for new streamers. So, that's the thing that could accelerate, but otherwise we have a pretty consistent plan for actually 2020 to 2026.

Thank you. [indiscernible]

(02:38:20)

Yes. Just two short questions. Should we expect any through – well that you can receive any cash from the sale of the Cairo Processing Center or is it...?

I don't agree. We're not talking amounts which would be material to our financial position to put it that way. But obviously, we're doing it with a ambition to get some cash out of it, but it is not anyway larger scale of things. We're not talking about big money.

Okay. And then, a question to Sverre, which now is the big boss of the fleet, do you think that on the next six months that you will be in a position that you need to turn down potential MultiClient jobs and contract job because you don't have capacity?

Good question. We'll take that as it comes. If we enter into that situation, it's a luxury problem. That's all I have to say.

Okay. A couple of questions from the web. From [ph] Mattias Eklund (02:39:43), how do you see bunker costs impacting the financial results of PGS? Are you currently hedging your bunker purchases?

No. As a principal, we're not hedging bunker or fuel cost in a way over some time. There's a fairly inverse correlation between our market and, in a way, the negative effect of increasing cost.

So it is a kind of a natural hedge for us in the same way as our foreign currency exposure we do. So our near term, most of the contract work is entered into with a set fuel costs, so that will compensate it or provide a credit if there's a deviation for that.

The relationship between the oil price and our fuel cost is fairly simple. $1 per barrel higher oil price will, for a full year, approximately constitute $1 million on our fuel cost. So, it is pretty simple.

Okay. And one from Mick Pickup at Barclays. Historically, your business was a 50% EBITDA margin business. At trough, you have recorded above 40% EBITDA margins and costs are now going to be lower. Going forward, is it sensible to suggest that your business can become a 60%-plus business obviously depending on fleet allocation? Is that a level that has never been achieved before? Is that level consistent with your medium-term slight recovery view?

It is a little bit difficult to talk about EBITDA margins because performance-wise, it is obviously decided by how much we generate on our MultiClient business and how much we generate on our contract services. But they have vastly different EBITDA characteristics due to the capitalization of cost or the investments relating to MultiClient. So with – clearly EBITDA margins could be higher than 60% if there's more overweight of MultiClient activity. But other than that, I don't think it's possible for us to comment on this topic.

And a follow-up from me. So, obviously, a good reduction in cost base over the last couple of years. If you take your guidance, $575 million, as a starting point and you will have seven vessels on average working this year, there is some costs associated to the other segments like processing, et cetera. Can you give us an updated guidance in terms of your implied cash cost per vessel – OpEx per day per vessel? It still looks, to some extent, higher than your low-cost peers like Polarcus. Is there more potential to drive costs out of the vessels or the design of the Ramforms, et cetera, the reason for this being as low as it gets?

Well, I think it's fair to say that we are likely to have a higher cost per day than the low-cost providers just because we have a setup with R&D and we have a – yeah, we will pull with more cost because we offer more premium offering than they do. We are working all the time to make that as small as possible.

Clearly, that is very important because you cannot – it doesn't – as you understand, we don't say, well, we disregard that cost because we are premium. That has to be small as possible, but we will allow a certain differentiation.

And with respect to whether we can improve our cost base, yes, we can. And maybe, Per Arild, you want to highlight a little bit of that. But we have a problem working on reducing that cash cost per day on our vessels all the time continuously and in Per Arild's department.

I think we have done quite a lot now. So that will show up in our vessel costs for 2018. I think there are some more incremental improvements we can do, but there will be maybe a few more percents. But we have not more expensive crews on our vessels than all our low-cost competitors have, and we have a similar amount of people.

So, basically, operating the vessels are not significantly more expensive than our low-cost providers, but cost is a very interesting concept of course also in these days. But I think we will see a lot of cost improvement this year and – but we have taken out kind of the big part of what we can take out.

Okay. Should we take one more from the audience, if there is?

Hello. Iver Baatvik from ABN AMRO. I was wondering if you could touch a little bit upon technologies that could go take a part of your market. You talked highly about the 4D market being a market important to PGS. In particular technologies like ocean, bottom, cables or nodes, what role you see those playing? And what market share, you think, those could potentially take three to five years ahead or even next year?

Yeah. As you see, we see an increase in production seismic or 4D seismic as you see from our graphs on the streamers side. Ocean, bottom and nodes, obviously interesting, but still fairly small. We follow that market quite closely and there are currently many players in that market. They offer similar services.

So we will continue to follow that market quite closely and, yeah, observe how it grows our profitabilities over time and how it develops. And that's basically what I will say with that. We may or may not enter that market at some stage in some form or fashion but, yeah, we see this as an interesting market to follow, but still early days for ocean, bottom or nodes.

Again maybe a little bit follow-up on what you just discussed. For the contract business unit now, how far away are you from kind of EBITDA breakeven levels there? Can you give an indication on that?

No.

Thank you.

No. Prices are kind of still tough. As I said, they are – in what we see in Q1 this year versus Q1 last year, they are slightly up. But other than that, I think I'll be careful.

And so, just on flat pricing then, it would not make sense to invest in any new seismic equipment, right?

That's true.

Yeah. Thank you. I think the lunch is getting cold if we don't leave now. So, thank you for all your questions also on the web. Good to hear that you focus that much on your improvement efforts. Hope that we will see some market recover. But until then, that's nothing you could do about it. So, keep on. Thank you.

Thanks, everyone.