Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Amy Wong — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Asad Farid — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Morten Nystrøm — Analyst, Nordea Bank Norge ASA (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's First Quarter 2015 Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, Chief Executive Officer; Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer; and Rune Olav Pedersen, General Counsel and Senior Vice President Communications and Marketing. At today's call management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our web page and then open the line for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in PGS Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to the CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård. And good afternoon and good morning, everyone. I will quickly just review the highlights of the quarter. An EBITDA of $124.8 million, mainly driven by a relatively strong MultiClient sales of $143.3 million, of which $56.7 million were late sales, a strong cash generation in the quarter leading to a strengthening of the liquidity reserve to US$558.9 million.

We had a weak utilization in the quarter that impacted the financial performance negatively, including a negative influence on the marine contract EBIT margin. In very short terms, you could say we bid too high for too long in Q4 and had problems finding sufficient work to put into the boats when we lost these opportunities. That has now been adjusted for and, as you will see on the next slide I refer to, the outlook is much better when it comes to utilization.

Given the outlook that we will revert to when it comes to bid activity, we have decided to cold stack Ramform Explorer and Ramform Challenger from end of the North Sea season, and at least for the next six quarters the way we see the market today. Bearing in mind that we have two new builds coming to us during next year, so we can do some smooth transfers of equipment and crew, and optimize both CapEx and operational costs and improve our productivity, obviously on average. The other and significant highlight for the quarter is that we have substantially increased our target when it comes to cost savings, 2015 over 2014, where we now target a reduction in cost of $220 million, which is close to 20% down from the year before. With all these things in mind we reiterate our 2015 guidance, bearing in mind that the market still carries quite a lot of uncertainty for the year.

We will move to slide number five just to quickly review the order book which, at the end of the quarter, was $394 million, which is about 4% down from the quarter before, so basically flattish. Vessel booking three weeks later, April 21 was 95% for Q2; 80% for Q3; 30% for Q4; and 15% for Q1. And as you can see, more and more the focus now is directed towards filling up the coming Q4/Q1 season.

We see that we benefit quite a lot from the GeoStreamer technology, both in terms of winning work and in terms of securing good pre-funding for the MultiClient project we do. And not the least, the effect of the cost cutting gives us a very competitive position to bid from and has also contributed to enhancing our bid success rate.

And with that I hand over to Gottfred Langseth that will take us through the highlights of the numbers.

Thank you. I will start on slide number seven, statement of operations. Revenues for the quarter $251.1 million, that's 14% down from Q1 2014. The reduction is driven by the low vessel utilization in the quarter and we had, for the first quarter, as reported a while back, 63% active time only; in addition, lower pricing on our contract work.

EBITDA, $124.8 million which is 10% down. Operating profit was $10.9 million. Net financial items for the quarter was a cost of $20.8 million, which includes a loss from the associated company Azimuth Ltd., as well as a foreign currency loss of $4.7 million primarily as a result of the US dollar strengthening against the Brazilian real.

We had a pre-tax loss of $10 million. Despite the pre-tax loss, we had a tax expense in the quarter of $9.5 million. That is driven by partly currency fluctuations; and partly local taxes in the countries where we do project; and withholding taxes where we, in the current market, do not achieve a full credit in taxable profits in Norway or U.K. Net income for the quarter was a negative $19.5 million.

I then move to slide number nine, operational highlights. We had marine contract revenues of $68.8 million in the quarter and a negative EBIT margin of 40%. The low revenues are due to, as mentioned, low utilization of vessels and lower pricing. Most of the negative margin is due to standby cost incurred on vessels in the quarter, which weighs in quite heavily in the calculation of margin when divided by a low revenue number.

Total MultiClient revenues were $143.3 million. Out of this, $86.6 million of pre-funding, which is relatively strong and represents a pre-funding rate of 135% of capitalized cash cost. Pre-funding revenues were driven by projects in Asia Pacific and Africa. Late sales revenues was $56.7 million, which a robust performance in the challenging market circumstances. Late sales were dominated by sales from our library in Europe.

I then move to slide number 13, so some way down, Group cost focus delivers results. The quarterly cost development is very strong and driven by substantial cost reductions from our cost savings initiatives; and also a strong U.S. dollar, which then benefits our cost base and low fuel prices.

On top of this, cost in the first quarter ended lower than the trend line, due to primarily lower activity, which makes us incur less project-related costs including fuel consumption; some deferral of costs to match the project revenues; and a smaller one-off effect from changes in benefit plans.

With the higher fleet utilization in the second quarter, we expect approximately 80% active time in the second quarter; the reported costs are expected to increase by approximately $40 million; still materially below the cost levels we saw during the quarters of 2014.

Moving to the next slide, number 14, proactive cost reductions continue in 2015. The slide summarizes the expected reduction of total cash cost from the full-year 2014 to the full-year 2015. We now expect cash cost to be reduced by approximately $220 million compared to 2014. This is significantly more than what we last or previously communicated, where we had an estimate of $150 million. The increase is due to the planned stacking of Ramform Explorer and Ramform Challenger; foreign exchange movements; more staff reductions; and a reduction of variable project costs.

I should mention that, anyway, both the currency rates and fuel price is subject to variations. The illustration is based on Norwegian krone to U.S. dollar exchange rate of NOK 8 today. It is following a strengthening of the krone over the last few days. It is somewhat lower than that, which would – if I use today's market prices for fuel and today's exchange rates, these two items would have [ph] $10 million to $20 million lower effects (11:12) for 2015.

I then move on to slide 16, balance sheet key numbers. The balance sheet position is strong. We have a liquidity reserve end Q1 of $559 million. In addition, we have committed an undrawn funding to cover the remaining yard installments for the new builds.

If you look at the table on this slide, you will see that the net interest-bearing debt is down quite significantly, almost $100 million from the start of the quarter and now stands at $955.9 million. And the driver for that is, obviously, the strong cash flow that we reported in the first quarter.

With that, I will give the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you, we go to slide 19 and I thought we will finish off the presentation with some reflections on the markets. We still see a very cautious spending pattern among oil companies, and we see that continue to impact seismic demand. There is relatively low visibility when it comes to bid opportunities in all regions and very low prices for contract work. It seems like they have stabilized at a very low level. And with this balance in mind, we still see the need for further capacity to be taken out to balance the market and thus our action when it comes to Ramform Explorer and Ramform Challenger. Given the leads we see in the pipeline, we do expect the weak market to continue well into 2016.

Slide number 20 underlines what I've just said by looking at the curves for leads and bids. Of course, some bids have been awarded and thus, also, the lead curve has been reduced. The lead curve is the sum of leads and bids. Also, there is the reflection, obviously, that the unit price is low, as these curves are in dollars. There is also an element of more contract work in the converted to MultiClient, of course. But all of these things does not take away the fact that the market and the bid activity is low. And despite that, as you've seen from the bookings, we have been quite successful in booking up the capacity for the next two quarters, this and the next quarter.

Then I will skip a few slides, and move straight to the concluding slide, slide 25, where we just sum up saying we are well positioned to navigate through the challenging market. This is something we have prepared for and anticipate that that down cycles can come. We have a robust balance sheet, and we have spent a lot of efforts to preposition with a robust balance sheet. We have no debt maturities before 2018. We are continuing to reduce cost for the fourth year in a row, and, of course, we're increasing strength every year. We have, thereby, cost-effective operations both from a cost and productivity angle. And we continue to improve productivity by taking in newer and more productive vessels.

We have an attractive MultiClient library and we have had satisfactory contract bid success rate recently competitively positioned to perform through the cycle. And with that, I hand over to Bård Stenberg for questions. Operator can you help us with the Q&A session?

Thank you sir. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question.

Good afternoon. It's Amy Wong here calling from UBS. I had a couple of questions. The first one is, can you remind us of what MultiClient programs you will be focusing over the next few quarters? And you mentioned that the pre-funding level is expected to come down in Q2 due to project mix. Can you give us a bit of indication how that evolves in Q3 and Q4, please?

Yeah. What's coming up now is obviously three vessels in the North Sea. Two of them have started; the third one is on its way up. We have a quite large program to be done in Brazil. That is still waiting on final permits. And we have two 3D programs we plan for in Northeast Canada. In addition, we plan for two vessels in Canada, and we plan for 2D vessels, and we plan for 2D activity in Mexico. So that's sort of the activity that comes in addition to what we have done so far.

When it comes to pre-funding, I think I would just stick to the guidance we have for the year, which is that we believe we will be at or above 100% for the total portfolio. And then we have sort of given you one data point for the next quarter saying it will come down from 125%.

Right. Thanks for that. Now, just a bit more detail on that. In terms of your announced MultiClient investments for the year, has that pretty much been all accounted for within what you just explained to me? And secondly, like you said, you're waiting for permits in Brazil. Is there any risk of delay there?

There is always risk of delay when it comes to permitting. We've seen that already. But the vessel we plan to send there is currently busy in the North Sea. And we have some flexibility in terms of when we can make her available for Brazil when the permits are there. And we have also programs we can, and want to do in the North Sea if we have to wait a little bit. So we have kind of designed the schedule, such that there is some flexibility for that. And these programs pretty much account for the investment level we talk about. If we were to do more that would lead to likely an increase in investment and an increase in capacity allocation from the 45% we have indicated at this quarterly presentation.

Okay. And just one minor point, when you talk about your MultiClient, allocation is going to be 45%, is that – that's your 3D fleet? Is that correct, or does that include the 2D vessels as well?

It's 3D. We normally measure this in streamer capacity, so the 2D doesn't matter much anyway, but it's 3D the way we count.

Okay. I understand. I just wanted to double check that. Thank you very much. I'll turn it over.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We will now move to next question. Thank you.

Yes, good afternoon. This is Christopher Møllerløkken calling from SpareBank 1 Markets. When you increased the allocation to MultiClient by 10 percentage point, how much of that improved your EBITDA for this year?

Christopher, I don't think we want to quantify that in a way. We have an estimate on our pre-funding for the portfolio in a way. And you can do that exercise, based on the aggregate numbers. It has generally – if you assume that this increased allocation did not impact our forecasted pre-funding percentage, there would be a positive effect on such reallocation, because obviously of the capitalization of cost that we do in MultiClient.

In terms of the contract revenues achieved in first quarter, were there anything particular that caused them to be low except weak pricing and low utilization? Could you say anything regarding the productivity, for example, for the fleet in first quarter?

No, the operations on the vessels that has been at work has been pretty good and efficient. So as we state, we think the current pricing we reflect is – on the work being done is slightly on the negative of sort of a breakeven point. But most of the difference on the margin we report in contract is really idle time and sort of gaps in schedule, and non-productive sort of costs, if you like, and not so much – or really not at all productivity on the work we have done.

In terms of the plans in Mexico, recently we saw some that you were permitted to acquire seismic offshore Mexico. The applications [indiscernible] (21:47) suggested a fairly significant 2D MultiClient program, could you comment upon how big MultiClient investments you plan for Mexico or if you have applied for more areas than you were planning to acquire?

No, I don't think that would be appropriate. This is a competitive landscape, there's customer dialog and all these things. And obviously, we have taken a position that we can do quite a lot. We have 2D capacity ourselves, we can utilize for that. And then we will see how this evolves. As we have some pre-funding in place for some of the things we plan to do first, and of course we'll work on this as we go forward.

Yeah. And final question, more a bookkeeping part maybe to Gottfred, but at the morning call earlier today, was my understanding correct that you will continue to account for depreciation on Challenger and Explorer, as you have time limited the stacking to six quarters? So I should assume a write-off in fourth quarter to take these vessels down to zero?

No, the first part of what you said is absolutely correct. The conclusion at the end is absolutely wrong. We took the decision now in a way recently to stack the vessels. When we took that decision we updated our modeling of what these vessels will deliver from – of cash flows, from today and until they are ultimately retired and made an impairment test based on that. And that model obviously has then taken the base case assumption that the vessels will be stacked for six quarters, and then coming to operation again afterwards. So there has been – unless circumstances change and we determine that we should make different estimates at a later point in time, we do not expect any impairment charge. Mechanically we albeit logically, you could argue that since you don't use the vessels you shouldn't depreciate them. The plan is then the rules are that we will continue to record a linear depreciation on the vessels through the second period.

Thank you.

Thank you. We will now move to next question.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning.

Two questions. First on second quarter contract EBIT margins and 2015 for that matter. Can you just give us some thoughts as to parameters around where you think that could land? Do you still think you could hit low single-digit positive numbers on that metric for the year?

That's a good question. We commented on the presentation this morning that, given where we see the market today and where we need to be to book the vessels, we think our view on the contract pricing has changed from giving an EBIT margin low single-digit positive to now switching on the negative side.

Then there are two questions to this. One is, what is the margin on the pricing of the work you actually do, which is kind of what we try to discuss when it comes to Q1 and the other one is, of course, what is the aggregate margin including idle time and stack time, which would obviously will be a different number.

And in Q1 you see a very large gap between the two. In Q2 you will see a smaller gap between the two, but as many of you have observed we have had a slower start of the quarter in April with some of the vessels and then that will pick up to quite high utilization for May and June. And on aggregate that is what we refer to as an active time of about 80% for the quarter, compared to 63% in Q1.

So if you then look for the full year, if you look at the margin for the work actually done you are slightly on the negative. If you then add in the dilution of margin, because of idle time, you will get to a lower number. But we are not prepared to go into further details on that. The way we manage the company in a downturn like this is very much on a cash flow basis. So any MultiClient opportunity we look for is driven by how can we generate cash in a MultiClient versus what can we achieve in the contract? And the margin becomes pretty much a residual here that falls out of that equation and not so much a target. The target is really optimizing the cash flow for the company for the year.

And how do your thoughts around market share fit into that thinking?

Now, we are not chasing market share, we are looking at what can we achieve of vessel allocation and opportunity, and utilization based on the assets we have. In a fully-utilized market, market share is a reflection of the vessels you have. Of course, now, there is a different discussion around that and we have made our call in terms of the vessels we have, how they compete, and said, let's take out the two least productive ones for a while, since that will help us in utilizing our operations. And we'll actually improve, we believe, overall, our cash generation and in that equation there's also an element obviously of using the streamers on the two vessels we take out to optimize the CapEx side of the equation.

Okay. That's really helpful. And then second question is just on the capital. CapEx this year includes, it looks like $150 million for the two new builds. How do you think about new build CapEx in 2016? Is there anything left? And then how do you think about maintenance capital with the two new builds and maybe without the two stacked vessels?

CapEx on the – you're right in saying that $150 million of CapEx on the new builds, most likely below that for 2015. It will be higher in 2016, if my memory serves me right, and I should know the numbers, we're talking in the range of $250 million for the new builds in 2016. For those who want to double check there's a slide on that I think in our latest Capital Markets Day presentation, the distribution of the CapEx. We disregard in a way the re-use of equipment that we can, for a period, now after the stacking and disregard an element of new builds. We believe that the maintenance CapEx, ongoing sort of run rate is in the range of $160 million to $180 million-type. There's a number of that, on that, in the Capital Markets Day slides as well. Obviously for periods of time when the market is weak we can do less than that. As for example, this year we're doing around $100 million of maintenance CapEx and we can do that for a limited number of years, in a way, to optimize cash flow. But that would – so we can do that because we are well equipped, we have well-maintained vessels and so on, but that will build a sort of backlog of maintenance need over time.

Okay. That's really helpful. So just to clarify, the $160 million to $180 million includes all the vessels including new builds and the Challenger and Explorer?

I think I believe [ph] that because that (30:25) is yes. It is an indication so I may want to widen it out, say, $150 million to $200 million, but anyway it's short of $200 million, really.

Okay. That's really helpful. That's all I have. Thank you.

We will now move to the next question.

Hello.

I have two questions. This is Asad Farid. I am calling from Berenberg Bank. In your presentation you mentioned that you, right now, you have 10% to 15% spare capacity supply/demand imbalance in the seismic market. I just wanted to ask the two vessels which you have cold-stacked, which you have announced today, at the same time, you have seen capacity reductions announced by CGG at the full-year results. They also removed two vessels. You also have Polarcus who have also cold-stacked one vessel. When you incorporate all that, is it like, do you still have 10% to 15% capacity – does the market still require 10% to 15% further capacity reduction or are you just talking about 2015? Or if it is just about 2015, what kind of level – what kind of further capacity reduction is required if you look at 2016 levels?

And secondly, you're cold-stacking two of your vessels. In case the market turns in 2015, how much time, in terms of months, would be required to bring these two vessels back into the market and what kind of costs are we talking about? Thank you.

You touched on quite a few important themes here. Let me first say, the stacking of the two vessels we do plan for now are only having an effect for a quarter of the year. But ballpark, if we were to account for these two vessels for full year, they would represent about 4% of the capacity reduction. So if you say 10% to 15%, 4% of that would come down. And since we have only taken in 1% of that in the number for this year, there's another 3% coming out for next year when you have a full year effect of it.

So there is still a bit more than those 3% to balance the way we see today. But this is a picture that changes month to month with how the bid curve varies and how people are taking out capacity. We have indications that there are other vessels that seems to be more or less out of the market, but not fully communicated as being out of the market. And therefore, we think there is a chance of during the next six months to seven months that we will see more capacity coming out.

It would take us probably a little bit over six months to bring these two vessels back and the basis for that is that we would have to order new streamers, since we now take the streamers off these boats [indiscernible] (33:42) So there is an investment case to be made where you, ballpark, have to [ph] spend (33:50) $50 million on investing CapEx on each vessel to make them come back to the market. That's basically the case. We would also have to, of course, man up by recruiting in crew, but that is well possible to do within that timeframe.

Now, we plan to bring these vessels back under the assumption that if the cyclicality markets will continue and then sooner or later we get a balance and prices will come up, and we think it's very important that we are clear on communicating that. To the extent that in a better up cycle, other people would be tempted to build more vessels. I think this time there is some capacity out there, also other newer vessels that are currently stacked that will come back in a better market and that will kind of, hopefully, dampen the appetite to build even more capacity. So that is our thinking around that.

Can I just ask one follow-up. Like after the cold-stacking of these two vessels, looking at where the market is right now and considering that you guys are saying that the weakness in seismic market will continue into 2016, do you think that you will require further capacity reductions coming from your side? Or do you think, looking at your fleet and looking at the operational metrics, considering, as you say, that your vessels are more competitive from a cost point of view, do you think that with these vessels you would not be required to reduce further capacity over the next few months if the market remains as it is, neither improving nor deteriorating?

It's hard in this market to be very firm on predictions like that. But our plan today is to take out these two vessels for six quarters for now and stick to the rest of the fleet. And bear in mind, we get two new vessels next year, so in terms of number of vessels we will actually, when we come to second half of next year, be at the same number as we are today, but, of course, removing the two lowest productivity vessels with the two best vessels in the world. So that's going to be the difference.

Great. Thank you very much.

We will now move to next question.

Yes. This is Morten from Nordea. Just a follow-up on the question regarding contract revenues, which were weak and probably below expectations. You had deferred cost in the quarter, which I guess is linked to deferred revenues. Is these contract revenues? And, if so, how much is deferred? Thanks.

Contract revenues in the range slightly below $8 million.

That's it from me. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question. Thank you.

Hello. It's Amy from UBS here. Just a very quick, boring, housekeeping question from me. In terms of reporting your quarterly vessel allocation, when you get around to the last quarter for the Ramform Explorer and Challenger, is that going to be reported as stacked, or are you going to remove those vessels and report your utilization steaming and yard time, excluding those two vessels?

We plan to, at the time they are retired, not retired but cold-stacked, we will remove them from the total and report our utilization based on then the remaining eight vessels.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you very much. That's it from me. [Operator Instructions]

It appears that we have no further question at this point.

Okay, that concludes this conference call. Thank you all for participating, and goodbye.

That will conclude today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.