Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President- IR & Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Good afternoon to our international callers, and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call, presenting the company's second quarter and first half 2016 results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President of IR and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Rune Olav Pedersen, EVP and General Counsel. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements.

The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to the CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Good morning to American-based participants, and good afternoon to people in Europe. We have today presented our second quarter with an EBITDA of $68.8 million, driven primarily by strong MultiClient revenues of $93.2 million. Relative to where we are in the cycle, we consider this a decent number. Pre-funding level of 113% and a liquidity reserve still at $429.7 million.

We start to see early signs of improved market sentiment, and I will revert a bit to that later in the discussion. We are continuing to having a high focus on cost reductions and have increased our ambition and are on track to deliver over the ambition we had initially.

Operationally, our vessel performance has been very strong also in this quarter. And as announced earlier, we have also in the quarter amended our covenant ratio for the revolving credit facility to get – to come to an adequate position with now – or as before no maturities until late 2018 and now with substantial time and strengthened ability to navigate the trough on this cycle. We can now act in tune with how the market develops.

I move then to slide five. Order book is up to $230 million and vessel booking is at 95% for Q3, 50% for Q4, 15% for Q1 and 10% for Q2.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to take us through some of the numbers.

Thank you. I will start on slide number seven, a consolidated statement of profit and loss summary. The revenues for the quarter was $183 million, which represents a market and capacity driven decline of 28% compared to the second quarter of 2015.

EBITDA $68.8 million, 45% down from Q2 2015. In addition to the market and reduced capacity, the EBITDA is impacted by the fact that we have used significantly less of our capacity for MultiClient in this second quarter compared to what we did in Q2 2015.

I move then to the next slide, number eight; Q2 2016 operational highlights. Total MultiClient revenues in the quarter, $93.2 million; pre-funding revenues were $47.2 million, which with a cash investment in the library of $41.8 million, represents a 113% pre-funding ratio. Late sales in the quarter, $46 million.

The marine contract revenues had a sequential increase of 18%, and ended at $69.9 million for the second quarter. These revenues reflects continued low pricing of contract work, but with some positive impact from starting the North Europe season with some of our vessels in the quarter.

Then, I will flip a few slides down, and stop at slide number 13, group cost focus delivers results. Our gross cash cost continues to come down. We had a sequential decrease on costs from $175 million in Q1 to $158 million in Q2, despite starting the operations of two more vessels during the quarter. The gross cash cost in the second half is expected to be higher than in the first half since we will operate a larger fleet on average in the second half and also due to higher project-related costs. For the full year, our gross cash cost is now expected to end at or below $700 million.

I then move to slide 16, consolidated statements of cash flows summary. Cash flow from operations in the quarter, $42.4 million impacted by a slight reversal of the strong working capital improvement that we had in Q1, primarily due to some of the MultiClient late sales or MultiClient sales concluded relatively late in the quarter. The year-to-date cash flow from operations, $175.8 million, quite strong and higher than the recorded EBITDA for the same period, primarily then, of course, as a result of a positive effect of working capital changes.

We had relatively high CapEx in Q2 and that remained related primarily to the last new build Ramform Hyperion, which – where we also paid for the floating or launching installment in the quarter. When evaluating the cash flow, it is important to note that we've incurred most of the new build CapEx for this year already in the first half of the total $165 million expected, $140 million has already been incurred. So, our new build CapEx will be $115 million lower in the second half compared to the first half, thus our cash flow after CapEx should be more balanced for the remainder of the year.

Moving to slide number 17, balance sheet key numbers. Adequate liquidity reserve, $430 million approximately. Our leverage ratio – total leverage ratio, which is relevant for covenant calculations, 3.86:1 at quarter-end. As already mentioned, we have amended the covenant level for the revolving credit facility and increased it to a maximum of 5.5:1 compared to previously [ph] 4:1, which we'll apply up onto (8:42) mid-2016 and thereafter reduced.

On the net interest bearing debt, the main part of the increase year-to-date relates to new build CapEx. I think I would stop there, Jon Erik, and hope you are ready to get the word back.

Absolutely. So, moving to slide 20, early signs of an improved market. Number one, we're obviously, compared to Q1, now with an oil price in the high $40s versus high $20s. No doubt that has impact on our customers on how they think, act and behave. And in addition, increasing number of our customers have been through their restructuring, have gotten their acts in order. They know what they're planning to do, and they have budgets in place.

So, we see a much more firm basis for discussions and for execution of the projects, and we do observe an increasing interest for MultiClient data library, even though we should expect quarterly and regional near-term variability still, but still very different from Q1. Also, in the contract market, there is a significant difference. It's still characterized by low pricing, but within much more predictable customer survey planning and contracting process when it comes to getting the work done.

And in that respect, we see also contract moving closer to a better regime since we, on the last bullet on this slide, see already very high vessel utilization in the industry and low – illustrated – or confirmed by low vessel idle time in Q1, Q2 and Q3, as we see it this year. And, of course, in terms of utilization, significantly above 2015 at the same time.

We also increasingly become aware of what I called pent-up client demand here, which is work that basically have been pushed to the right to postpone spending, a number of [ph] worries (11:15) in Africa and in the North Sea, but also license commitments that are undertaken, but not done yet, and for the same reasons have been pushed to the right as far as possible.

We see an uptick in backlog and also backlog overbooked capacity type calculation which indicates somewhat better pricing, which is relevant for what's left on the North Sea season. And this, combined with extensive customer dialogue over the last weeks, also lead us to believe that there will be an increase in seismic spend in 2017 over 2016.

The next slide, slide 21 has another side of the same discussion. We monitor the seismic volume measured in 3D square kilometers year-on-year. And for the first time now in a couple of years we have, during the year, been able to up the estimate for the volume from earlier 300,000 square kilometers to now 320,000 square kilometers to 340,000 square kilometers as we see it.

So, an increase in the middle of this range of about 10% over what we earlier thought would be the case for this year. And of course, also, if you look at it on a longer-term perspective, we are then for 2016 well above all the years before 2010, which is interesting because there has been extremely profitable years before there. So, clearly there is volume still in our industry to support operation, support a given fleet in size. But, of course, as the fleet has grown bigger than the demand, we have seen prices collapse.

Now, the industry's response to this is the lower curve, a significant drop in active streamers. Last quarter, we talked about that drop being 50%. The curve indicated that that drop would come back a little bit, and is now 45% and primarily is that driven by new capacity to the market, our Tethys and also WesternGeco taking one of the last of the new builds into operation.

Now, this increasing capacity has obviously now been absorbed in the market by the higher volume I just spoke to about here. So, it doesn't fundamentally change the discussion around market balance that I had.

Slide 22, bidding activity for Marine Contracting, still at low levels. We have a decent volume of leads in Africa for Q4 and Q1, softer in Asia Pacific, North and South America, even though there is some MultiClient and contract work to be done in Brazil for the next quarters.

We see a relatively short time and high conversion rates currently from lead to tender. It looks like the organizations we now work with on the client side are extremely focused, directed and spend their time efficiently on the work that actually is going to be done. And that has also resulted on the curve here to a very, very small gap between leads and bids. Quick conversion rate is the main driver for that. There's not a lot of opportunities in the hopper before they become bids.

Then, moving to the guiding slide, we have taken down our estimate for gross cash cost to at or below $700 million for the full year from $715 million. We have reduced our MultiClient cash investments [ph] $25 million (15:23) to $225 million. And we now see 40% to 45% of the active vessel time in 3D being planned for MultiClient. So, there's somewhat more capacity available for contract, but still with the same estimated contribution from pre-funding since we're guiding on 100% on almost the same number.

CapEx approximately $225 million. And as Gottfred alluded to, most of the new build CapEx of $165 million, [ph] i.e., $140 million (15:55) was insured in first half, so CapEx should come significantly down in the second half. Also worth noting, when you look at the MultiClient guidance up against what has been done in the first half, we expect more MultiClient in the second half as a result of the guiding we are maintaining here.

Finally, in conclusion, we are competitively positioned to navigate the current market environment. We do see early signs of improved market sentiment, customer dialogue, et cetera. We have an industry-leading fleet and technology position to compete with. We see healthy MultiClient performance given where we are in the cycle. Substantial cost reductions continue to come out of the system and we see an improved cash flow in the second half of 2016.

And, finally, we have amended our financial covenants to create increased flexibility. And we have an adequate position with no maturities until late 2018. And we have substantial time and strength and ability available to navigate beyond the trough of this cycle in tune with how the market develops.

And, with that, I hand back to Bård Stenberg to coordinate on the next phase.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Yes. [Operator Instructions] There are no questions at this time. [Operator Instructions] We will take our first question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hello and thank you for taking my questions. This is [indiscernible] (19:06) Capital. Just wanted to understand how different segments of your business has been performing in Q2 and I'm looking particularly at imaging. It's a pretty small portion of your activities, but it seemed a bit more resilient than the other, so maybe you can give a little bit more color on how do you see this segment perform for the rest of the year and then going into 2017? And how do you see the connection between this segment and MultiClient or yard activities?

I mean, what we report on imaging is only the external sales. So, the imaging activity is substantially larger than what you see here, because they also do all the MultiClient imaging work that is included in the MultiClient numbers. But you are right that imaging is more resilient on the volume still overall and we are on track for a significant upgrade in recognition and quality of what we do in the imaging. And we have an ambition also there to move towards the leading position. And with some clients, we are very, very close to that recognition already.

So, imaging has not to the same extent taken the hit. Some on the rates, obviously, some on the volume, but in terms of head count, we are much more stable there than in the other segments due to actual work that we are winning out there.

Okay. Thank you. And just following-up on this like how – you mentioned that you're trying to compete with the others, but when I, I mean, look at the market probably WesternGeco and CGG would be the largest players in imaging. I'm just trying to understand like how competitive do you see yourself in this sector, either when you perform it externally or in your relationship to your MultiClient business.

A lots of our improved performance relates to new technologies that we have developed from the GeoStreamer technology, where we have had a unique access to data over – to the raw data over a few years before competition came to that level. So, we have developed, and paid and protected a number of processing technologies that is now gaining a lot of traction in the marketplace that are unique to PGS. And in general, we also see a significant improvement in our quality. Relative to the others, it's a question you should ask the client about. We are really increasingly confident that we are competing very well with the other players in this market.

Thank you. And just one last question on the capacity utilization in the market. Like you mentioned that the number of streamers have been [ph] idled (22:12) and of course a number of your competitors made statements that they are going to idle a number of vessels. How many of those vessels and those streamers do you think might be available to come back from being stacked and how much of the market improvement you would need to see?

I don't think there is a lot of streamers hanging around that is not used today, and the perspective on that is if you look at what we and others have done of streamer manufacturing over the last two, three years, it's very limited. And streamers have a life of about seven years. So, if three years have passed without really any significant new capacity additions, you have lost three-seventh of the streamer pool and the rest is what's basically more or less on the active vessels.

So, in order to bring vessels back, the main rule will be that you will have to buy new streamer kits to equip the stacked vessels because they don't have the streamers on board any more, which is a $50 million per vessel type investment. And that is the threshold that number one, you have to afford, and number two, you have to make a wise decision when it's right to do that given that today there will obviously be negative return on doing such an investment.

Thank you very much.

Okay. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at the moment.

Okay. If there is no further questions, we thank you all for participating. And if there is some follow-up questions, I will be available on the phone for the afternoon. And have a nice summer.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That would conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect.