corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO


Q3 2010 Earnings Call -


Afternoon Call
 
Oct. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Petroleum Geo-Services Q3 2010 Conference Call.


Today’s conference is being recorded.


At this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to your host today, Mr. Tore Langballe. Please go


ahead, sir.


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications


Thanks you, Margaret, and good afternoon, and welcome to international callers, and good morning


to U.S. participants. Welcome to this conference call following the release of the company’s


earnings report for the third quarter 2010.


With us from management today we have Jon Erik Reinhardsen, our CEO; Gottfred Langseth,


CFO; Guillaume Cambois, Executive Vice President responsible for Data Processing and


Technology; and Bård Stenberg responsible for Investor Relations. Management will make some


opening remarks and then open the line for questions.


Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I’d like to comment on forward-looking statements that might


be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this conference


call are based on management’s expectations and predictions of the future, and are therefore to be


considered as forward-looking statements. The company’s actual results could differ materially from


those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual


results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today’s press release and in


PGS’s Annual Report.


So by then, I will turn the call to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tore, and good morning and good afternoon to all of you on the call. We’ll start with


slide number three in the slide pack. We have announced today our earnings for the third quarter


with an EBITDA of 131 million, the Marine Contract margin of 25%, MultiClient Late sales of 56,


which essentially improved quite significantly over the last two weeks of the quarter. So we had a


good uptick there towards the end. MultiClient pre-funding rate of 139%, order book 489 million, all


Q4 capacity booked, 70% plus of Q1 booked, and we see through the whole company that it’s


really GeoStreamer that is starting to make it’s mark, whether it’s Marine Contract, MultiClient or


Data Processing. And in the GeoStreamer segment, if we can call it that, in particular, we see still


strong demand relative to the capacity we have available. But we also see in general, an uptick in


market and bid activity, which I’ll come back to later on.


Slide four, the most notable difference is, of course, that the downward going trend on numbers


since the peak has been broken with this quarter, which indicates that we have sort of passed the


trough where we are at least bottoming out, and we expect that we going forward will be able to


harvest more due to also the increased impact of the GeoStreamer in our business.


Slide number five, order book stable over the last quarters, number of inquiries is increasing,


especially for the GeoStreamer, but also in general. We see direct awards for the GeoStreamer


given there is no real competition available at the moment. Vessel booking visibility approximately


six months, which we consider adequate in order to ensure a proper optimization of the vessel


scheduling, but not longer than needed, given that the next move in the general market we expect
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO


Q3 2010 Earnings Call -


Afternoon Call
 
Oct. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


is upwards. So we want to have capacity available to harvest the higher prices as soon as they can


be realized. Backlog is longer for GeoStreamer and longer for Data Processing on the back of the


GeoStreamer, and we are achieving a price premium when it comes to GeoStreamer services.


And with that, I hand over to CFO, Gottfred Langseth.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. I will talk start on slide number seven, consolidated statements of operations summary.


Some brief comments. The revenues for the quarter 296.4 million; EBITDA, as mentioned, 138 –


$131 million, operating profit before an impairment charge of 80 million, was 52 million; and after


the deduction of the impairment charge, EBIT of 27.6 million; net financial items was a cost of 0.5


million impacted by some significant elements this quarter, which I will refer to on my next slide.


Income tax expense of 14.9 million, which could appear high compared to the pre-tax loss, a


reason for that is that impairment charge taken has no tax effects or impact on the tax calculation,


adjusted for that, the tax rate reported is approximately 28%. Net income of – or net loss of $41.2


million reported.


The next slide is slide number eight, significant financial reporting items. We recorded as I said


impairment of $80 million in the quarter that related to the last Spanish vessel cancelled, NB 535,


and should add that consequence – consequence of that cancellation we have also after the


quarter end, received the refunds from the Bank of New York in total €45 million. That refund is not


obviously reflected in the cash flow or in the third quarter since it was received in October.


The second significant item to explain is that we have a significant foreign currency – foreign


exchange gain in the quarter, close to $21 million. We, as most of you know, buy quite significant


amounts of Norwegian Krone and British pounds forward to mitigate or hedge our operational


exposure. The U.S. dollar depreciated significantly during third quarter against both of these


currencies creating this foreign currency gain. Lastly on this slide, we recorded a loss from


associated companies of $7.2 million in the quarter, mainly relating to our 7 – 12% interest in


Geokinetics, which we equity account for.


I will then move to the next slide, slide number nine, the Q3 highlights. Marine Contract revenues


increased to $166 million in the quarter with an EBIT margin of the Contract work of 25%,


compared to 14% in the second quarter. The improvement in margin impacted by Q3 seasonally


normally better, more capacity used for contract work, and better vessel utilization and generally


good vessel performance.


On the MultiClient side, both MultiClient pre-funding and late sales revenues increased significantly


from the second quarter, with pre-funding up 57% and late sales up 96%. Our pre-funding revenue


is primarily driven by the North Sea project, which attracted good pre-funding. And our late sales


positively impacted by resolution of a border dispute between Brunei and Malaysia, and also good


MultiClient late sales in Brazil. Data Processing revenues of $24.6 million, a good increase from


third quarter in last year.


I will then jump quite a few slides actually to slide number 16, consolidated statements of cash flow


summary on slide 16. We had a increase in working capital in the third quarter. That is driven by a


reversal of the record low working capital level we saw in second quarter, which we also cautioned


about when we released second quarter numbers, and also part of that, the strong revenues


particularly on late sales in September, where cash collection will go into the start of fourth quarter.


On the cash flow statement, it is also impacted by refund on the second last terminated vessel in


Spain, where we received the bank guarantees amount totaling approximately $48 million during