Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Peter Hatfield — Analyst, Dahlman Rose & Co. LLC
Amy Wong — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Ian Macpherson — Analyst, Simmons & Company

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon to national callers and good morning to U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call following the release of the Company's earnings report for the third quarter this year.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, our CEO; Gottfred Langseth, who is the CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations; in addition to myself, Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications. There will be some short opening remarks by Mr. Reinhardsen and Mr. Langseth before we open the lines for questions. They will be referring to the presentation that is available on our website.

Before I turn the call to Jon Erik, I'd like to make some comments on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions for the future, and are therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements; and factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detail in today's press release and in our Annual Report.

By that, I'll turn the call over to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.

Thank you, Mr. Langballe. We are starting at slide number three in the slide presentation that we used earlier today; that is on our website. Referring just briefly to a strong quarter, revenues $388.3 million, a Group EBIT margin of 29% and a very strong and healthy cash flow from operating activities of $260.2 million. We have, in addition, just recently raised $250 million in Japanese export credit financing to cover parts of the two first Ramform Titan-class new builds. We have also exercised options for two additional Ramform Titan-class vessels to be delivered in 2015.

The other highlight in this quarter is that we have now successfully done our first commercial surveys with Towed EM; something we have talked about in a couple of years now to be commercial in 2012 and now we have done that. And given the great results we see from those surveys, we are now revising our ambitions for next year in terms of how much work we will be able to get done. We have also upped our EBITDA guidance to approximately $800 million for the year.

We then skip to slide number five; order book. We are now covered well into the summer season, so we have bridged the winter at prices that is at least at level with what we have had now in Q3. Order book, end of the quarter, was $608 million. Order book mid-October, two weeks later, was $773 million. And that means we have a book now that is fully booked for Q4, 90% for Q1 and 75% for Q2 next year. And quite a lot of the interest we have is obviously in our GeoStreamer, given it's the dominant share of our fleet; and we see how that increasingly is gaining interest and momentum in the industry.

And with that as the starting comments, I will hand over to Gottfred Langseth to go through some of the financial slides.

Thank you. I will start on slide number seven, consolidated statement of operations summary. Q3 demonstrates strong margin and profitability improvement for PGS, with revenues up 14% compared to third quarter last year; EBITDA up 45%; and EBIT up 149%.

Net financial items for the quarter was down to $9 million net cost. Income tax expense was 15% of pre-tax profits, favorably impacted by operation of the vessels in the Norwegian tonnage tax regime and also favorable currency changes. We had the third quarter net income of $86.9 million, with the corresponding earnings per share of $0.40.

Then I'll move to slide number eight, Q3 2012 highlights. With late sales of $65.7 million and pre-funding revenues of $121.3 million, MultiClient revenues totaled $187 million for the third quarter, up 30% from Q3 last year. Pre-funding revenues were primarily driven by projects in Angola and Northern Europe. Late sales were strongest in South America and Europe, followed by North America, Gulf of Mexico.

Pre-funding as a percentage of capitalized MultiClient cash investments is strong in the quarter, 141%. Marine Contract revenues were $164 million in the third quarter, flat from third quarter last year despite less of our vessel capacity used for contract work. The Marine Contract EBIT margin was 28%, driven by a generally stronger seismic market, improved profitability on the GeoStreamer jobs and strong Q3 utilization and efficiency. External Data Processing revenues, record high at $33.1 million in the quarter.

I'll then move quite a few slides to slide number 14, Japanese export credit financing established. We have secured now Japanese export credit financing for the two first vessels to be delivered in 2013, $250 million in total. We are very pleased with successfully completing this. The terms are attractive with a 12 year tenor and initial interest rate – annual interest rate estimated to 2.3%.

Then moving to my last slide, slide number 16; we have a very strong balance sheet position with a liquidity reserve at the end of third quarter of $640 million; net interest bearing debt of $381 million; and an equity ratio of approximately 62%. With that, I'll give the word back to Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Gottfred. We will then move to slide 19, just to take a quick look at the market activity. It's continuing to trend up, as it has been doing for the last 15 to 18 months. Short-term, from a temporary peak, it came down due to awards across the industry of a number of large surveys that is today part of the backlog in between the companies. It's also coming up slightly, because the prices embedded in these dollar curves are higher. We do expect quite high 2013 North Atlantic bidding activity. But we also see good bid opportunities in all regions, and we do see that the proportion of bids that are favoring GeoStreamer continues to increase.

Slide 21, just a quick look on – that it hasn't done any significant changes since earlier quarters on the demand side. On the supply side, we've added what we know of deliveries; and we then see that in 2015, we expect a 7% increase. All in all, of course, all these numbers in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 are below what has been the north of 10% annual growth rate in square kilometers. So it speaks to, absent any other additional vessels, a tightening market as we move forward for the next couple of years at least.

Then we go to slide 23, where we quickly just show you the first pictures of the first of the new Titan-class vessels, which is actually named – or will be named Ramform Titan; will be delivered end Q1 next year. And then there are two more of – one more end Q4 next and two more in 2015. And we see that these vessels will strengthen our position in the high-end markets further. They're already attracting keen customer interest, and we already have an internal battle between MultiClient and Contract of who is going to have this vessel for Q2 and Q3 as she comes to in the market.

We're also proud to show you on slide 24 that we have, this quarter, launched the Towed EM, and acquiring EM data in the Towed Streamer is very much close to our core and what we are good at. We have used Nordic Explorer. The benefits of our system, having now reached a great quality level, is the efficiency obviously, where we can acquire in 4 to 5 knot speed, which is the same as basically we do with the Towed Streamer. We have online quality control. So, we can at any point see how the data is coming in, or we can repeat if something is not as it should be.

It's a portable system that we can port from vessel-to-vessel and it enables simultaneous seismic and EM acquisition from two different cable sets. Also with this Towed solution, we acquire a huge amount of data. So it's a dense data coverage set and there is an opportunity there for more high-grade or more refined EM surveys, if you like, at a very reasonable cost. And obviously, since we have a huge seismic data library, we can now match that with EM data and develop a business platform on that basis.

The next slide is just continuing to demonstrate or talk through this demonstrated strength of the GeoStreamer platform and where we are continuously coming with additions to the platform; first with the GeoStreamer GS, which is short for the GeoSource, which enables the full de-ghosting solution.

And now this year with the Separated Wavefield Imaging solution, which is a patented solution, which actually gives us an opportunity to follow the multiples from the sea surface down another time to the reservoir. And it gives us an opportunity to illuminate surfaces in between sort of the streamer lines, if you like. Some call it true 3D, but it gives us a much better imaging platform, adding SWIM to the processing flow.

Moving then to slide 27, we see as an outlook increased market activity. GeoStreamer demand is stronger than ever, and we are happy to see that we have two GeoStreamer vessels next year coming in. We have one more upgrade of one of the S-classes in 2014; two other further GeoStreamer vessels in 2015, with number three and four of the Titan-class.

We observe that oil companies are more proactive in securing capacities. We expect the summer season, the North Atlantic summer season 2013 to be strong, and we are very comfortable with the order book and visibility through the first half of 2013. The only sort of dark cloud out there at the moment is really that the macro-environment is uncertain; and the impact of the macro to an oil price would over time obviously impact also the demand side.

On the guidance, which is the next slide; we have upped EBITDA, as I said, to $800 million. MultiClient guidance is the same in terms of investment level. CapEx is up a notch due to the exercise of the options, where the first installments to the shipyard then will be paid this year. So, of the $400 million to $450 million CapEx program, $250 million ballpark will be associated with the new build program.

And with that, I hand over to Langballe for questions.

Thank you, Jon Erik. I'll kindly ask the operator to assist us, please.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Christopher Møllerløkken from SB-1. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon gentlemen. Just some follow-up questions on the Brazil and the MultiClient survey you're planning for Q4. How big is this survey in terms of either dollars invested or vessel months used?

I'd say – I seem to remember it's at three, four months for a vessel, something like that. Three months I think it is.

And has it been evaluated any other way than your typical MultiClient surveys? And this is a zero pre-funded survey, and typically, you would often assume Brazil to be a high pre-funding area?

Yeah, it is. And of course, the pre-funding normally comes in as we count it in the processing period. So, Brazil has always for us been a high pre-funded area, even though it's most of the time been done this way. Probably just we haven't talked to you about it this way before. But it is very much the same way as we've done MultiClient in Brazil over the last years.

Okay. Thank you.

We'll now take our next question from Peter Hatfield from Dahlman Rose. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, guys. Sticking with Brazil, I was wondering if you could discuss a little bit more your outlook there for 2013, and how you're thinking about positioning your fleet, given the upcoming licensing rounds that were announced. Thank you.

We expect shortly to have two vessels operating in Brazil; the one we talked about on Contract – on MultiClient and one on Contract. But we do expect this coming couple of quarters to have quite a big share of our fleet in the Southern Atlantic Basin. So, should there be an uptick in Brazil over and beyond that in terms of more contracts, we are very well positioned to take advantage of that, provided it stacks up to other opportunities we have.

Okay, great. Thank you.

We'll now take our next question from Marina Postnikova from UBS. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon. It's Amy here from UBS. I had a question on your vessel allocation in 2013. I know you normally provide it probably more in the Capital Markets Day. I'm wondering if you would give an early indication of what that's going to be for 2013, given the very buoyant contract market. And secondly, with respect to the round 11 Brazil licensing round, do you have any data specifically in those areas of interest at the moment? Thanks.

Yes. Amy, the distribution in next year is likely going to be relatively similar to what it is this year. This year, there is a higher margin in MultiClient and in Contract on average, as you've seen from how the numbers are reported. Next year, we expect Contract as you said to continue to come up – the margin at a more rapid rate than MultiClient slightly.

But we do underlying in our business have a growth or a margin expansion in MultiClient going forward as well for many reasons. And one of them is of course, as you've seen, the net book value of our library is quite conservative. So, it means we have taken a lot of amortization upfront and there's less to amortize as we move forward. So, the MultiClient will still next year be quite competitive to the stronger contract market, as we've seen internally; and therefore, we expect a similar distribution in terms of use of assets next year, as for this year.

When it comes to Brazil, we don't really have much more to add over and beyond what's said in the public from the more recent messages about now looking more and more likely that there will be one, possibly two license rounds next year in Brazil. But everything we hear of sort of informal information seems to confirm that there is more substance to this now.

My question was with respect to do you have any data that's already in the area?

In the north? Sorry.

Yeah.

Sorry, I forgot that bit. We have 2D data, but not very much 3D data up in the north. But we have 2D data in the area.

Great. Thank you very much.

Sorry about that, Amy.

Not a problem.

We'll now take our next question from Ian Macpherson from Simmons. Please go ahead.

Hi, thanks. I'm curious about the embedded pricing in your longer-dated backlog. And I think that you've been careful to say that the pricing on your most recent additions has been at least as good as current pricing. But are you able to elaborate at all with respect to whether pricing later into the middle of next year is similar to now or is it actually like 5% to 10% higher on a comparable basis?

We gave earlier today and in the presentation a couple of data points. In the release, you will see that we now see the average EBIT – contract margin for the year to be in the high-end of the 15% to 20% range for 2012. And then we said, first half of next year, we think the EBIT margin will be 10 percentage points better, of course subject to operating performance being similar. And that gives you an implied understanding of the pricing in the backlog we have sitting there for Q1 and Q2.

Okay, thanks. And then just to follow-up, you've said that the – you have an ability to augment your Towed EM activity next year. Will that have any measurable impact with regard to your margins compared to this year?

It's a bit early to say. I think that's something we would like to come back to when we come to the Capital Markets Day in December. We are currently revising our plans a little bit. So, we'll see what it ends up being.

Okay. No problem. Thank you.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Gentlemen, there are no further questions in the queue.

Okay. Then thank you all for participating and have a nice day. Thank you.

That does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.