raw transcript


Petroleum Geo Services ASA
 
PGEOY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our US participants.


Welcome to PGS’s conference call following the release of the company’s earning report for the


second quarter 2005. We trust that all of you have received a copy of the press release and would


like thank you for your interest PGS.


With us from management are, Svein Rennemo Chief Executive Officer, Gottfred Langseth, Chief


Financial Officer, Rune Eng, President, Marine Geophysical, Sam Morrow, Senior Vice-President,


Finance and Treasurer, Ola Bøsterud, Vice President, Group Communications. Management will


make some opening remarks and then open the lines for questions.


Before we turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, we would like to comment on forward-looking


statements that maybe made during the course of the conference call. Ceratin statements made


during this conference are based on management’s expectations and predictions of future and are


therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company’s actual results could


differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that


could cause this the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in


toady’s release and the filings to the SEC. I hereby turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, CEO of


PGS.


Svein Rennemo, President and CEO


Good morning to all of you in the US and good afternoon to all of you here in Europe. The second


quarter for PGS saw substantial improvements in operating profit, both year-on-year and


sequentially. The Marine contract and Marine seismic markets in general continued to improve and


we saw results well ahead of above expectations with respect to late sales from the multi-client


library. And we were also ahead of our targets on, with respect to contract revenues and margins


taking into account marginal North Sea weather. And special cost factors which we refer to later in


the presentation and also taking into account that our four sea crew moved from contract book in


the first quarter to multi-client work in the second quarter.


Very positively we see bidding levels and customer inquiries clearly pointing towards further


strengthening in the second half of 2005 and in 2006. The Floating Production business of PGS


under-performed relative to our targets in the second quarter and the factors were very much of the


same as we alluded due to you in previous releases. We did see continued problems with all water


separation issues on Petrojarl Foinaven to be addressed now during the third quarter more


decisively. And also on the maintenance cost, we saw a higher level in the second quarter than we


expect as an average for the full year. This should be seen on the background of a strict


maintenance philosophy focusing operability short-term and focusing deployability, re-deployability


of the vessels longer-term. The focus we have on increasing our financial flexibility and improving


the best, the balance sheet, could clearly be seen in debt repayments of $205 million during the


quarter.


Specifically on the numbers, and I focus on the numbers pro forma, that is excluding the impact


from total [ph], not divested during the first quarter. Revenues were up 21% to $292.8 million,


EBITDA up 29% to $99.8 million and operating profit, up $51 million to $50.2 million in the second


quarter. On the cash flow side, we had a temporary increase in working capital, meaning that cash


flow from operations was down $31.6 million to $23.2 million in the second quarter compared to the


second quarter of 2004. In cash flow from operations is included $50 million in interest payments,


which we take semiannual. And with respect to the cash invested in the business, a total of $43


million was split roughly 50:50 on cash investments in multi-client and capital expenditures, largely


in the Marine part of the Marine Seismic part of our business.
raw transcript


Petroleum Geo Services ASA
 
PGEOY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Focusing to change in EBITDA, second quarter 2005 over second quarter 2004, we increased from


$77.5 million to $99.8 million, driven entirely by the improvements in Marine Geophysical, while


onshore saw a weak second quarter due to reduced activity. We will recapture this later in the


year, we will revert to that. Productions are also a decline partly due to a reduction in production


over our vessels, and the maintenance cost impact which I already mentioned. In total, the overall


quarterly results for the group were good and were driven by strong performance in the Marine


contract market segment and by a very strong performance in the Marine with the client late sales


segment.


I’ll now turn it towards to Gottfred Langseth to expand on the operational and financial results.


Then I will return at the end with some summary comment.


Gottfred Langseth, CFO


Thank you, Svein. We will thank you first to the key numbers and highlights by business area and


then few comments on the consolidated financial statements for second quarter.


Starting with Marine Geophysical, contract revenues amounted to $94.2 million compared to 56.9


million in Q2, ’04. That is an increase of 66% which mainly but is due to improved price and


performance on contract, some increase in vessel capacity employed in contract acquisition,


slightly offset by a reduction in contract revenues for our 4C crew since that crew acquired multi-


client data for most parts of the quarter.


Operating margins for towed streamer was 17% in the quarter that is slightly off from the first


quarter and we did not get a full potential outcome the still market and our contract in the quarter


that is on the revenue side, mostly related to a marginal weather in the North Sea, where we had 5


of our streamer vessels and also related to the higher costs on certain elements that I believe that


too including refurbishing American Explorer and all these costs are included in the fully loaded


operating margin or EBIT margin that I referred to as $0.17. As previously we see a market


strengthening in the streamer contract of 15 to 25 percentage point for through the year ’05 over


2004.


Multi-client sales amounted to $73 million that’s 28% up from Q2 ’04. Out of the total sales 55


million related to survey which were truly amortized with 4C book value. That causes the


amortization rate to be low in the quarter approximately 27% of sales. The EBIT margin for our


multi-client area done [ph] approximate 50% after cash cost and after amortization in the quarter


approximately 50%. We had pre-funding revenues over 67% on the cash investments in multi-


client of 17.5 million second quarter, compared to 66% pre-funding on a 7 million investment in Q2


2004. We had some highly pre-funded streamer contract, streamers multi-client service in the


North Sea, but generally streamer activity in multi-client area reduced somewhat comparatively.


And as we increased on the reprocessing, acquisitions of 2Ds multi-client and acquisition of 4C


multi-client data, but these were comparatively less pre-funded.


Marine acquisition backlog at the end of June, a $160 million as compared to $170 at the beginning


of the year, and 188 at the end of Q1. In addition it is generally known in the market that, that we


were the preferred bid on two significant contracts in Brazil that was available in the public area


early June. These contracts or jobs are not included in the backlogs since a formal award hasn’t


been made, there was no final agreement yet signed, that amounts to approximately 70 million.


Moving to the next slide, it shows that how we utilized our vessels for the recent quarters, showing


that we employed 70%of streamer capacity, 76% of streamer capacity in contract acquisition


compared to 69 in Q2 ’04, so it’s approximately a 10% increase. We have brought 8% in multi-


client compared to 10% in Q2 ’04, 11% of available total capacity was used first in steaming and


5% related to yard which involved two vessels, but the main vessel yard activity in the second