raw transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our US participants.


Welcome to PGS’s conference call following the release of the company’s earnings reports for the


third quarter 2005. We trust that you all have received a copy of the press release and we would


like to thank you for the interest in PGS. With us from the management are Svein Rennemo, Chief


Executive Officer; Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer; Espen Klitzing, newly appointed


President of PGS Production, Ola Bosterud, Vice President, Group Communications. Management


will make some opening remarks and then open the lines for questions. Before we turn the call


over to Svein Rennemo, we would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be


made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this conference


call are based on management’s expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be


considered as forward-looking statements. The company’s actual results could differ materially


from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could case the


actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today’s release in the


filings to the SEC. I hereby turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, CEO of PGS.


Svein Rennemo, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning to you in the US and good afternoon to you in Europe. The third quarter 2005 was


an excellent quarter for the PGS Group. We saw a very substantial improvement in our EBIT third


quarter 2005 over third quarter 2004. In the quarter, we had an uneven performance among our


business units, both Onshore and Production being influenced by temporary factors during the


quarter. The main driver of improvement is an unprecedented rise improvements in the Marine-


Geophysical markets. I was really pleased to see the contract performance during the quarter in


Marine Steamer activity and also that we were able to very substantially increase our backlog


during the quarter. Late sales development showed improvement in the third quarter compared to


the third quarter of 2004 in virtually all reasons. And we reiterate the guidance with respect to late


sales for the total year in line with 2004 levels.


The negative factors for Onshore were primarily late startup in Nigeria, and important transitions on


projects there. But also delays in expected multi-client sales in North America to some extent


related to the hurricanes.


On the production side, the performance as we also informed due to market previously the


performance will influence [ph] by the plant maintenance work. The maintenance work was


conducted according to plants for with only small delays for all the four vessels. We continue the


strengthening of the balance sheets and since the turn of the year, we had reduced net by $267


million during the third quarter alone net debt also reduced by $92 million.


The specific numbers, revenues for the third quarter at the $278.2 million, up 10% adjusted


EBITDA $97.4 million, up 7% and operating profit due to $6.6 million, up 152%. All these numbers


are in the pro forma basis that is excluding Pertra [ph]. We saw a strong cash flow from operations


at $116.8 million substantial improvement on a comparable basis to the third quarter of last year


and it should also be seen on the background of cash investment in multi-clients of $18.8 million


and capital expenditures of $14.2 million.


The main driver of the improvement in EBITDA from $90.7 million to $97.4 million quarter-to-quarter


was marine and improvement of $31 million on shores [ph] to a decline for the reasons I already


discussed and productions were declined also of $15.4 million due to partly the on the line decline


in production on the main vessels and partly more maintenance or either maintenance cost due in


the quarter than the third quarter of 2004. I will now hand over to Gottfred Langseth who will take


you through the main results for the different business units.
raw transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President


Thank you. I will start with Marine Geophysical and we had the contract revenues some $107.6


million in the quarter, which is 16% up from Q3 in ’04 and it is despite a reduction of the portion of


vessel [ph] capacity that we used in the contract segment compared to last year we used. 72% of


steamer capacity for contract segment looking Q3 this year and compared to 86% in Q3 last year.


The strong improvement reflects strong pricing increase and strong performance by our vessels.


We had a contract margin for Tug [ph] steamer, which exceeded 25% in third quarter. Weather in


the North Sea was difficult in the third quarter impact on our performance and margins was had a


limited, mainly due to good provisions and protection against whether in our contracts, in addition to


good performance on our vessels. Multi-client late sales totaled 34.6 million, which is 33% up from


third quarter 2004 a bit lower than we saw in first and second quarter of this year in line with the


guidance, that we have previously given. Pre-funding revenues was 104% of cash investments in


the third quarter, which is a strong improvement over Q3, 2004. We had a several highly presented


projects in the North Sea, in the third quarter which more than covered the fuel cost on this surface


[ph].


Operating profit is 50 million compared to 6.8 in Q3 2004. Strong improvement, important to note


that there are a 4.3 million of one of the items in the operating profit, but despite that is significant


increase compared to last year. Marine acquisition contract backlog were significantly up 283


million at the end of September, compared to 160, 3 months back and actually 3 times the backlog,


1 year back, end of Q3 of 2004.


I am moving to the slide illustrating vessel disposition, which shows that in Q3 this year, we had


fairly limited part of our capacity for Yard and Steaming, whereas multi-client work increased quite


significantly, who use 17% of steaming capacity for multi-client in Q3 this year, compared to 9% of


Q3 2004. And as I mentioned, 72% for contract work compared to 86% contract in Q3, 2004.


Multi-client sales, short illustration shows total multi-client sales including both license and pre-


funding revenues which was $52 million in total for the third quarter which is significantly up from


$32 million in Q3, 2004. But lower than the 85 we had in the second quarter. That you can see


from the illustration all regions are improving with the one exception which is Gulf of Mexico.


Marine Geophysical key numbers, total revenues $171 million that is $37 million up from Q3 last


year, contract revenues over 107 as I have commented on. Multi-client revenue is 52, data


processing and all the revenues of $11.5 million, slowly improving, we had a very promising or


good development in the third quarter with profit in our DP activities, which is strong improvement


over earlier quarters, and the performance that we had last year, and so improvement is so


seemingly on track. Adjusted EBIDTA of 80.3 million is at 31 million improvement from Q3 last


year, and operating profit of 45.7, and in this table we have excluded those one-off items that I


mentioned, which is an improvement of 39 million over Q3 last year.


Moving to Onshore, which had a very weak Q3 results, following a weak Q2 results also, Svein


commented on the reasons which are high mobilization costs, charge to expense, and a delay of


our project in Nigeria, by a little bit more than a month from early Septometer to mid October, which


had an EBIT impact of approximately 6 million in third quarter. In addition, we had a delay of


significant late sales on multi-client data that we had pretty firm expectations to realize in the third


quarter. We now expect that to be realized in the fourth quarter instead.


On the positive side, we have successfully entered the North African market, and with three jobs for


14 [indiscernible] in Libya, total value of approximately $60 million, mobilization will be starting in