Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Communication, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

Please go ahead.

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS conference call in the company's third quarter 2016 results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President of IR and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open this line for questions. Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain misstatements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release in the annual report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård. I will start with the slide number 3. We have reported an EBITDA of $112.7 million, which is slightly above what we guided in the pre-guidance statement issued a couple of weeks back. MultiClient revenues $147.5 million in the pre-funding level of 134% which obviously still in this market is robust and also worth observing that at [ph] trough (01:56) point in the market as we have – we are sailing through, MultiClient accounts for 66% of our revenues in Q3 which is clearly intended as we embarked on a growth strategy for MultiClient back in 2010, and I'll revert to that a little bit later. Liquidity sits at $470.3 million, and we are on track to deliver approximately $120 million in cash cost reductions.

Briefly on the order book, approximately $190 million which is slightly down from early previous quarter, but we have, however, experienced quite good order intake after the cut of the quarter. Vessel booking sits at 70% for Q4 which is still on the low side of what we would have liked. But on the other hand sensitivity to the numbers when it comes to these percentages is limited in the contract space. Typically unmoved from 70% to 80% would represent a sensitivity of over $6-ish million on the EBITDA. So that's not where the main sensitivity sits for the rest of the year. It's really down to MultiClient performance.

For the first quarter, we have six of them booked which is quite comfortable and we have a decent pipeline of leads. We are following to book up the rest of the quarter. 20% is booked for second quarter next year and this is pre in the North Atlantic work which normally will put its mark on the bookings for the Q2 and Q3 next year.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 7 with the heading consolidated statement of profit and loss summary. Revenues for the quarter, $224 million which is in line with what we had in Q3 last year. Strong -growth of MultiClient revenues since the Q3 last year, primarily late sales, offset by the reduction of marine contract and imaging revenues.

EBITDA for the quarter, $112.7 million, that as well more or less at par with what we had in Q3 last year. EBIT, excluding impairment and other charges, negative $5.4 million. We had a net of impairments and other charges of $6.1 million in the third quarter, $9.2 million relating to the impairments of some surveys in the MultiClient library, and partly offset by a $3.1 million credit from a reduction of the provision for onerous contract. And after these charges, the EBIT, as reported, was negative $11.5 million.

And let's get to the next slide, slide 8, Q3 operational highlights. total MultiClient revenues of $147.5 million in the quarter. Out of this amount, pre-funding amounted to $84.3 million, which corresponds to 134% of the capitalized cash investment in the quarter, late sales of $63.2 million in the quarter.

Marine contract revenues ended at $54.2 million, reflecting continued low pricing for contract work,

reflecting continued low pricing for contract work but with some seasonal improvement for work in the North Atlantic region.

And then move to the next slide, number 9, MultiClient revenues per region shows the quarterly development of our MultiClient revenues over the last three years. And looking across the chart, it shows that MultiClient revenues are holding up quite well for the third quarter. Europe was the main driver, the blue bar in the second part. Around half of our revenues that related to both late sales and pre-funding. In addition, North and South America contributed significantly in the quarter, North America primarily from pre-funding side and South America primarily on the late sales side.

Then I will move at a couple of slides down the deck and stop at slide number 14, proactive cost reductions continue in 2016. We continue to make significant progress on the cost side. 2016 gross cash cost now expected down to $675 million. It's $25 million less than earlier plan and expectation for the full year. The incremental cost reduction is driven by further capacity adjustments, including the warm stacking of Ramform Vanguard and other cost initiatives. Needless to say, cost management is one of our top priorities which is it's what it needs to be in these days.

Moving to slide number 15, the next slide, consolidated statements of cash flow summary. Cash flow from operating activities in the quarter $80.4 million. This is around $30 million less than the reported EBITDA explained by some increase in the working capital, which will make sales late in the quarter which obviously will then be collected and benefit the Q4 cash flow. With relatively moderate CapEx in Q3, we delivered a positive cash flow of the CapEx or before financing activities for the quarter.

Moving to slide number 16, balance sheet key numbers. Liquidity reserve of $417.3 million, of that amount, almost $80 million of cash. The remaining part of the liquidity reserve is the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility.

Net interest-bearing debt is sequentially flat in Q3. Year-to-date, there is an increase which primarily relates to the new build CapEx for the year relating to the delivery of Tethys in the first quarter and to the launching of Hyperion, the last new build in the second quarter.

The next significant CapEx on the new build is at delivery when we will pay the final installment which will happen in Q1 2017 and that amount is fully funded by available export credit facilities.

The total leverage ratio as defined in our loan agreements was 3.96:1 at end Q3, more or less in-line with what it was at end Q2.

I will stop there, Jon Erik. And if you are ready, I will give the word back to you.

I am ready. And we move straight to slide number 20, a few comments on the market. Fundamentals obviously benefiting from higher and more stable oil price for two reasons. Number one, of course, there's more revenues coming into our customers; and number two, the customers have also been through a significant restructuring across the board, which has led to lower breakeven rates and therefore better cash flow also from a cost perspective.

We see that first and foremost playing out in somewhat stronger interest for MultiClient data even though we realize that [indiscernible] (10:49) it is in a potential upside, so we do expect variations quarterly, regionally quarter-to-quarter.

Contract market is still characterized by low pricing. And through this coming winter, vessel utilization is a challenge. We see, as we have already talked about, somewhat lower utilization in Q4. Others look softer on the Q1 perspective.

Moving to slide number 22, marine seismic volume and supply. These are kind of the best proxies for supply and demand. We have – they are not true supply-demand pictures, but they are reasonable proxies. Square kilometers is a proxy for demand. We are ending up this year with an industry-acquired acreage of 340,000 squares, which is at the high end of the range we talked about a quarter ago. So, at least from that perspective and despite the low utilization in Q4, the overall number ends up on the high side, which is thus an interesting observation on the margin, higher than the square kilometers the industry acquired in 2008 and 2009.

At that time, there were about 60 vessels; now we have 30, so that speaks to the productivity improvement that we have seen in this industry to the new vessels coming to the market. And, of course, again, we have taken the lead in that and are about to complete our investment program to get a differentiating fleet on productivity.

On the streamer side, the numbers are slightly higher in terms of streamer capacity than a quarter ago, and we are very high now on utilization of available streamers in the industry. Since very few streamers have been produced over the last two or three years, the pool of streamers available around the world has come down significantly while the streamers in use is down about 40% currently.

For the next summer, given that we are launching a new boat, we are taking back-on-back from warm stack and some other factors in play, we estimate that this streamer number will be down 35% from the peak in 2013.

So as you can see from the curve, with all the recent announcements of plants being owned and what we have been able to pick up of intelligence around, we see a slight increase in streamer count over the next couple of quarters.

So, to slide number 23, we have, over time, in PGS had an ambition to take the lead in all these four business areas. We have long had a commanding position in the marine seismic market with vessels that are more productive than any other vessel and therefore the lowest sort of cash cost per square of acquired data on comparable service. This speaks to the leadership in contract, this speaks to the leadership in operations, whether you look at it from a productivity or safety point of view.

In MultiClient, we have stretched to gain a similar set of key ratios at PGS. And as we see our business develop, we are getting quite close and in certain quarters better looking at ratios like, for instance, revenues to book value.

On the Imaging side, the client feedback has lately been rapidly improving, driven by capabilities, the people we have taken on board, and given by the recent technology successes we've had in the imaging field to the extent that from some of the key clients and more advanced clients, we now are very often rated as a best performer, at par with the best and up in that league. So we have come much closer also in Imaging to a leading performance even though on volume we still have a gap to close vis-à-vis [ph] CDG (15:26) that we consider to be the leader in this field.

Going to the next slide, 24, the first panel on the top left illustrates the growth in MultiClient revenue as share of our total, and you see how that has grown. Basically as this chief industry demand has shifted to more and more MultiClient, we have responded. And we took that decision already back in 2010 partly to respond to what we thought would be a market trend, partly to stabilize our performance in a very cyclical market given that MultiClient has to the cycle be more stable, less volatile, if you like.

We are in Q3 up to 66% MultiClient revenue. So clearly, in the trough, we are now standing solidly on the MultiClient foot as we had planned for and hoped for when we embarked on this new strategy back in 2010. And, of course, as a consequence, most of the EBITDA in this quarter is generated by MultiClient activities. One reason for the great performance in MultiClient in addition to having a superior sales force is the technology we use to acquire these data sets. We are using GeoStreamer where you can derive more information out of the data sets than you can with a conventional survey, i.e., lower shelf life for the data.

We have leading productivity that drives down the cost per square of the investments and, of course, then also for that reason improves the returns. And, of course, recently we have also capitalized on the high-quality imaging and the imaging technologies we attach to these data sets that further improves the returns for the library.

And the second panel, the mid-panel here illustrates over time our revenues to book value, and you see they fluctuate a bit. They were at the higher level from 8 to 12 coming down 14, 15 in the last 12 months due to the new cycle. But clearly, when you look at the stack of the bars on the last 12 months, above peers on this particular measure and this is probably the most compare of the measure you have between the MultiClient companies.

On the last panel, we will show the MultiClient investments. Two important observations. The decline in investments from 13 is mainly driven by lower cost of acquiring while the acquired squares are not that off year-on-year with the exception probably on the year-to-date where we are lower, we're down to 40% MultiClient investments, that there's an element of lower activity level for this year as well in the drop.

Now, interestingly enough, if we take the revenues and divide by our investments, you see a curve that over time is relatively stable. But bear in mind, we use cash cost as our investment term to measure whether we are draining or improving the balance sheet through our investments in MultiClient.

This is the only curve in the industry that over the last three years have shown an improving trend. And again even though these curves are not apples-to-apples between the players, the trending of the curves can clearly be compared and we are the only one showing a substantial stability or improvement in that ratio.

And then finally, even though we have gone heavy for MultiClients and have proven to be able to deliver good returns on the MultiClient investments we make, we have retained the flexibility to leverage to our recovery in the marine contract market. And we are a contract player with a differentiating productivity and a differentiating technology that we continue to leverage from. In the current market, mainly on monitoring for the service and some special surveys while a good chunk of the rest of the market is being commoditized for the time being. And therefore it's meaningful to have more MultiClient activity on board.

Finally, to the last two slides, slide 25, the guidance. Gross cash costs down to $675 million as Gottfred has mentioned already. MultiClient cash investments of approximately $200 million. We expect pre-funding to be about 100% as early as – approximately 100% given the strong performance of the three first quarters. And we plan for 40% of the active 3D capacity to be plot for MultiClients for the full year. CapEx is also a notch down from $225 million to $215 million, of which newbuild CapEx is approximately $165 million.

Finally, we are competitively positioned to navigate the current market environment with industry-leading MultiClient performance, with improved cash flow, adequate liquidity position with flexibility to address debt maturities in time, substantial cost reductions continue, industry-leading fleet with lowest cash cost per streamer, which leads to lowest cash cost per square, which actually is what we [indiscernible] (21:10) in the end ends up buying; and a significantly improved imaging performance and technology over the last couple of years, clearly reaping the benefits of increased MultiClient focus and increased MultiClient demand from our clients.

And with that, I hand back to operator for questions.

Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] We may take our first question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Yes. Hello. This is Christopher Møllerløkken in SpareBank 1 Markets. I have to warn you that I'm a bit technical with my question here. But it was basically due to the actuarial loss you booked on the pension plan in the third quarter on $44 million. In the annual report regarding this UK pension scheme, it seemed like this plan was closed for further accruals. Could you just describe what's happened in third quarter? I understand the dynamics of Brexit here but any risk for further accruals going down the road? Thank you.

I will take the short question and happy to have a discussion around this issue. PGS has historically have what you would call a final salary pension scheme, defined-benefit pension scheme in the UK was closed for new entrants in 2004 and changed over a number of years and finally during 2015, it was close to future accrued. What remains in the pension scheme is the accrued benefits in a way. And all the members are deferred members, and the scheme is generally funded with assets that we're pretty close to the actual and present value of the liabilities.

Following Brexit, and this is a long tail type liability in a way that the volume of pension payments would be over in a way starting from around 10 years from now and until 30, 35 years from now. Following Brexit – in the last valuation, we had two main parameters. It's the inflation rate that in a way regulates the pensions in the future increasing year by year, and then the discount rate where you take home this future pension payments and discount to net present value.

And since midyear, the discount rate, which is based on 15-year AA-rated corporate bonds had reduced from 3.2% to 2.2%. And in a way, with the long tail about here has a significant impact. At the same time, the inflation rate expectation in the UK has increased from 3.2% to 3.3%. That is the reason for the relatively big impact which is in a way recorded as a loss, but is presented in the balance sheet, and recorded through comprehensive income.

And I think you will find that in a way [indiscernible] (25:19) our pension liabilities are relatively moderate compared to the company size, but this is – if you talk to people in the UK, this is currently a major issue and it's created by what is hopefully a disconnect between interest rates and inflation expectation which is currently vastly negative really interest rates in the UK, which is no one knows but more likely to at some stage balanced out again than stay as it is or become worse. No near-term cash flow impact for PGS as again by saying that.

Yeah. That was actually my only remaining question. Thank you.

There are no further questions in the queue. [Operator Instructions] As there are no further questions, I'll now turn the call back to your host for any additional or closing remarks.

Yes. Thank you, all, for participating on the conference call and that concludes the call. And you have a continued nice day and nice evening, so goodbye.

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.