Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Thor Andre Lunder — Analyst, DnB NOR Bank ASA (Broker)
Ryan W. Kauppila — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Gary W. Stromberg — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call following the release of the company's earnings report third quarter 2011.

With us from management today are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, our CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications. Today, management will go through a selection of slides in the presentation available on the Web and we'll be referring to the number of the pages.

Before I turn the call over to Jon Erik, I'd like to make a comment on the forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of the conference call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from the projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in PGS's annual reports.

By that, I'll turn over the call over to Jon Erik.

Thank you, Tore and we will start with slide number three, just to read the highlights of the Q3 financial performance with EBITDA of $153.2 million. Cash flow from operations of $149.6 million, very strong MultiClient sales $144.2 million, in fact the strongest third quarter we've ever recorded and the third strongest overall. Disappointment from us is the Marine contract EBIT margin of 4% which I'll come back to in a later slide to explain, obviously below what we have planned for and expected. Then on the other hand, External Data Processing also is the strongest third quarter ever recorded. Then there is a non cash effect on the earnings per share level that Gottfred will come back to. It has to do with currency exchange ratios and the cuts on the quarter compared to the previous quarter. In summary, we are increasing our guidance from 2011 EBITDA of $525 million.

Just a quick look on slide four, which basically shows the performance through what we consider the trough of the cycle driven by the supply and demand balance as seen there to some extent but also if we look at the improvement in cash from operations that's coming through.

Slide number five, visibility currently in the four to five months range when it comes to the backlog, likely a reflection of the combination of the North Sea season coming to an end and that we haven't seen any rewards yet for the next North Sea season.

There is quite a difference between the demand for GeoStreamer and the general demand for conventional solid streamers and I'll come back to that as well. And for the general market conventional, we do see as we said the last quarter flat pricing. But in balance to this reduction in backlog, we have to say that there is a very attractive MultiClient pipeline that I'll also like to come back later on in the discussion.

And then with that I'll sum up. We do see – still see a steady increase year-on-year in demand expressed in square kilometers per year. We see a healthy growth both in the MultiClient and the Data Processing segments. We can confirm that the bidding for the 2012 North Sea season has started but it's too early to see any directional change in price. However, we have commented earlier in the call that we are bidding at the higher level for 2012 than we did for 2011.

Then when it comes to Q4 and Q1, we do see a challenging contract market, a more challenging one than what we anticipated at the cut of the second quarter, driven by the large number of vessels coming out of the North Sea, in combination with lack of sufficient bid opportunities to take up that capacity.

Differentiation is becoming increasingly important in terms of data quality and productivity. And we do see the GeoStreamer segments in many good MultiClient opportunities and contract opportunities. And we do see still interest in very strong demand in Barents and North Sea, especially in the MultiClient space on the back of the activity this year and the discoveries made this year.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth.

Thank you. I will start on slide number nine to comments on some significant financial and tax items that impact the earnings per share in the third quarter, starting first with the financial items. On the positive side, we recorded gains from sale of shareholdings with $7.4 million, more than offsetting that recorded around $10 million of loss from foreign currency translation, which includes the translation of deposit accounts in Brazil for the ISS dispute there. In the quarter the, U.S. dollar has strengthened quite significantly against the Norwegian krone, close to 10%. Then falling back quite a bit after the turnover in the quarter and the change compared to the Brazilian real; it is more significant.

We also had around $2 million loss relating to the repurchase of $51 million our convertible notes which we repurchase in July at the price 98.5% of par. And lastly, in the financial items, we recorded a write-down on warrants to purchase Geokinetics stock of close to $3 million as a result of reducing share price in the quarter.

I should mention also that with respect to the convertible loan that we have to the company, SeaBird, we have not made any further write-downs of that loan in the third quarter.

Moving on to tax. Tax was impacted by significant non-cash tax charges in the quarter. Most importantly, the total deferred tax expense in the quarter of $21 million with two primary drivers. Firstly, our substantial tax assets which are primarily in Norwegian krone and other non-U.S. currencies translated as quarter end FX, higher dollar rates giving less of a dollar value of tax assets. And the change is primarily recorded to the P&L as tax expense. Also, we do not recognize in the balance sheet any tax assets related to foreign currency losses in Brazil.

On the current and payable taxes year-to-date, they are modest, $5.2 million. And in the third quarter in isolation, there is an estimated and recorded current tax benefit of $4 million.

And then turn to slide number 14, to comment on the group cost development in the quarter. This slide shows the total cash cost in the group, including the amounts that are capitalized in the MultiClient library. We had an increase of $17 million from second quarter. Primary reasons for this increase is growth in our processing activities and also higher research and development costs than we had in second quarter. We had higher project variable costs, which will vary based on which area and region we execute the project, and it primarily relates to support vessels, crew boats, helicopter for crew change and security.

Further, in the third quarter, we had less capitalization of vessel operating cost during yard stays, as a result of limited yard activity. In the first half, we had significant yard activity, more costs went into tax loss as part of CapEx. Then the fuel cost it's $3 million higher in the third quarter than the second. And lastly, we recorded [ph] an (10:09) expense $6 million of net release of deferred steaming in the third quarter. In the second quarter, the impact of steaming deferral was zero.

And then we move on to slide number 15, consolidated statement of cash flow. We had cash flow from operations of [ph] $176 million (10:38), a significant increase from this quarter last year. [indiscernible] (10:42) we can improve EBITDA, as well as better working capital development. In cash flow from financing activities, which totaled a cash outflow of $67 million for the repurchase of the convertible notes, $51 million is included and in addition, a net repurchase of treasury stock of $9.5 million.

Slide number 16, balance sheet. We have a very strong balance sheet position, with total assets of $2.9 billion and shareholders' equity of $1.7 billion, which corresponds to a 60% equity ratio. The liquidity reserve standing at $524 million. Gross interest bearing debt $750 million, reduced from previous quarter primarily as a result of the repurchase of convertible notes earlier mentioned. So lastly, net interest bearing debt of $421 million.

With that I [ph] give the word (12:10) back to Jon Erik.

Thank you, Gottfred. We move to slide number 19. A quick review of the trend in the North Sea market that has over the last five years become much more of a MultiClient market. [ph] Since this increased (12:24) our home base and stronghold in MultiClient, we see that as a good opportunity to continue the good investment and it is actually the MultiClient market and we have been able over time to harvest most.

Okay, I hope we still have the participants in the call. This is Jon Erik Reinhardsen with PGS. I, for some reason lost the connection here on slide number 19. As far as we understand [ph] from this (12:48). So I will continue with the North Sea market that has trended towards more and more MultiClient which we for PGS consider positive since this is sort of our home turf, MultiClient and where we have taken out most of the benefits from the GeoStreamer technology over the last three years and we continue to do so.

There are other attractive MultiClient opportunities, slide 20, Eastern Mediterranean planning license rounds for next year. A significant pipeline of MultiClient opportunities in West Africa and Angola in particular. And then obviously Crystal IV in the Gulf of Mexico. Now I have received some feedback from this morning's presentation that the fact that we didn't sort of state Q1 Gulf of Mexico re-entry has created some uncertainty, whether this was not as likely. I just want to clarify that the reality for us is that there are competing, attractive MultiClient opportunities of the same magnitude in combination with another strong North Sea season coming next year, that makes us unable today to give a specific date for the Gulf of Mexico but we will of course prioritize this in line with what makes most sense for the company.

It's not that there is a lack of opportunity in the MultiClient space but rather the contrary and also of course driven by a high interest for our GeoStreamer technology also in the contract market. I am convinced that end of next year, we will have Gulf of Mexico mobilized from all players with another 10% for global capacity in there, but I think the timing between the different players will depend on what kind of opportunities they see in the different markets. Just as to clarify that.

Then to slide number 21, the Q3 marine contracts, that was lower than we expected and planned for. At first, of course, given the high priority, with the MultiClient in terms of GeoStreamer, we only had about 30% of our contract capacity being GeoStreamer. That impacts the margin somewhat compared to what we had earlier had planned for.

The marine contract market is the North Sea that has expected to be strong, was, also in our [indiscernible] (15:26) for example we only had one vessel in the contract market in the North Sea and that's the conventional solid streamer vessel. Did well, but doesn't weigh more than one vessel in the total fleet capacity. Third bullet, we have this quarter done the most northern 3D survey as far as we have ever, and this was offshore Greenland. It's the fourth year in a row in the Arctic for us with GeoStreamer. The productivity has been high and was planned to be high but this particular year, we had more operational challenges due to challenging conditions. And that has in specific to do with more ice floating around, much more ice than we have seen the last three seasons, that has impacted the productivity and the margins and also, of course, represented significant learnings for future operations in Arctic that we have gained a lot of experience in over the last four years.

There is an element in this quarter of an effect of longer-term contracts changing in terms of – you may recall that we extended the contract with the Japanese authorities, METI/Geomec, end of the second quarter for another six years. And that has also – part of that extension negotiations changed the margin somewhat.

And then, finally, two of our low-end 6-streamer vessels have in this quarter, negative EBIT margin, partly driven by market – weakness in the markets they're in but also by specific operational challenges that are independent on the two occurrences in very different markets, one in Africa and one in Asia-Pacific. But both of them related to the age of the vessels, and that's, of course, why we have committed to new build, so we, over time can phase out these vessels. So in short, bullet number three, the survey offshore Greenland and bullet number five, two low-end vessels are what we would call one-off, characterized to this quarter and those two alone could explain a significant part of the deviation in margin from what we had planned for and expected earlier on.

And then we will look to slide number 27, market activity. Just to say that the way we monitor global bid activity and as consistently have done so since 2004 have not shown a big uptick in this quarter as we have seen in the previous two quarters in terms of getting what that could be driven by, slower pick-up in the North Sea bidding. And one reason for that could be that North Sea is more and more of a MultiClient market.

There are significant bid opportunities in West Africa and Brazil. And as we have said before, we are starting to see [indiscernible] (18:39) developing into two [indiscernible] (18:41) in terms of GeoStreamer versus non-GeoStreamer capacity where the interest in the GeoStreamer space is much stronger. But since this is sort of global bid volume curve, it doesn't weigh in that much with the GeoStreamer share of that.

Capacity is growing at a relatively slow pace at the moment. We see 7% this year, 7%, and next year 5%. While the square kilometer growth still we expect that should grow 12% to 13%, 2011 over 2010. That was slide number of 28.

And then finally to the two last slides, slide number 30, we do see full year MultiClient share of streamer capacity of approximately 30% of the total capacity. We do expect the Q4 MultiClient revenues to come down. Partly it's a little caution in terms of some uncertainties related to the Gulf until we have seen when the next license plans are announced, and partly driven by the fact that we had lower MultiClient activity on the acquisition side in the fourth quarter and therefore lower pre-funding revenues. We also expect to increase [indiscernible] (19:59) Q4 over Q3 and several [indiscernible] (20:03). We do expect the marine contract EBIT margin [indiscernible] (20:11) to be approximately 10%. And we continue to see strong growth in the Data Processing area.

So in summary, a quarter characterized by strong MultiClient and Data Processing delivery, but a weakness, or below what we had planned for and expected ourselves in the marine contract market, a significant part of that is [indiscernible] (20:37) driven by three one-off surveys. We increased the EBITDA guidance to approximately $525 million. The CapEx will be around $275 million for the year and the MultiClient cash investments approximately $200 million, with prefunding level of approximately 100%. And with that, I complete the presentation and hand over to managing the questions.

Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session, please.

[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Thor Lunder of DnB. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. I have one question on MultiClient sales, which was exceptionally strong in the U.S. Is it extremely important that you actually get the dates for the Eastern and Central lease sale in order to see [ph] success sales (21:55) from that region as well? Or, I'll put it in another way, what is the actual announcement for the lease sales in December that's triggered all these sales in the U.S. Gulf and that you also need that lease [indiscernible] (22:08)?

Let me answer ,Thor, in the way of saying that the dominant share of the MultiClient sales in the last two quarters relates to our Crystal III survey in the Western Gulf. Of course, it's clear that that announcement has triggered sales from our library in the Western Gulf.

And one question on the contract margin. You guide of around 10% which, I believe, should correspond to around, and well above 15%, maybe 17% for the fourth quarter. And I saw some comments on Bloomberg here that you commented that 15% to 20% is too high EBIT margin going into 2012, so just wondering [indiscernible] (22:58) how that adds up?

Well, they're basically two different things. One is sort of a run rate, where we had earlier alluded to, that we saw a run rate into 12% or 15% to 20%, we just now say that that is probably on the high side of our [ph] fiscal (23:15) today. And the other one is sort of the residual calculation for the full year of what we come out of the fourth quarter, which is more standalone quarterly comment.

Okay, thanks. That's very helpful. And also one last, if I may, on the GeoStreamer. I noticed that [indiscernible] (23:33) yesterday that they will re-shoot [ph] parts through (23:39) the North Sea speed with [ph] both prices (23:42). Would you categorize that as a competitor to GeoStreamer, in terms of data quality?

These are two different technologies in the offering, a more broadband response. And they have ensured today that when customers primarily ask for when they ask for broadband, they are going to see that there are more and more broadband bids emerging. And then some customers are basically trying to run comparisons between the two and so far, we have been encouraged by those. But we welcome, actually, that there is a couple of players in the broadband, because that means that customers can focus their vision in that direction. They are both offering a broadband response, and then we are both working on improving that. It is impossible and now that we show today with the [indiscernible] (24:38) technology in the direction of higher resolution with resource. And then the customers will have to determine all the time what they prefer, basically.

Okay, thanks.

And we will take our next question from Ryan W. Kauppila of Citigroup. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good afternoon. Just, could you share with us what your seeing in the Gulf, as far as how the market is developing? To hear that you're weighing other opportunities versus the timing of returning the Gulf, is a bit surprising. Are you seeing lower than expected pre-funding, or just – could you elaborate just what exactly you're seeing?

Well, we think there's more, a relative consideration within some users when it comes to how do we deploy our fleet, we have earlier referred to the Gulf as the important fleet to take off the capacity – if that capacity is taken in other market that comes in addition, that is equally well for the overall [indiscernible] (25:47) in the market. So from that perspective, that's no big difference.

But we've seen, and continue to see, the Gulf of Mexico as a very attractive region to invest in going forward when it comes to the [ph] marketing in that (26:07) space. So for us, it's more a manner of different opportunities competing for us, capacity which main mean a shift over a few months between what we could have done and what we may end up doing. But we may still start up Gulf of Mexico late in Q1, depending on how these other opportunities mature. They start as a normal, there is a race between a few opportunities in terms of who will get the [indiscernible] (26:33) in the very short term. Any – and if another opportunity [indiscernible] (26:38) that the Gulf of Mexico waits another few months before we move here. But there's nothing big, dramatic over that in terms of seeing Gulf of Mexico as less attractive. But I do think it's important for to say, and they will be in general, that the next sort of license round in the Eastern Central Gulf is announced. And that's an important figure, at least reading from how it has, the Western lease round has triggered sales from our library over the last three quarters.

Okay. And sort of a related question on the North Sea, as that market moves [indiscernible] (27:18) a greater share of MultiClient. Do you think that has any longer term structural implications?

Yeah. I mean that the reason that, in my view, is probably that we are moving into a more of a client basis on a permanent basis. I think it will – think it's a shift at that on the others. And in a tighter market, we always consider how we distribute our vessel capacity related to what kind of earnings potential there are in the different segments. And obviously, when contracts margin was hitting 50% EBIT, we only had 15% of our capacity allocated to MultiClient. While, in the current market, we have higher shares allocated to MultiClient, because we make the higher EBIT margin. If you take the last two quarters, where our share of MultiClient capacity has gone up, driven by higher profit in the MultiClient segment than in the contract segment. That's how we play the capacity over time.

And that could be affected as we swing back to more contracts later on. But as a matter of fact, if we look isolated on the profit that we are making in the North Sea in MultiClient, that at the level that is – there're are not many years in [indiscernible] (28:38) with that, and even in a contract market. So, it may well be that that is sustainable distribution on MultiClient versus contract that we see coming through now.

And do you expect, if that trend continues, that competitors without that MultiClient capability may offer some consolidation opportunities down the road?

That's not what we primarily are looking for on our part. The direction we have taken in terms of growth is really to commit to some newer vessels that would add capacity and profit [ph] substitute (29:19) the older vessels. And I will not speculate into consolidation. It's definitely not on our behalf. But clearly, it means that playing in the North Sea means you need to have a MultiClient model at hand, in the company, for that – to optimize the benefits of that market.

Okay, that's great. Thank you very much.

[Operator Instructions] We will take our next question from Gary Stromberg of Barclays Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, good afternoon. Two questions for you. First is, you guided to $200 million in MultiClient cash investment for the year. Year-to-date, I think you're around $175 million. Does that imply fourth quarter drops to only $25 million?

Yes, Gary. Approximately, we've said also that that we expect, for the full year, approximately 30% of our active capacity will be used for MultiClient. So it also means that we will have correspondingly less capacity in the MultiClient segment and for MultiClient activities in the fourth quarter.

Okay. And then, we're a month into the fourth quarter, late sales were quite strong in the third quarter at $83 million. What are you seeing, thus far, in this quarter and directionally, do you expect fourth quarter to be higher or lower than the third quarter level, expect some seasonality, right?

I don't think it's fair to give any sort of lifetimes on the way in the quarter here. Normally, a lot of the late sales in the fourth quarter comes in December, and we're not there yet. So what we're currently doing is closing some deals and acquiring leads for stuff to be closed. And that's – to give more quality to that now, it's too early.

Okay. No, that's all I had. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] We currently have no more questions in the queue.

Okay. So we thank you all for participating and have a nice day. Thank you.

Thank you for your participation. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect.