Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lars Ragnar van der Bijl Mysen — General Counsel, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rune Olav Pedersen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, Carnegie Investment Bank AB (Norway)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S participants. Welcome to PGS's Conference Call Presenting the Company's Second Quarter and First Half 2018 Results. My name is Lars Mysen, General Counsel of PGS. With us from management today are Rune Olav Pedersen, President and CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, EVP and CFO.

At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks and referring to the slides available on our web page, and then open up the line for questions. Before I turn the call over to Mr. Pedersen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call.

Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future, and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the 2017 Annual Report.

I, thereby, turn the call over to President and CEO of PGS, Mr. Rune Olav Pedersen.

Thank you, Lars, and hello everyone. Our Q2 2018 revenues were $199.4 million. I'm on slide 3. Our EBITDA were $136 million, which is the highest EBITDA we have recorded since the fourth quarter of 2014. This was mainly due to solid MultiClient performance in the quarter, where total segment MultiClient revenues were $162.7 million of which late sales represented $68.7 million and confirming the strong demand we have seen for data in our library from the previous quarters.

Pre-funding revenues of $94 million, with a pre-funding level of 116%, which is also strong. We are

also very pleased to report our first positive EBIT quarter in two-and-a-half years. This is an important milestone for the company in our work to turning this company profitable again.

The Marine Contract market is still challenging but it is now time to say that it is also improving. There are several factors, which I will come back to on the market update, which supports a statement that we are in a improving Marine Contract market and bids and leads curves, which I will come back to are one

important factor – is one important factor. All-in-all we are on track to be cash flow positive after debt service in 2018, which is our key financial target for the year.

I will now turn to slide number 5, [ph] reading (03:17) order book. The order book, as of the end of the second quarter of 2018, was $187 million. As of yesterday, we had booked 40 vessel months going forward. That is 23 vessel months in the third quarter, one month is missing or not booked and the reason for that is that Ramform Titan is currently in Las Palmas waiting for work and we expect that she will start operating in West Africa in the beginning of August, and therefore we have lost a month. In the fourth quarter, we have booked 12 vessel months and in the first quarter of 2019, 5 vessel months.

It is important to note the difference between the order book and what we refer to as booked. First of all, the order book is as of 30 June 2018 and it is a formalistic definition. It has to be a signed contract or a signed Letter of Award for anything to put into the order book. The vessel booking is as of yesterday and it – we will regard something as booked under the vessel booking when we know that we are going to do the work either because clients have told us, yes you have the job, but that contract, for some reason, has not yet been signed, which is the typical example that we are negotiating some final details, but it is clear that we will do the job. Or similarly if we have a – we know we're going to do the MultiClient project, but pre-funding, for some reason, is not yet signed up.

So, therefore, there is a meaningful difference this time around between the booking months and the order book as we are currently in the final phase of negotiating several large contract and MultiClient projects, which will then move into the order book once we have them signed.

With this, we expect to achieve acceptable utilization in the fourth quarter. And I remind everyone that we will focus on utilization and profitability for six vessels in the fourth quarter before we make any decision on whether to introduce a seventh vessel or an eighth vessel in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of 2019.

And with that I leave the word to Gottfred Langseth, our CFO.

Thank you. I will make some comments first at slide number 7, consolidated key financial figures. At the bottom of this table, we show the specific numbers relating to our segment reporting, which is based on, for practical purposes, the percentage of completion for new MultiClient projects and pre-funding. And these are the numbers that Rune introduced commenting on. The revenues in the quarter, $199.4 million, is a 17% reduction from Q2 2017.

We had particularly high revenues in Q2 last year, primarily since significant share of the late sales revenues in 2017 were captured in the second quarter and also that the second quarter of last year was the quarter where we operated the most vessels and had nine vessels in operation. The segment EBITDA, $136 million, is an increase of 21% compared to Q2 2017. And lastly segment EBIT turned to $13.6 million positive versus a loss of $8.7 million in second quarter 2017.

When it comes to the as reported numbers, which are the numbers reported in accordance with IFRS 15, I would just quickly comment on the revenues and EBIT, which are both significantly higher in the second quarter than what we have as the segment numbers, [ph] $14 million (08:10) higher revenues in Q2, and $44 million higher year-to-date. The difference is timing related, it depends on, under IFRS 15, the revenues are booked or recorded when data is completed and delivered to customers.

The difference between the two methods would vary from quarter to quarter. We have had the positive significant difference, a higher IFRS revenues in the first half, we expect IFRS revenues to be lower in the second half, but this is primarily a technical and timing difference.

Moving to slide number 8, Q2 2018 operational highlights, the main MultiClient numbers have already been commented on. We had most of our vessel capacity acquiring MultiClient projects in the second quarter, and had capitalized cash investments of $81.3 million in the quarter. We had strong pre-funding revenues on this activity, 116%, and as illustrated in that graph to the top right with the purple line. Again, we are at the high-end of our targeted pre-funding range, which we have more or less consistently been for the period illustrated here.

The contract revenues in the second quarter were low, $29.7 million, and that relates to very low allocation of acquisition capacity to contract activities, only 12% of our total capacity acquired contract seismic in the quarter.

Moving to quite a bit down to slide number 13, which [ph] is – have (10:18) the group cost focus delivers results. We maintain our gross cash cost guidance for the year of $600 million. The graph here shows the quarterly development of cash costs. And the second quarter costs are sequentially down in accordance with plan. By now, in a way, the cost reductions that we implemented end of last year are taking full or at least almost full effect. In addition, the quarter is impacted by relatively low production or vessel utilization. The third quarter is likely to show somewhat higher cost due to higher production on the vessels. Our full year gross cash cost estimate is based on reducing investment capacity down to 6 vessels from early Q4.

Then the next slide, number 14, consolidated statements of cash flows summary. We had cash flow from operating activities of $121.7 million in the quarter. The improvement from second quarter 2017 is primarily due to higher earnings and a better working capital development. We made payments of severance and other restructuring provisions made end last year of $12.5 million in the second quarter and year-to-date $26.8 million.

Moving to slide 16, good headroom to maintenance covenant, this slide just illustrates where we are versus the requirements on total leverage ratio in the revolving credit facility. And as you can see, the ratio has reduced quite a bit over recent quarters. And it now stands at 2.83:1, which is substantially down from a year back, where we were at 4.39:1. And we expect to be in compliance going forward.

Slide number 17, just quickly on this one. This is a summary of debt and drawing facilities. There is not much change compared to last quarter. We have made $13 million of scheduled debt – repayment of long-term debt primarily the Japanese export credit financing and we've reduced the drawing on the revolving credit facility by $5 million in the quarter.

With that, I will hand the word back to you, Rune.

Thank you. I think we will jump to slide number 20, marine seismic market outlook. We still believe that higher oil price and the improved cash flow amongst our clients in combination with the very low spend on exploration in recent quarters and years will start to benefit our market fundamentals going forward. We've already seen that over the beginning of this year in the MultiClient segment, where we've had

fairly strong sales from the library, both in the fourth quarter, the first quarter and now in the second quarter.

And for the Marine Contract market, we find it appropriate now to say that we see signs of improvement in this market as well. Several indicators are pointing in the right direction. I will come back to, on the next slide, the high number of leads and bids that we are now seeing. We are hearing it in our client communication and we have experienced higher pricing in the first half of 2018 than we did in the first half of 2017.

And all of this in spite a fairly low order book, we believe that we are in an improving contract market even if it is still a challenging place to be. And it is, as we say here, the strength of the recovery we are in is still uncertain.

So with that, I'll move to slide 21, where you see our leads and bids curves, which we give you every quarter. And as you can see, it is at its highest levels for more than three years, which is – and the trend has been upward for more than a year now, which is a strong indicator of what I have just been through an improving contract market.

The recent increase is primarily driven by new project in West Africa. But we have also seen bids come out for the 2019 Europe season. And that is significantly earlier than what we have seen in the last years, which is another strong indication of an improving market.

Our estimation of acquired 3D seismic in 2018 is on the graph below there. And we believe that we will, in 2018, acquire somewhat more seismic than we did in 2017 as an industry. And we believe that better utilization of the world fleet will cater for this improvement.

Moving now to slide 23, the guidance. As Gottfred already alluded to, we keep our guidance of group cash cost of approximately $600 million. We up our guidance on MultiClient cash investments to approximately $300 million. And correspondingly, we up our indication that we will use now 65% of our active CD vessel time on MultiClient. Our CapEx is still unchanged at approximately $50 million for the year.

Now moving to the final slide, the slide 24, so in conclusion, Q2 in conclusion, we have high MultiClient activity with solid pre-funding revenues. We experienced good MultiClient late sales, which demonstrates a continuance of the strong trend from previous two quarters. Marine Contract market is, as I have said, is challenging, but it is improving; and we are very happy to report the first positive EBIT quarter in two-and-a-half years.

In conclusion, tight overall cost controls remains a priority and needs to remain a priority for us to achieve the main financial targets for this year, namely to be cash flow positive after debt service and we are on track to achieving that.

And with that, I hand the word back to you, Lars.

Yes, I think then we can facilitate the Q&A session. So, operator, can you please help us do so.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] We'll hear first from Christopher Møllerløkken with Carnegie.

Yeah. Good afternoon gentlemen. You are now expecting the volume of acquired marine 3D seismic to be somewhat higher in 2018 versus 2017. At the Q1 presentation, you expected this volume to be roughly flat. What has caused the upward revision?

It's – what we've seen is better or more bids and more leads and we believe that the world fleet will be better utilized in particular in Q4 of this year versus Q4 of last year and that should cater for the increase, all the increase of acquired seismic, that is the main point.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Then I think we want to say thank you all for participating at our Q2 and first half 2018 earnings call and we wish you a continued nice day and you may now disconnect. Okay. Good bye.

Thank you. Bye-bye.