Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Fiona M. Maclean — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Caroline L. Hickson — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
John A. S. Olaisen — Analyst, ABG Sundal Collier Norge ASA
Morten Nystrøm — Analyst, Nordea Bank Norge ASA (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to U.S. participants. Welcome to the conference call presenting PGS' Second Quarter Results. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications. With us today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, referring to the slides available on our website, then we'll open the lines for questions.

Before turning over the call to Jon Erik, I'd like to comment on some forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. And factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in our latest annual report.

By that, I hand over the call to Jon Erik Reinhardsen. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Tore, and good morning to those of you overseas. Good afternoon here in Europe. As you all know, we notified the market last week about our unsatisfactory Q2 results. The negative deviation to the plan is primarily caused by the delay in securing pre-funding for the Triton survey, taking into account that Triton represents close to half of our MultiClient investments so far this year, and we are employing around 25% of our production capacity.

I will come back to Triton later in the presentation, but now I'd like to comment a bit on the quarter per se. MultiClient performance in Europe is record strong. Investments are not record high, and therefore are very satisfactory performance. The pre-funding level from a declined ex-Triton is robust with close to 140% of capital cash cost year-to-date, and more 150% in Q2.

Our marine contract business is delivering close to 20% EBIT margin in Q2 despite some challenging mobilizations for some contract as we talked about in the earlier message. Productivity in general, after the mobilization has been very good. Our imaging business delivers quality to customers at an acceptable EBIT margin despite some volume reduction in the quarter. And our cost reduction program is on track.

While we are in a less predictable market and see possible pricing pressure towards the year-end, we are well positioned with our strong balance sheet, our fleet of purpose built and efficient seismic vessels, with the leading broadband/multi-component technology in the market, and with the robust strategy focused on technology, productivity and shareholder return.

Due to the weaker than planned second quarter and the increased uncertainty on the demand side for the rest of the year, we have lowered our estimates for full year EBITDA to approximately $850 million with expectation of a stronger second half compared to the first half. Moving to slide number four, just quickly to observe that the quarter-on-quarter movements on revenues, EBITDA and EBIT are improvements, even though not as much as we had planned for. Cash flow is from operating activities is down, mainly driven by change in working capital. That [ph] prospect (03:56) we'll come back to later on.

Moving to slide number five, order book, end of quarter, $558 million. Good order intake in the quarter, even though June was a bit slower. Booking, 90% booked for Q3 2014, 45% for Q4 2014, 20% for Q1 2015. Order book is comparing well in U.S. dollars to Q2 2013, up 25%. Our impression when we look at [indiscernible] (04:33) also that there is a somewhat stronger backlog now than there was a year ago, combined with somewhat smaller fleet to feed, given the de-rigging of vessels.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth who will take us through some of the financials.

Thank you. I will start with the statement of operations summary. For the quarter, we had the revenues of $337 million, EBITDA of $170 million, and EBIT excluding impairments of $55 million. All that's reported to the market earlier. We had impairment charges in the quarter of $9.1 million relating to vessel and equipment retirement. Tax expense was relatively low, $4.9 million, and over 14% of pre-tax profit, primarily due to vessel operations in the Norwegian Tonnage Tax regime. After all of this, the net income was $29.7 million, giving an EPS of $0.14.

I then move to slide number eight, Q2 2014 highlights. Marine contract revenues ended at $171.5 million, with an EBIT margin of 19%. MultiClient revenues were $135 million. Pre-funding revenues of this was $75 million, and this corresponded to 75% of capitalized cash investment due to – which is relatively low due to the lack of pre-funding on the Triton survey in the Gulf of Mexico.

If we exclude that Triton survey, as already pointed out, the performance of the remaining MultiClient service is quite strong. So doing the pre-funding mechanics [ph] or mechs (06:50) on investments excluding Triton leaves a pre-funding of 157% of capitalized cash cost for the remaining part of the portfolio. We do still expect for the full year 2014 approximately 100% pre-funding, driven by expected Triton pre-funding in second half of the year and the fact that all the parts of our MultiClient portfolio are at our targeted pre-funding level or above.

I then move to slide 12, group cost focus delivers results. The cost picture looks good. We have a flat cost development compared to where we were in 2012 and 2013 despite increased capacity with the Ramform Titan and the Ramform Atlas coming into full operation. In Q2, the cost was positively impacted by our cost savings initiatives, a reduction of performance-based personnel costs, and some but not very much net steaming cost deferral in the quarter. We do expect costs to increase somewhat in the second half.

I move to slide number 13, the next slide, consolidated statements of cash flow summary. Cash from operating activities was low in the second quarter due to an unusually large swing in our working capital. The primary reasons were a significant increase of revenues in June; a back-end loaded cash flow on contracts which will be billed in the third quarter; and some customers' payments received with marginal delay after quarter end.

On the positive side, this should drive a strong cash flow from operating activities in the third quarter. I would also want to point out on this slide that so far this year, we've had almost $280 million of CapEx. That corresponds to two-thirds of the full-year CapEx expectations. So two-thirds of CapEx is already incurred and dealt within the first half. It will also impact our net cash flow negatively in the first half and correspondingly positive in the second half of the year.

And with respect to MultiClient investments, the same applies a little bit less with a bit over 60% of full year MultiClient investments already done in the first half. I then move to my last slide, which is number 15, significant free cash flow potential. We have a strong balance sheet, and we have also updated our illustration of 2014 sources and uses of cash based on the revised guidance for the year. Full year cash flow from operation is expected to be quite strong, and cover MultiClient investments and maintenance CapEx, interest, dividend and a significant portion of the new build CapEx as well. The remaining covered from our available cash and credit facilities.

Excluding the new build CapEx, we generate healthy free cash flow despite a somewhat challenging market. Completion of the new build program will make the foundation for a significant increase in our free cash flow and our dividend capacity going beyond 2015 as a result of reduced CapEx levels combined with an increase of our revenue base.

With that, I give the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you, Gottfred. We'll have a look at slide number 18, contract bidding activity. As for Q2 last year, we are currently at a low level on the curve, which, as for last year, indicated, risk of a weaker market towards the end of the year. However, the All Sales Leads are still relatively high and we see that the gap is really driven by a delay in conversion from leads to active tenders. I would say specific service is being pushed from end of this year into next year. The big gap and the sustained high level of All Sales Leads with very few cancellations is, to us, an indication that the current market weakness might be of shorter term nature.

Then we move a few slides out to slide number 23 just to state that cash cost per streamer, which is a derivative of productivity clearly is a key differentiator, and clearly, you can observe that the vessels now being decommissioned are the vessels with the worst productivity in the industry. So there is logic to the restructuring that is sort of playing out with currently, our view that about 13% of the streamer capacity as it was start of the year will be out by the end of next year.

So a couple of comments on the MultiClient business, that is a key part of our business. We have over the last years, used our differentiating GeoStreamer to redo quite a bit of the North Sea areas where there are legacy data 3D available, but where we now put a new layer of GeoStreamer data on top. Starting in small scale in 2009, but really ramping it up in 2010 and onwards. And as you see from the graph, very healthy returns with a average sales to cash investment now of 2.7, including the first half of 2014. Needless to say, one of the leading areas where we invest when it comes to return.

We have, last year, started to move northwards with the Northern North Sea and Norwegian Sea being covered last year and this year. And this year also, we are doing the Barents Sea Group Shoot, which, even though it's a contract now, will be turned into MultiClient data and end up in our library, even though with zero book value, but will be a start to also using the GeoStreamer in the Barents.

If we move to the next slide then, slide number 26, you will see that in the Gulf of Mexico, we have a similar level of return on our investments when it comes to the Crystal I to III. And therefore, it's been sort of a natural area to consider moving in with the GeoStreamer to start establishing the next generation of MultiClient data in the Gulf of Mexico. As you all know, Gulf of Mexico is the longest history of generations of MultiClient data on top of each other, and every generation shift has caused and triggered a lot of new investment opportunities and return opportunities.

This has been the driver for mobilizing the Triton survey. We have been pointed to an area that is prospective with a couple of very interesting discoveries within the framework we have been acquiring data over. It's also an area that is very complex geologically, and therefore with existing data being not of sufficient quality according to the players in the area. And therefore, a full azimuth GeoStreamer, with our high-end imaging technology being applied, has been what we have been aiming at. And we think that technology, and we've already seen how it has the potential to unlock some of the difficulties here.

This area is also unique in the sense of how it's positioned for lease rolls going forward through and including 2018. And we are now completing our acquisition early August, ahead of schedule, and below cost budget. We have also produced a fast track area in terms of imaging to have as a display product. The technical results are beyond our expectations, and we have interesting dialogue with a number of clients at the moment. And we still do see, despite the [ph] overshoot (17:05) situation that has emerged during the acquisition here, a very attractive commercial potential here. And we expect to secure pre-funding for the Triton in the second half. Clearly, with the history in the North Sea, with the potential in the Gulf of Mexico, we think that GeoStreamer could bring quite an interesting uplift for this region as well.

Moving to slide 27, we have good MultiClient sales performance from all vintages, and relatively low net book values on all vintages from 2009 to 2014. Also, when it comes to ongoing acquisition and ongoing surveys, the pre-funding, as you've seen, is very high, with Triton as the only exception. And we believe Triton, as we said, will bring pre-funding on board in the second half.

There are no current impairment indicators, but obviously, having North Sea and the Gulf with a sales to cash investment of 2.7, there must be some surveys in here with a lower return, and typically they are in two categories for us; one is a pool of 2D surveys that normally is being acquired very early in a province development history, and therefore, tend to have a longer return period than the accounting life.

Secondly, there is a group of surveys that are attractive from a geological perspective but has churned into a slower revenue story for different reasons, be it market, licensing reasons, licensing ground reasons, legislative reasons, or political reasons. Typical countries in this category is currently Brazil, Nigeria and Lebanon. So they will be on the low side, we still believe these surveys will sell, but the timing will – or has been dragging out. And some of them will be taken gradually down by the backstop mechanism, and in the amortization. Amortization is primarily based on the ratio of cost to forecasted sales, where the full year 2014 amortization rate is expected to be approximately 50%.

Next slide, near term market outlook. We see a sustained high and stable oil price. We see deep water as being attractive for the E&Ps. We see a flat demand development for 2014. The current low bidding activity indicates a risk of a weaker market towards the year-end as it did last year, and may negatively impact year-end pricing. However, the decommissioning of vessels is supportive for the supply/demand balance.

As we have already communicated, EBITDA is expected to be approximately $850 million, MultiClient cash investment of approximately $350 million, and capital expenditures of approximately now $425 million, which is $25 million down from what we have earlier communicated. Obviously, as for our oil companies, cash is important for us, and we are looking into ways of optimizing our cash also in PGS.

And with that, I turn back to operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have one question here from Fiona Maclean of Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Yes, it's Fiona Maclean at Merrill Lynch. I have two questions. The first, in terms of your dividend, can you maybe give us some guidance on where you think that is going to be for 2014 earnings given, at the moment, methane kind of potentially going to be lower this year than it was last year, now, you do have a payout ratio. Would you be expecting to pay a lower dividend on 2014 earnings versus 2013? So that's the first question. And then on the second question, I know you don't have a huge amount of visibility into 2015 as we stand today. But maybe given what you do know today and your experience of previous cycles, what would be your best guess on how the environment is going to be for seismic in 2015? Thank you.

Yes, Fiona, you're right. It's – the visibility is always a challenge. What we normally look into is, of course, having a view on the E&P spending service, and we get a new wave of that now coming through early this fall. And then, of course, the most sort of qualified factor for us is really what sits in this all sales leads curve or number, which is a probability weighted number that we consistently have applied with different probabilities to different regions based on history of what tends to come through of these opportunities.

The fact that that is high, and obviously it's a dollar, so it's calibrated with the market price, it's our indicator for next year saying we think it's not likely that next year in volume will be significantly down. It could rather, in my opinion, be up, and I've said that on earlier calls, from the 2014 level. Some of the – we have with some of our major clients also indicate that they are pushing work from this year into next year, having more headroom to play with for next year. Normally, when we come to Capital Markets Day in December, we are able to be more precise, if you like, on how we see next year and that will also be the same for the chain of events, if you like, for this year.

When it comes to dividend, we have committed to pay dividend. We want a stable as possible dividend development and try to minimize fluctuations, and we have a range of dividend payout ratio in our policy to help us mitigate those fluctuations. And that's sort of what I can say at the moment. But clearly, dividend is a very high priority to us going forward, and the funding of the newbuild is really taken care of as a separate matter through the export credit financing.

Okay. And just going back to 2015, if you do think volumes are going to be going up next year, do you think that will convert into better margin capture for PGS given there's going to be a lot of people chasing that additional volume, given it's been pretty low last year and also this year?

That's way too early to say in terms of how this will play out in margin and pricing next year. That's normally Capital Markets Day December, that's the first time we have an opportunity to say anything meaningful about that.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question from Christopher Møllerløkken of SB1. Please go ahead.

In terms of the decline in active tenders you noticed in June, was that a broad base in terms of geographies or were there any specific markets where you experienced the decline? Thank you.

I think the substance of this is down to a – could've been five and 10 more substantial tenders that are sort of slipping to the right on the time scale in terms of when they come for tender. So we have earlier anticipated that they would be coming in to the tendering stage now. And it now looks like that we'll come into the tendering stage early next year instead based on the communication we have with these customers. And it's – what do I say, I think, it's probably evenly distributed on a global scale. There are probably a couple of them that are big on nature individually, and therefore, has a bigger weight in it. But it's – I don't think there's a geographic pattern here that makes any sense to put any weight on.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Caroline Hickson of UBS. Please go ahead.

Hi there. Just on your contract margin, obviously, 19% this quarter, so down from last year. You mentioned mobilization and I think permitting issues. Can you quantify how much that impacted the margins so we can have some idea of what the improvement could be in the third quarter? And just secondly, you've talked about potentially weakness into 4Q. At the moment, are you thinking that this is – fourth quarter could be weaker than last year's or the same or better or worse? Thanks.

I will respond to the first question, Caroline, on the mobilization and issues that we experienced starting up new jobs in the second quarter. I should first say that it is always dangerous to pull up specific subsets of negative incidents and say that otherwise that would have been the case. We also have good productivity and all the positives in the quarter. But in isolation, I would estimate this to have had an impact up towards 5% on the contract launch.

And then to your other question, or two parts of the questions, we have all, for a while talked about the quarters of the year has been ticking up, so Q2 indicate it'd be higher than Q1. It is, but it's not as much higher as we thought, and we also said that Q3 is supposed to be higher than Q2 even from where we planned Q2 to be. And then for Q4, I think yes, we see that as coming down from Q3.

In terms of relation to last year, we had a decent Q4, and at this point in time, it's too early to indicate where that will come in. I think when you look at the coming season of say Q4, Q1, it's meaningful to look at Q4 and Q1 under one, and you will see that between the different players, last year, these two quarters vary quite a bit. One player could have a strong Q4 a weak Q1, and vice versa. And it depends a bit on timing of the different jobs you're able to put into your vessel schedule there. So I will not offer a comment on Q4 margin this year versus last year at this point in time. But it will be lower than the Q3 margin for sure.

Okay. So just to clarify, you said that the mobilization typically – sorry, the operation [indiscernible] (29:35) can have up to a 5% impact on the contract margin.

For the Q2 -

What I said was the issues that we experienced on four different mobilizations in second quarter, had we not had those, and they had been executed in accordance with plan, that would in isolation have an impact up towards 5 percentage points on the contract margin.

Okay. Did that impact your contract revenues as well or was it just higher costs?

No. It has impact on the contract revenues.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from John Olaisen of ABG. Please go ahead.

Hey, good afternoon, gentlemen. Looking into 2015, you're predicting about 5% increase in the supply side and the vessel capacity for the market. Assuming that demand is flattish, even slightly negative, it could end up in a situation where there would be a price war and negative price pressure on contracts rates. I wonder – how much more could you price this downwards in percentage terms before you are cash negative if we assume a normal CapEx level?

I think the market dynamics is likely to kick in in terms of further vessels being taken out, and regulating that 5% quite quickly down towards the lower number, John, if the prices started to come down further. So I think you would not see prices coming down and still seeing 5% increase next year. That's a combination that I don't think would play out.

But further on that dynamics, I think I'll leave that to more dialogue with board later on in terms of how that would play out. Also, we will obviously look at – when it comes to the PGS part of that, how we deploy CapEx, how much CapEx we need to spend, should the market be even tighter than – or even looser than it is today.

But is it possible to give an indication of how much you could sink price or lower prices before you are cash breakeven?

Eventually, I think -

Rough number.

We need to be careful on looking at the assumptions first. But if you look at our contract EBIT margin in the quarter, close to 20% depreciation equals the bit of – constitutes a bit over 10%, so a bit over 30% EBITDA margin. Generation on the contract side, we have quite a way to go into that way because – before we are cash negative on contract operations. And then it's down to the CapEx assumptions. But that would require an estimate on exactly how much on the capacity will be contract and so on. So I prefer to answer the question in a four-hour interview where we can be sure that we understand the premises for the answers so that it isn't misunderstood.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Morten Nystrøm of Nordea. Please go ahead.

Yes. Most of my questions have been answered. But just a follow-up on the contract margin here. I think it has like 35%, 36% in the third quarter last year. Obviously, you probably didn't allocate as much towards contract as you will do in the third quarter this year. But is it any like big events that will occur in the third quarter that you will need to consider when estimating the third quarter this year in terms of contract margins?

I'm not sure what you mean by big events, Morten.

I'm just saying that if – you said that you expected third quarter margins to be up compared to what you initially thought in Q2, and if you back things out here, it appears that you had expected like 25%-ish of the contract margin for second quarter. Then, I'm just asking is that the 36% you delivered last year, is that a good proxy also for the third quarter this year or is it too early to say?

No, it's not too early to say, but I don't think we can go into specific percentage numbers for the quarter we have just started and have here over and beyond what we have said already, and tying it up to the overall guidance.

Okay. And then my question on the bookings, you still have a lot of bookings to do for the fourth quarter. What are you seeing in terms of when do you expect, feel this at a solid level and have some more visibility with respect to pricing?

No. We would ask within last year expect these two book in month-by-month as we move forward. Not easy to predict, but it wasn't easy to predict last year either. But we were still able to land this in a very decent way. Some of this unsold capacity will be pre-funded MultiClients, and some of that is already in the pipeline to be closed, and some of it will be contract. And there is dialogue around contract opportunities that we have bid that may come to a closure in this picture, in the short-term. But before it's there, it's hard to say on the timing because as we've indicated, timing tend to take a little bit longer now than it does in the strong market.

Also, you mentioned that you're in dialogues with oil companies with respect to funding on Triton. Could you be more specific and say is this that, is it a couple of oil companies? Is it three, four, five companies? Just to give a – like a some more color on the magnitude of the risk here involved with – that this funding could be potentially postponed another quarter.

We talk to all the oil companies that may have an interest in this area of business. So this is not sort of a pre-funding that hinges on one particular client, but could come from any sources.

Operator?

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Then we thank you all for participating and wish you all a nice day. Thank you.

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.