Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President- IR & Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rune Olav Pedersen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, Carnegie
Sondre D. Stormyr — Analyst, Danske Bank A/S (Norway)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's third quarter 2017 results. My name is Bård Stenberg, the Vice President of Investor Relations and the Corporate Communications in PGS. With us from management today are Rune Olav Pedersen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO.

At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage, and then open the line for questions.

Before I call – turn the call over to Mr. Pedersen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions for the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements.

Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the Annual Report. I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Rune Olav Pedersen.

Thank you, Bård. Our Q3 numbers were driven primarily by strong execution of good MultiClient projects in Canada and in the North Sea primarily. This led to a MultiClient pre-funding revenues of $101.8 million in Q3 and a pre-funding percentage of 124%. On the late sales, they were a little bit down and a little bit more muted but as – the normal late sales are a bit lumpy. So, in general, we had approximately $150 million in MultiClient revenues.

On the marine contract side, the improved pricing we had achieved for the contracts in Q3 were negatively impacted by a very challenging project in Asia Pacific. The total EBITDA for the quarter were $108.6 million, while cash flow from operations were fairly strong at $118.4 million. In the quarter, and in particularly, after the quarter and after today, we have improved our visibility for the winter season, and I will get back to that shortly.

The most important news in this release today is that we have embarked on a reorganization of the PGS operating structure. We are reducing capacity, reducing cost and improving flexibility of our vessel organization with the aim of becoming cash flow positive in 2018 after debt services. And this is cash flow positive, if you assume a flat market from 2017 to 2018. S,o we have announced today that we are aiming to reduce the gross cash cost by at least $100 million in 2018 versus 2017.

I will then jump from this slide into slide number 5 [ph] and name the (03:30) order book. The order book ended at $167 million at quarter-end which is fairly weak. However, we have secured significant contract and MultiClient work after the quarter of $55 million, leaving the total order book as of today at more acceptable levels.

The vessels bookings based on eight vessels is 70% booked for Q4, 40% booked for Q1, and 10% we booked for Q2 2018. Now, we will introduce a new operating model where we will reduce the cash cost basis both onshore and offshore to a level of six vessels, and we plan to operate six vessels throughout the year and then to increase the vessels we operate and offer to the market for the summer seasons to eight.

As Q4 and Q1 are part of the winter season, and we expect only to operate six vessels, the 70% number you see there is generally a representation that we are fully booked for Q4, and we also expect to be able to book the remaining slots for Q1 based on six vessels. Whether we will introduce a seventh vessel or an eighth vessel during Q4 and Q1 depends on whether we will get good marine contract jobs or attractive MultiClient jobs in that period. If we don't, we will stay with six vessels.

I will then move to our slide number 7 which explains the new company operating structure. We have designed this based on three main principle which is centralization, simplification, and streamlining. And therefore, you see the new operating model. There are two business lines instead of – or business areas instead of four which we are currently operating. Some key aspects of this new organization to note is that we will have a sales and marketing organization which will sell all our services: MultiClient, Marine Contract, and Imaging. And we will bring both the MultiClient part of our offering and the Imaging part of our offering together in this business area to ensure even better cooperation between these two units.

In the operations and technology box or business area, it's worth noting that we will centralize all marine contract bidding under the umbrella of project planning and bidding. And we will increase our focus on project delivery where, at the box called project delivery, we'll be responsible for both the commercial and the operation of any marine contract operation in PGS. We believe this will get – leave us with a more effective organization altogether, and it will allow us to reduce the size of the operation and organization to a level where we are able to realize the $100 million of cost savings.

So, with this [ph] organization (07:07), we aim to maintain our competitive advantage. We will continue to offer marine contract services, MultiClient services, and Imaging services to the market. That will be based on vessels and technology that we own.

I now turn to slide number 8 which sets out to improve – to explain the improved fleet flexibility. What you see here are the eight vessels we will have available for market operation. And as you will have heard us say earlier, demand for vessel capacity is greater in the summer months of the Northern hemisphere and less in the winter months. We therefore aim to operate at eight vessels during the summer months and six vessels during the winter months. However, the two vessels that will not be operating during the winter months will be ready to go. They will have all the equipment on, they will have streamers on, and we will have temporary crew and contract crew which we can call on a short notice and bring that vessel into operation if there is an attractive job for it in – during the winter months.

With that, I will jump to slide number 9 which explains the effects of the reorganization. As you will see, we expect to have a gross cash cost for 2018 below $600 million. As such, the gross cash cost reduction from 2017 is at least $100 million. We will realize that by streamlining, simplifying and centralizing the organization. We will close [indiscernible] (09:08) reduce the size of many of the offices around the world. We will improve fleet flexibility which I've just been through. We will centralize and reduce the imaging capacity to fit today's markets. We have and will renegotiate our contracts with suppliers and there are several other cash-saving initiatives ongoing.

We will further have a very strong focus on keeping CapEx at a minimum level. Realizing this cash cost reduction, we estimate will have a cost of between $40 million and $50 million, and we expect that to be recorded mainly in Q4 of this year.

This should bring us in a position where we are cash flow positive after debt servicing assuming equal revenues in 2018 as in 2017. Hence, a flat market. That is what we're planning for not necessarily what we believe in, but that is what we're planning for.

Finally, I jump to slide number 10, which shows the new PGS executive team, a smaller team as simplifying and streamlining has to start at the top. Sales and Services will be led by Sverre Strandenes. Operations and Technology will be led by Per Arild Reksnes. And I now give the word to our CFO, Mr. Gottfred Langseth.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 12. Q3 revenues were $207.6 million, that's 9% lower than they had in Q3 2016. EBITDA, $108.6 million, a notch lower than Q3 last year. EBIT, if we exclude impairment and other charges, negative $30.4 million. We recorded $82.9 million of impairment and other charges in the quarter. I'll just refer to you our earnings release for the details of this. And after these charges that are reported, EBIT was $113.3 million negative for the third quarter.

I will move then to slide 14 called Q3 2017 Operational Highlights. Total MultiClient revenues for the quarter was $149.6 million and as touched upon already, pre-funding revenues, $101.8 million corresponding to 124% pre-funding rate on $82 million of capitalized cash investment. And as you will see from the chart to the upper right and the purple line, we are continuing to deliver consistent pre-funding coverage or pre-funding rate at or around the higher end of the interval we are targeting.

Late sales, $47.8 million in the quarter. Pre-funding revenues were primarily from Canada and North Europe, whereas, late sales for this quarter were strongest in Europe, followed by sales from our African library.

Marine contract revenues were $43.5 million in the quarter. We have less capacity allocated to contract work in this quarter, the lowest relative allocation in a fairly long time as can be seen to the – in the upper left chart with the yellow line that indicates the percentage of our active capacity working on contract. We did not realize any improvement on our actual numbers with respect to profitability and price on the projects executed since a challenging project in Asia Pacific offset the [ph] in a way (13:42) price increase that we managed to realize on other contracts compared to the previous year.

Moving a bit down to slide number 19 which is named the Group Cost Focus Delivers Result. We had a sequential cost increase in Q3, ending at a gross cash cost for the quarter of $184 million. The increase relates to an increase of capacity operation. In the third quarter, we had three – sorry, nine 3D vessel facility in operation in addition to the 2D vessel. And on a – in addition to that, we had higher – well, we had projects with higher direct project costs for several reasons, but primarily relating to the Canada season where we had four vessels operating throughout the third quarter. The quarterly costs will be significantly lower going forward. And our full-year 2017 gross cash cost, same as before, expected to be below $700 million.

Moving to the next slide, slide 20, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Summary. Strong cash flow from operating activities, $118.4 million. We had a reduction of working capital in the quarter, and this is due to higher – this is since we had higher and more back-end-loaded revenues in the second quarter than we had in the third. Thus, we have a reduction in the receivables, primarily explaining the change in working capital and adding positively to the cash flow.

We had a positive cash flow after investing activities, so before financing activities, of $18.4 million. Financing activities, as you will see from the cash flow statement, is a negative $47 million approximately. Most of that relates to reduction or repayment of drawings on the Revolving Credit Facility, $25 million, and also a $13.2 million scheduled debt amortization or repayment on export credit loans.

Then, to slide number 21, Balance Sheet Key Numbers. Liquidity reserve end of Q3, $224.2 million. Our net-interest bearing debt, which can be seen in the table, $1.113 billion. Our total leverage ratio which is relevant with respect to the covenants in our – maintenance covenants in our Revolving Credit Facility, 4.32:1, which is slightly down from what we had three months earlier.

With that, I will give the word back to Rune.

Thank you, Gottfred. I will move directly to slide number 25, Marine Seismic Market Outlook. We still believe that improved cash flow among our oil companies – more oil companies combined with limitations on streamer availability will benefit the seismic market fundamentals long-term. That has not changed.

We are, however, uncertain on the timing of market recovery. And therefore, as you have heard, we are planning for a flat market. That does not believe – that does not mean that we necessarily believe the market will be flat, and I believe that it's going to be somewhere in the area of flat to an increase next year, and how large that increase is is anyone's guess. So, therefore, we plan to – for a flat market to be on the conservative side.

I move then to slide number 26, in Marine Contract Market Activity, where you can see that we have an encouraging contract leads development. And I will also highlight the last sub bullet where significant increase in production seismic, especially in North Sea, West Africa and Brazil. We still believe that the trend we have shown earlier on 4Ds will materialize in 2018. And this is important to us as we have a large share, a market share of this particular market segment and it is generally better priced.

I will then go to the guidance slide. We still guide, for group cash cost, below $700 million. MultiClient cash investments of $225 million, which is down from approximately $250 million with the pre-funding level being above 100% which was earlier approximately 100%. And correspondingly, the active 3D vessel time planned for MultiClient is now a notch down to approximately 45%. CapEx is unchanged, and I will then move to concluding remarks on the slide 29.

This quarter was dominated by solid MultiClient performance and we have also seen fairly strong order intake in October following quarter end which has improved visibility for the winter season for us. However, it's clear that the contract part of the backlog in Q4 and Q1 are competitively priced.

There is an encouraging bid pipeline for 2018. And concludingly, I repeat that we are reorganizing the way PGS is going to operate to be more efficient and more streamlined. We will then reduce capacity, improve flexibility and capacity, and we will, in the process, take out at least $100 million of cash costs. The target, as I said, is to be cash flow positive after debt servicing in 2018, assuming a flat market or a similar revenue in 2018 as in 2017.

And with that, yeah.

Operator, we are ready for questions. So, if you can help us with the Q&A session.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Christopher Møllerløkken from Carnegie.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This is Christopher from Carnegie. First question, would it be possible to quantify the impact from this incident in Asia Pacific?

So, we haven't quantified it in our disclosures. But I think it is – we can indicate that it is in the area of between $5 million and $10 million.

Okay. And just a question regarding this winter capacity on marine acquisition. Is it fair to assume that the seismic crew on the two vessels will be employed year-round and the cost savings that you are targeting for Q4 and Q1 would be mainly save with fuel costs, saved marine crew which I assume you could more easily hire in for summer season and saved support vessel cost?

That is only [ph] the last part of it (22:14), Christopher. [ph] Then what you say (22:16) is correct. The first part on the seismic, we will take down the seismic crewing to be sufficient to operate six vessels on a full-year basis. So the seismic crew element will have the same dynamics that you referred to for maritime crew and those other costs. And we will do that by, in part, contracted personnel for survey durations and similar and in part by offering a solution where some of our workforce are working [ph] not real (22:59) positions then have more trips summertime than [ph] wintertime (23:02).

Okay. Thank you.

And we will take our next question from Sondre Stormyr from Danske Bank.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thanks for taking the question. I had a little bit of clarification question on the cash cost guidance. Is it right to assume that you are in this below $600 million cash cost, including the reactivation from six to eight vessels in Q2 and Q3 which would be sort of similar employment levels as you had in 2017?

Yeah. It is our estimated cost based on the model we have explained. So, in a way, it takes into account that up to eight vessels will operate for parts of the year. Clearly, there will be – could be fluctuations if we – for some – for good reasons [ph] and the base (23:59) operating eight vessels for a full year, that would in a way have an offsetting effect. But that would only be done if something positive happens to the market because we don't think there's scope to operate eight vessels in the winter season.

Sure. So between five and six vessels in Q4 and Q1 and between seven and eight vessels in Q2 and Q3, like you had in 2017, is the basis for that and it could be higher if you have higher employment there or lower if you have employment – that's how we should think about it?

Yeah. Fairly close. Six or potentially that not so likely more than six in the winter half and eight – and potentially less than eight in the summer season. So, between six and eight, and anyway, the base line is six in the winter, eight in the summer.

Now, that's – the $600 million number is based on six in the winter, eight in the summer.

Thanks. And if we move this forward to kind of the balance sheet and the leverage situation, is it – I mean, you're probably going to generate slightly more than $300 million EBITDA in 2017, give or take, on Q4. With $100 million taken out from the cost base, is it a fair proxy to basically, say, you're planning for an EBITDA in 2018, $100 million higher than in 2017 or like $400 million-plus?

Yeah. We have to do your modeling stock with – in a way, what we've said, in a way, we're planning for a market with flat revenues...

Yes.

...compared to 2017. And then we have said quite a bit on what we expected gross cash cost level is. I think it's a bit likely that as a percentage of our activity, we'll see that maybe more weight towards MultiClient and contract, because in a way that's where the market is holding up best and growing. And then, well, that give some MultiClient cash investments with – in many ways, give you the pieces that you need to model the EBITDA.

Sure. And I guess you've said that you expect leverage to come down in the next couple of quarters, but so does your leverage covenant. Could you say anything about the – kind of the buffer or the headroom how that will trend in the next couple of quarters as you – yeah, as you enter 2018?

So I think that will be stretching it a bit too far. I think we are fairly comfortable with the covenant level and the headroom in the period where we have visibility going forward. So, I think we'll leave it with that. We said that we expect it to reduce which shouldn't be a surprise, the average ratio of the headroom as a result of the fourth quarter last year and the first quarter this year being relatively low numbers. So, I think we need to leave it with that.

Final one for me, when you – when you're streamlining the businesses there and reorganizing, will there be any geographies where you feel like you might be sacrificing or do you think you can still be able to offer what you offer today to basically all the same geographies within your model?

Yeah. No. We think we can be able to operate similarly in all geographies that we are doing today.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we will take our next question from [ph] Jim Musal from the Intermarket (27:52).

Yeah, gentlemen. Can you talk a little bit about activity in Brazil some of you picking up. And I think you have a competitive advantage there. Is that something that could benefit the company with late sales or MultiClient when you look into 2018? [ph]

The simple answer will be (28:15), yes. We are experiencing more interest in Brazil than we have lately. It's a significant increase in [ph] first time (28:28) leads. We have, as you say, a very large footprint in Brazil and we hope and expect that we will monetize on the licensing rounds which have been announced and which are coming up. So, this is a fairly positive development in the market. The Brazilian government have done a lot of things to attract the attention of the international oil companies in regulation, in tax regulation, in local content, et cetera. And from where we are sitting, that seems to be working well.

Great. And then, that brings up another question regarding the restricted cash that is set aside for – and has been set aside for some time for the tax case in Brazil. Is that expected to be resolved at some point in the future or is that going to remain on the balance sheet for quite some time?

Yeah, what we – we don't really know. Well, what we write in the release is that there have been various proposals to improve regulations going forward and to open up for settlement of disputed cases going backwards. So, we see that as positive, and that may give opportunity to solve these cases at amounts left and the total exposure, but we don't have the information enough to have a view on what [indiscernible] (30:12) would mean or when it would happen. But I think it's...

Great.

... there is also a positive development in this respect and then, we'll see how that pans out going forward.

Great. Well, thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And it appears there are no further questions at this time.

Okay. That concludes the conference call. So, thank you all for dialing in and participating, and good bye.

Thank you for calling.