Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Communication, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rune Olav Pedersen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, Carnegie Investment Bank AB (Norway)
Monika Rajoria — Analyst, Societe Generale Global Solution Centre Pvt Ltd.
Sahar Islam — Analyst, UBS Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications in the company. With us from management today are Rune Olav Pedersen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO.

On today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our web page, and then open the line for questions. Before I turn the call over to Mr. Pedersen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call.

Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future, and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cost actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the annual report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Rune Olav Pedersen.

Thank you, Bård. We have had a good start to the year. And we are well on track to achieving positive 2018 cash flow after debt service and tax, which is our key financial target for the year. We have revenues in the first quarter of $197.8 million, which is ahead of plan. EBITDA of $92.3 million. These are generally delivered based on a strong MultiClient performance where our total MultiClient revenues were $142 million. We had very strong late sales of $83.5 million, which gives a sales-to-investment ratio of 2.6 times and a pre-funding level of 109%.

While we've experienced and continue to experience strong demand for our MultiClient services, the marine contract market is still challenging and we have put behind us, a weak winter season.

Another important point is that our total leverage ratio is now below 3:1. This was the first quarter where we operated in our new organizational structure, and it is a pleasure to see that this new organization is able to deliver such strong results.

Our 2018 gross cash cost estimate is adjusted upwards from $575 million to $600 million, mainly reflecting some higher activity in Q1, FX changes and higher fuel prices.

I will now jump one slide and go to the order book on slide 5. The order book is now standing at or at the end of the quarter, it was standing at $211 million, which obviously is sequentially up from Q4 2017, where we had a weak order book, but this is also down from Q1 2017.

And it's clear that we, this year, experienced that companies, both national companies and other companies, are slower in signing up on pre-funding for our Canada season and for our North Sea season than what we experienced last year, and therefore, affecting our order book at the end of the quarter.

Booking, we are now fully booked for the second quarter. For the third quarter, we have booked 19 vessel months. So, approximately 80% of the eight vessels we will operate in the third quarter. And in the fourth quarter, we only have two vessel months booked and we are, of course, working on firming up both contract and MultiClient projects for the fourth quarter. It's still early days.

We plan to operate eight vessels during Q2 and Q3, and we have mobilized the Ramform Sovereign early March, and she is currently operating in South Africa. So, operationally, we are following the plan that we launched on the Capital Markets Day about operating six vessels in the first quarter, eight in the second, eight in the third, and six vessels again in the fourth quarter.

Revenue wise, we are ahead of schedule. And with that, I hand over to you, Gottfred Langseth.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 7, which is called Segment Reporting and IFRS. We have implemented IFRS 15, the new accounting standard for our external financial reporting in Q1. This impacts the timing of revenue recognition for MultiClient pre-funding revenues and the related amortization.

Under IFRS 15, such MultiClient pre-funding revenues are recognized when the final process data is delivered. The historical numbers have not been restated. We continue to use percentage of completion, which is in line with the historical practice for our internal management reporting purposes and performance management.

We also disclose these numbers in our earnings release and presentation, and it is termed segment reporting numbers. When we comment on the numbers in the release and presentation, they apply to both sets of numbers, unless it is specifically otherwise stated.

This quarter, the difference between revenues under IFRS 15 and the segment reported numbers is small. But in individual quarters going forward, the difference can be material.

I move to slide number 8 called Consolidated Key Financial Figures. I will comment on many of the line items here later, but just a few comments on the segment reporting numbers at the bottom of the table, where the segment revenues of $197.8 million in the quarter is an increase of almost 30% from the revenues we had in Q1 2017. The segment EBITDA was $92.3 million, which is more than 3 times what we had in Q1 2017.

Segment EBIT, which excludes impairments and charges, and we had no impairments and a positive effect of charges in the quarter, negative $22.7 million.

I move then to slide number 10, which is called Strong MultiClient Late Sales. On this slide, we show the quarterly MultiClient revenues since first quarter 2014. And it's split into pre-funding in blue and late sales in gray.

It shows a couple of things. Firstly, as a trend note, we have been able to sustain robust sales levels throughout the downturn in the industry. Secondly, the trend that we saw on MultiClient sales in Q4 has continued in Q1 with, in particular, strong late sales. And the late sales of $84 million in the first quarter, is the highest we've had since the fourth quarter of 2014. And normally, there are seasonality, where the fourth quarter typically takes the records and we have to go many aspect to find that first quarter with late sales revenues of these size.

I then move a couple of slides down to slide number 13, which is called Vessel Utilization. We had 67% active vessel time in Q1. That is calculated based on a denominator of eight vessels. We had 29% stacked and standby time in the quarter, and it is – this is caused by the two vessels that we have had for warm stack over the winter, and in addition to that, idle time or standby on PGS Apollo due to permitting issues in Indonesia. We expect now to use approximately 60% of our 3D vessel capacity for MultiClient for the full year 2018. That is increased compared to the indication we had earlier, which was above 50%. And it is a result in a way of projects firming up in the schedule and its positive development.

Moving to the next slide, slide 14, which is called Increased Activity, FX and Higher Oil Prices Drives 2018 Gross Cash Cost, and the heading in a way summarizes the comments there, but we've increased, as already mentioned, our estimated full-year gross cash cost to $600 million, up from $575 million, which was the earlier estimate. The increase is driven by changes in FX rates, primarily a weakened U.S. dollar against Norwegian kroner and British pounds. Both of the Norwegian kroner and British pounds has – count fairly significantly in our cost base, higher fuel prices due to the increased oil price and a higher activity and some reimbursable cost projects.

We put in to the slide a reminder of the sensitivities that we have disclosed before on our cost and EBIT relating to FX and fuel. And largely speaking, a 10% change in U.S. dollar will impact our full year cash cost against Norwegian kroner and British pounds by somewhere between $20 million and $30 million. And a change in the oil price of $1 per barrel typically translates into million dollars for us of fuel cost for a full year.

Then I believe it is slide number 16 next, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Summary. We had cash flow from operating activities of $73.4 million in the quarter, with an improvement from Q1 last year driven by higher earnings. The cash flow from operations is impacted by $14.3 million of payments of severance and other restructuring costs, or severance and other restructuring provisions made in the fourth quarter last year.

Then, slide 18, which is called Good Headroom to Maintenance Covenant. We continue to show a substantial reduction of the total leverage ratio. Headroom is increasing to the competitor required level. And as of end of Q1, the ratio stood at 2.99:1, which is a reduction from 3.67:1 at the start of the quarter. And maybe needless to say, we expect to be in compliance with the total leverage ratio covenant going forward.

I will stop there and give the word back to Rune Olav.

Thank you, Gottfred.

I will start some comments to slide 22 called Marine Seismic Market Outlook. We repeat that we believe that higher oil price, improved cash flow among our clients, and that we need to find more oil and gas in this world, will benefit our markets going forward.

We see that the strong sales trend in MultiClient, which we experienced in Q4, continues into Q1, and we expect continued strong demand for this part of our operations. With respect to that contract market, we have to be more cautious. We believe it's still uncertain, both the strength and timing for the contract market recovery is uncertain.

We do – we have achieved higher pricing in Q1 2018 than we did in Q1 2017, but we are coming off a sequentially weak winter season. And we believe that pricing will be better in the contract market in Q2 and Q3 2018 than we are experiencing Q1 2018. But to see whether we will experience sustainable improvement in rates in the contract market, the rate we will achieve in Q4 this year and Q1 next year will be very important.

I will then jump to slide 23, Seismic Market Activity, and all the covenant that we do see increasing leads curves and bid curves, which is obviously positive, but we also expect that this picture will fluctuate going forward. And my comments to the contract market is still valid.

Next slide is 4D slide, slide 24. I would only like to say that we – this is the positive part of the contract market. We see growth in this part of the market, and this is also a part of the market where the oil companies are willing to pay for a premium offering, and the premium offering we deliver to the market. So, we have a strong market share in the 4D market.

We have completed four 4D jobs so far in 2018.

Next, slide 25, Marine Seismic Supply, which is similar to the one I reviewed on the Capital Markets Day. I'll only comment on the Schlumberger exit from the seismic acquisition market, and it shows from the market activity that they are true to their word. They have not been bidding on contract work after the announcement. And as far as we can see, none of their vessels are currently in operation. However, we expect one or two of their vessels to be in operation during the summer to complete work day we're awarded prior to the announcements.

Now, moving to our new guidance on slide 26. Group cash cost of approximately $600 million, of that, MultiClient cash investments is now up to $275 million from approximately $250 million. Reason for that is that we plan to allocate 60% of our 3D fleet to MultiClient, which is up from above 50%, which we guided on the last time. CapEx is still at approximately $50 million.

So, we are extremely happy just to see that the new organization has delivered strong results.

That comes primarily from solid MultiClient revenues, which derives out of a continued strong MultiClient market. We repeat that we are uncertain regarding both the strength and timing of the contract market's recovery. But all in all, we today have improved visibility. We are on track or I would say rather, ahead of track of our main financial target, which is to deliver positive cash flow after debt service and tax in 2018.

So all in all, off to a good start. Bård?

Thank you, Rune. Operator, can you support us on the Q&A session?

Thank you. A question-and-answer session will be conducted electronically. [Operator Instruction] We'll take our first question from Christopher Møllerløkken with Carnegie.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. Could you comment a bit on the late sales experienced in first quarter? Was there any big one-offs, any of these big single sales or any single clients standing out for you?

No. We had no extraordinary big sales, and we had, as said, demand and sales to a very large number of clients. So, it's – that $83.5 million consists of many, many sales to many, many clients. Obviously, some are bigger than others, but there are no extraordinary sizes in there. And it's sales from almost our entire geographical library as well.

You mentioned earlier on the call, not Rune Olav, that – the other gentleman from management, that this has been a very long time since you had seen such a strong first quarter. At least on the numbers I have back to 2000, we have never seen such a strong first quarter on late sales. Were there...

Yeah, I think you're right...

Were there a catch-up effect? It's been so weak for so long or how would you describe the market on late sales?

Yeah. No, I – first of all, obviously, we have a much bigger MultiClient business now than we used to have when you go back to more than 10 years. We had a smaller business, altogether a smaller library, a smaller business. I think you're right that we have never had this kind of late sales in the first quarter.

The way I would characterize this is that there is a clear trend of stronger demand. I also believe that as the oil price continues to strengthen, the major oil companies have started the year being very cautious. And as I see that cash flow is improving, there is a likelihood that they will release more money to be spent on exploration and some of that for seismic.

That money would typically find its way into the MultiClient segment and not into the contract segment as that leaves time to plan and execute our contract surveys much longer while you could just basically call us up when you have the data available tomorrow if you want to buy it from our library. So, I think it is a reflection of an improving market and an improving cash flow situation for all our clients.

I will keep the next question very short, but just going to this IFRS 15 issue. In the notes, you can see that you are also adjusting up the book value of the MultiClient library. And I would assume that, that relates to previously booked pre-funding revenues, which under the new rules couldn't be booked; and thereby, you couldn't amortize it; and thereby, book value would be higher. But I assume that the historic sales you have reported in, you don't adjust that. So, if you should do some apples to apples comparison here, would it be fair to take the last reported book value and adjust it with this $156 million, which you described in the notes?

Yes. I think I'm 90% sure I understand what you mean. It is – I mean, we apologize, and I may do so well on behalf of the whole industry of the increased complexity in the way running the numbers. But if you want it to have a comparables or what's the book value, I think it's fair to make that adjustment.

And just a final question, I...

So – and the increase in – [indiscernible] (00:23:18) increase in book value of the library is, first, the revenues recorded on work in progress surveys last year and are in a way booked as deferred revenue in the starting balance sheet, more or less. And we reduced the accrued revenues on the asset side as well. And then the amortization that we had taken on projects in progress is also then just added back. So there is no – they're complete unamortized at the January 1 balance sheet data.

Pre-funding in first quarter was high at close to 110%. And you mainly did investments in Brazil and West Africa, if I remember correctly. Now, in second quarter, you are talking about projects in the North Sea and Canada. Would it then be natural to assume that the pre-funding percentage would come somewhat down due to the geographies?

I think we – and you know where we target our pre-funding and it is – the scope for it to be varied from quarter-to-quarter. And we don't want to guide on specific quarters, so we would be cautious on our pre-funding revenues.

As you know, it's also in addition to the pre-funding on the specific surveys being in the acquisition phase. It is impacted by late pre-funding or late participants, which could happen, in a way, on value to the same extent as our late sales do. And there are – there is an impact of late participants in late pre-funding in the Q1 numbers, as well as we comment on that we had pre-funding we haven't used also in Europe where we do not have acquisition in the quarter. And that's relating to incremental sales done in collection in the first quarter in Europe, provide in Norway, for example, in connection with up around [indiscernible] (00:25:36).

And just final question. Will you continue with the segment reporting?

That is the plan.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Next, we'll go to Monika Rajoria with SG.

Hi. Thank you for taking my question. My first question is a simple one on MultiClient amortization, both as opposed in digital MultiClient revenues? I remember in the CMD, you had guided us to a level about NOK 375 million to NOK 425 million. I was wondering whether it's still that or has there been a change to the guidance?

Yeah, we – give me 10 seconds. We haven't updated the guidance for MultiClient amortization and the guiding in a way related to our segment reporting, which is now changed under the – in the official numbers of all of the – in the IFRS 15. And so, it all starts to get a bit complicated, but it is as generally, our indication stands as it was.

All right. And my final question would be on the RCF that' still in 2020. So, I was wondering if you're already starting negotiating with the banks on it or is that something that you're planning to do later this year or next? Thank you.

Certainly, we have not started negotiations with the banks. But we have – we will – as we have just stated earlier, be prepared between now and mid. So that between now and mid next year, we could execute refinancing of the some more of the debt maturing in 2020.

All right. Thank you.

[Operator Instruction] Next, we'll go to Sahar Islam with UBS.

Afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions again. I had a couple of more, if that's okay. So firstly, a follow-up to the earlier question on late sales. I'll ask it a slightly different way. Can you give us a sense of how much of Q1 late sales were related to licensing rounds or specific auctions?

I don't have that number, but there will always be a certain amount of late sales related to licensing rounds. I don't think there were any – particularly with this first quarter compared to other first quarter, the Norwegian up around is normally in the first quarter, so there will be some revenues related to that, which we always [indiscernible] (00:28:55) first quarter. And we have delivered on late sales, so that is also related to, in a way, to the licensing rounds. Other than that, I don't believe there are any particular licensing rounds to note which are coming to the late sales in the first quarter.

If I could add that obviously, a lot of the interest received from [indiscernible] (00:29:24) have been in Brazil, is related to the fact that there is a three-year program with licensing. So whether it's triggered by specific awards or just related to need for data in connection with those rounds, that's mixed. But yeah, certainly, we'd do that.

Okay, because I appreciate we probably shouldn't extrapolate out such a strong Q1 late sales. But there's nothing to be aware of in terms of particular timing if we go to Q2 to Q4. That could impact late sales from what we can see now. I appreciate it's always a bit volatile.

Yeah, I know. I think your comment is right. It's – the interest to extrapolate the sales, okay, well, then everything else is going to be much higher going forward because we do find it lumpy, but there is nothing in the actual $83 million number that sales has been, oh, we'd have to be much lower next quarter, a little bit in that way. But it will be lumpy, that's clear. Yeah.

Okay, thank you. And then you talked a bit about the Schlumberger absence of vessels. Can we just – can I ask about the other competitors that goes, when we think about what's changed over the course of last year, a number of your other competitors have strengthened their balance sheets. Has there been any change in behavior as your – as some of the competitor have a stronger financial position?

I don't think there's anything material to report there in terms of competition in the contract market is still strong and the MultiClient players, except from [indiscernible] (00:31:12), looking for a good project. And so, I wouldn't say there is anything material in the behavioral competitor worth noting in the first quarter.

Okay and a final question related to that. Would you consider participating consolidation either with the Schlumberger vessels or smaller players, particularly given the improvement in your share price mean you could potentially do something on the equity side in much more favorable terms than last year, or are you set on the refinance next year or some point between now and mid next year plan?

No. The plan is the latter one, clearly. Will we participate in consolidation? What I can say is that we don't believe that adding more vessels to PGS will increase the value of PGS. So, in that sense, consolidation for us is not interesting. Will we take other opportunities to consolidate the market? Of course, we could. But then we will take that as they come.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Next, we'll go to [ph] Jim Musel (00:32:33) with Intermarket.

Yeah. I was wondering on the SG&A line, it was about $17 million this quarter. Is that the number that we should expect on a go-forward basis? And then you mentioned in your notes that's coming from office facility and sales costs that are not classified. Where did that come from? Was that capitalized before or was that from cost of goods sold?

From cost of goods sold. Anyway, we have fundamentally changed our organization's structure. One of the things we've done is to gather all sales-related activities in one department, one group versus earlier being spread out in the business lines and in the regions. And then we sat down and looked at what is the crop in a – what's up with classification of a – or given the simpler organization structure we have, and that has meant that we classified more of sales cost, the sales versus people. I already did a bit of different things which were not included as sales. And the same then with some of the office facility cost. So, it is a reclassification between those two captions in the P&L.

Great. And then is that – is $17 million a quarterly number we should expect or is that up, I guess, [indiscernible] (00:34:10)?

That's the best indication as of today, it could clearly come a bit down.

Okay. And just to clarify, the – so what you're saying is that you've reclassified, and sounds like that the – you're reclassifying those cost from cost of sales into SG&A, is that correct?

Correct.

Are cost of sales good? Okay, got it. All right.

Yeah.

Thanks.

And it appears that we have no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to the speakers for any additional comments or closing remarks.

Yeah, thank you all for participating and have a nice day.

And that does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.