corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Petroleum Geo-Services Q3 2008 Conference Call.


Today’s conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Tore Langballe. Please go ahead, sir.


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President, Group Communications


Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants.


Welcome to the PGS conference call following the release of the company’s earnings report for the


third quarter 2008. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in the group.


We trust that you’ve all received a copy of the press release. I would like to thank you for the


interest in PGS.


With us from management today are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, Chief Executive Officer; Gottfred


Langseth, Chief Financial Officer, and Bård Stenberg, Investor Relations Manager. Today,


management will make a brief summary of the report and then open the lines for your questions.


Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, we would like to comment on the forward-looking


statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made


during this conference call are based on management’s expectations and predictions of the future


and therefore are to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company’s actual results


could differ materially from these projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risk


that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in


today’s release and in PGS’s annual report.


I hereby turn over the call to you, Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and CEO of PGS. Please.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tore. I will just spend a few minutes on the first couple of slides and then hand over to


Gottfred Langseth. We present the best quarter ever and strong robust operations in the quarter


despite the lower utilization compared to the previous record. North Sea market particularly strong,


but also contribution from increased capacity.


Book -- record order book 1.2 billion and with a very strong long-term financing in place, meaning


we are strategically well positioned. One further comment on the order book. We have now


committed six vessels to the North Sea for 2009 at very good rates similar to this year. We have


said earlier we anticipate the North Sea market to come down in 2009 from the peak this year, but it


looks like it will stay about at the same level.


Then I hand over to Gottfred Langseth and I’ll come back later.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. I will start with slide number 7, Marine – Q3 Highlights. We had very strong marine


contract revenues in the third quarter, reflecting record activity in the North Sea at record rates.


Contract revenues was $307 million, which is a 31% increase from Q3 2007. MultiClient late sales


$48 million, slightly higher than Q3 2007, primarily driven by increased late sales in Brazil and West
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 24, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Africa. Licensing from our Brazilian library amounted to close to 50% of the total MultiClient late


sales revenues in the quarter. Pre-funding revenues were $71.9 million, which is lower than the


87.2 million we had in Q3 2007. The primary reasons for that are firstly that we in Q3 last year had


very strong pre-funding on the Crystal I survey in the Gulf of Mexico. We had lower activity in Q3


this year. We had lower 3D acquisitions on MultiClient in this third quarter, and that’s a relatively


higher portion of our MultiClient investments related to 2D using primarily chartered in capacity and


reprocessing.


Data processing had external revenues of 19.8 million in Q3 this third quarter. EBIT in the marine


segment for the first time exceeding $200 million in a quarter on a recurring basis, which has ended


at 202.4 million, which is 11% up from Q3 ‘07. The marine contract streamer EBIT margin for third


quarter was 53%.


I will then move on to slide number 14, which is Onshore Highlights. Onshore revenues for third


quarter was 72.2 million, which is a close to $20 million increase from Q3 2007.


EBIT ended at 4.2 million, which is 8.4 million up from Q3 last year. The primary causes for the


improvement is increased activity in Latin America, transition zone project in Alaska, stronger pre-


funding and lower amortization rate.


Cash investments in the MultiClient library onshore was 12 million in the quarter, slightly down from


previous quarters, with strong pre-funding.


Order book at end Q3 increased sharply to $260 million following the award of a four-year project in


Mexico for PEMEX and this backlog is a good situation to be in, in the current market.


I then turn to slide number 17, Consolidated Statements of Operations Summary. Revenues for the


quarter of 534 million, which is a 22% increase from Q3 ‘07; adjusted EBITDA of 276.1 million, a


10% increase; and operating profit of 187.8, which is 12% higher than Q3 ‘07.


Net financial items was a negative 30 million. One of the primary items impacting that is a foreign


currency loss on our forward contracts that we use to mitigate the exposure to the currency


changes on our more operating items. The loss was as a result of a sharply increasing --


appreciating U.S. dollar during the quarter against some of the currencies in which we have our


operating expenses. Generally, this is favorable to us since going forward our operating expenses


in Norwegian kroner, British pound will be reduced if -- as measured and reported in U.S. dollars.


But on these currency positions that we have to mitigate in a way the risk, the opposite effect is


instant as it is -- they are valued -- they are mark to market at quarter end.


Income tax returns $32.9 million corresponds to a reported tax rate of 19%, which is relatively low,


primarily as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well since it creates changes


in our underlying tax position. So that’s beneficial to us.


Going forward, we have got the expected proposed changes in the national budget in Norway with


respect to -- which enables us to enter the new Norwegian tonnage tax regime. And as a result of


that, we expect in the next quarter to recognize a benefit exceeding $50 million as a result of that.


Earnings per share, $0.71.


I then move on to slide number 21, Balance Sheet. Just first mention from the previous slide that


our cash flow from operation was good in the quarter, 257.6 million, which is up 20% compared to


Q3 2007. We had at quarter end cash and cash equivalents including the restricted cash of over


$110 million, gross interest bearing debt of 1.289 billion, which is a reduction of 56 million related to


repayment of debt during the quarter and net interest bearing debt of $1.177 billion, a reduction of


45 million during the quarter.