Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jørgen Andreas Lande — Analyst, Nordea Bank Norge ASA (Broker)
David Phillips — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc (Broker)
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to U.S. participants. Welcome to the conference call presenting our Quarterly Results for the Second Quarter this year. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, who's our CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. At today's call, management will make some short spoken remarks referring to the slides available on our website and then, we'll open the lines for questions.

Before I turn over the call to Jon Erik, I'd like to make some comments on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and, therefore, should be considered as forward-looking statements.

The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual result to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in our annual report.

By that, I hand over the call to Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO of PGS.

Thank you. We are proud to present another strong quarter, despite the relatively high levels of steaming and yard stays. Having said that, the major long-term news in the quarter is really the delivery of the Ramform Titan, one of four Ramform Titan class vessels. We see a trend – there continues to see a trend of larger and larger surveys and that will require larger and more robust vessels, more productive vessels, not the least as we see operations coming into more and more remote areas. These new vessels will set the new standard for seismic acquisition going forward and will represent very attractive offerings to our clients.

The Q2 profitability is mainly driven by good marine contract performance, by technology differentiation and by an attractive MultiClient library that has delivered a very strong late sales this quarter. The financial performance is basically described with an EBIT of $110.6 million, a margin of 29%, which is high in this up cycle. Net cash from operations very strong at $271.3 million, up 54% from Q2 2012. And as I briefly mentioned, a record Q2 MultiClient late sales of $90.2 million.

We still see average 2013 marine contract prices to be 10%, 15% above the average 2012 pricing. We make an adjustment today in our expected pre-funding level for the full year still to be robust 110% of capitalized cash investment, but slightly down from earlier, being indicated as above 110%. This is basically a delay of cash and profits and not really lost cash and profit, since it relates to pre-funding of investments that are very robust in the core areas of the North Sea, where all our investments are making very solid returns.

The delay as we see it is partly caused by more companies requesting pre-funding for various surveys to the oil companies, combined with a constraint among the oil companies or not unlimited funds available needed to fund a larger number of prefunding. Oil companies are still committing to late sales to contracts. So if there is a slight softness, it is related to prefunding and probably related to data available now versus data becoming available later on that they could rather buy later than pre-funding now. But again, delayed, not lost cash flow. Increased late sales is expected from the same surveys and same return. Discounted is what we expect. They're all very good business and investment cases.

Having done that adjustment of prefunding and necessary adjustment, the consequence will be a somewhat downward adjustment of the EBITDA guidance, down to $900 million to $950 million. So as a consequence of slightly lower prefunding, we get slightly lower EBITDA guiding range, down midpoint to midpoint about 3.5%.

The next slide, which is slide number 4 in the deck that is available on the web, this just shows the number and they are, as you can see, very strong and very high in comparison to earlier quarters and clearly a sign of a continued uptick in the cycle.

Slide number 5 is related to backlog. We have opted to focus on price optimization and not backlog maximization in this environment, since we have a relatively solid view on an improving market over a longer trend. Part of the decline in backlog that now sits at $446 million is due to a higher share of MultiClient in the mix for the next half versus the half we have behind us, which typically a MultiClient project, even with high pre-funding, would have lower backlog for the same vessel month.

And of course, with pre-funding, it's not all signed up when you decide to do the survey, so there's also a backlog increase coming as we get closer and closer to the start of the survey. However, unit pricing for contract work in the backlog is maintained. There has been good order intake after the second quarter close and we expect the backlog to be up end of July.

We are working on several larger opportunities in parallel, so the opportunity space is quite wide. Currently, mid-July that is, we are almost fully booked for Q3 2013. We are 60% booked for Q4 2013 and 30% booked for Q1 2014. This slide on backlog will have to be seen in combination with the following slide, slide number 6, that shows these two curves, all sales leads and active tenders. Then, what we see is that all sales leads is still very high and very robust.

Positively, however, all tenders or active tenders have trended up quite strongly over the last couple of months, which speaks well to an improved bid pipeline going into the winter season and for 2014, North Atlantic winter season, that is. We also see that survey sizes continues and, as a summary, sales leads are finally starting to transform into active tender after a couple of quarters with a sort of increasing gap between leads and tenders.

The next slide I will just cover very briefly, but we do see a very positive development in many markets now, good sales leads in most regions. This is a breakdown of the all sales leads in the previous slide. We are on slide 7. Three main comments to this. So far, the major North Sea sales leads for next year has not been reflected in the curve. That would typically come now over the next two to three months, as oil companies settle their budgets for next year. Significant increase in Brazil, post the 2011 license round awards. And as you can see, West Africa will be very active during the coming winter season.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth for a quick review on the numbers.

Thank you. I will comment on for slide – starting with slide number 9, consolidated statement of operations summary. The margin improvement is the key word, a 6% reduction in revenues Q2 this year compared to Q2 last, with a 28% growth of EBIT. Compared to Q2 last year, EBIT margin for the group improved from 21% to 29%. And for the first half year numbers, EBIT margin increased from 15.9% to 26.7%.

We had a significant reduction in net financial items and net financial costs, partly due, I think, to more capitalized interest to construction of vessels, and also in part due to lower foreign currency losses in the second quarter.

Income tax expense in the quarter, $25.8 million. That's a 26.5% tax rate, a little bit higher than what we expect long term., primarily as a result of foreign currency exchanges and particularly, the stronger U.S. dollar. Net income to equity holders $71.5 million, which is more than 50% up from Q2 last year.

Moving to slide number 10 with the heading Q2 2013 highlights. Strong Marine Contract revenues in the quarter, $192.8 million, 50% up from Q2 2012. EBIT margin on net contract activities, 29% in the quarter. MultiClient revenues totaled $155.4 million. As mentioned, record second quarter late sales, $90.2 million. The late sales dominated by sales from our Europe library, but we also saw a strong sequential increase in library in North and South America.

The pre-funding in the second quarter was 96% of MultiClient cash investments. Pre-funding revenues were highest in South America and Africa. The lower pre-funding rate compared to last year is primarily due to starting a project in Asia Pacific-Australia, with generally lower pre-funding levels and less MultiClient activity in the North Sea.

I will then move a bit down in the presentation to slide number 15, consolidated statements of cash flows summary. Cash flow from operation ended very strong, $271 million. It's driven by earnings and a strong improvement in working capital in the quarter, in part, obviously, that's a reversal of the opposite happening in the first quarter.

Otherwise, in the quarter, we did draw half of the $250 million export credit financing relating to our new builds and we paid out this $60.9 million dividend, 2012 dividend and spent $16.5 million for buyback of shares.

Moving then to slide 17, which after having strong balance sheet position the key figures. Just briefly, some key numbers. Liquidity reserve at the end of the quarter, $680 million; net interest-bearing debt, $617 million; shareholders' equity getting close to $2 billion, 57% equity ratio. And lastly, the book value of the library remain at a modest level, $438 million.

With that, I hand the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you. We move to slide number 20 with the headline of well performing MultiClient business. We still see further growth in MultiClient as a very attractive business opportunity. Pre-funding adjustment for the year is still at a very solid 110% prefunding and the project economics are still unchanged. It's just a matter of delayed cash flow with improved late sales.

This is all related to projects in the North Sea, which is our home turf, the market we know the best, the market which gives us some of the highest returns on our investments and therefore, in combination with dialogue with customers along the lines of, I want your data, but I don't have a budget this year. We are confident that these investments will be as robust as earlier investments in the region.

Now, the two graphs here shows good performance parameters when you want to evaluate a MultiClient library. The top one, you see how our performance has improved significantly after we reorganized, but also as a consequence of starting our larger GeoStreamer MultiClient investments.

So it's partly a result of a more focused organization very driven to deliver good returns on the investment and partly an outcome of better data to be sold to clients. As you may know, we introduced GeoStreamer in 3D in 2009. We reorganized second quarter 2010.

These numbers are really difficult to compare the company, because it's really different policies when it comes to how to capitalize the investment, but trend lines between companies are always useful to look at if there's an improving or a worsening trend.

Also, another important ratio is the MultiClient revenues to net book value, to tell you that you have a business that really depends the book value that the library holds. And again, a very strong number, a proof of strong sales performance and robust accounting policies.

Next slide is just some highlights around Ramform Titan. Very strong performance, as expected, so far in operations. Strong booking for the vessel going forward. And as you all know, in December, we get the second Ramform Titan class vessel, the Ramform Atlas, delivered from Japan. This is the world's most powerful, most efficient and most advanced seismic vessel and we expect her to break new records in terms of productivity and performance.

Supply and demand is really unchanged from earlier quarters, with some small adjustments on the percentage increase in streamer capacity year-on-year, but in sum, are the same.

So I will move now to slide number 25, outlook. We still see a sustainable high oil price. We still see E&P spending continue to grow, possibly somewhat muted by reduced E&P free cash flow, but the net effects of that for us, as you have seen for the full year, is relatively limited and mainly related to some MultiClient pre-funding reduction.

Ultra deepwater seems to dominate the lower cost production when it comes to prospects that oil companies sit on and, therefore, the place to invest for the E&Ps and therefore, the place for us to be as a marine seismic player.

I have already commented on the 2013 average pricing. We have seen some positive uptick of prices for 2014 over 2013, but too early to conclude pricing development for the full year 2014. And then finally, as part of the outlook, a very good increase in value of active tenders as you have seen, improving the bid pipeline going into winter season and the full 2014.

And in summary then, our guidance is an EBITDA for the full year in the range of $900 million to $950 million, MultiClient cash investment in a range of $300 million to $350 million, pre-funding level to be approximately 110%, capital expenditure in the range of $540 million to $570 million, of which approximately $325 million to $350 million to the new build program.

And with that, I hand back to Tore Langballe.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Then, we kindly ask the operator to assist us for the Q&A session, please.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Jørgen Lande from Nordea Market. Please go ahead.

Yes, thank you. One question on EBITDA guiding. For the first half of 2013, you have a run rate EBITDA of $206 million while compared to the midpoint of guidance, you must deliver a 25% increase in the second half. The pre-funding rate should be trapped at around 110% and I think you mentioned from this morning's call that for the first – or from the first half of 2013, day rates have sort of stabilized, which leaves late sales the remaining a surprise factor. Could you comment on this and if it's fair to assume that you expect far stronger late sales for the second half of this year?

I mean, in bold numbers, the average turn of – or distribution of late sales for the full year would have somewhat more late sales in Q4. That's been the average for us as well historically with two years deviating from that. One was 2008, when the oil price came down quite a bit and the second was 2012, where it was more flattish, but where some sales actually flipped over to 2013, so it was more of a cutoff issue that 2012 could have been higher with a different cutoff.

So the expectation in our forecast is that we will have a somewhat stronger Q4 late sales than a typical average quarter for the three first quarters.

And Erik, do they – I mean, is it fair to assume that they have stabilized from this point and into the second half?

We have only commented sort of on an average pricing for 2013 relative to an average pricing for 2012.

But we have also indicated that we saw a pretty good run on pricing when the active tender curve sort of spiked up here some quarters back and since then, it's more been a matter of stabilizing that pricing, which we think we have been successful with. I mean, there will always be fluctuations quarter-on-quarter. That is also driven by other factors than pricing, in terms of how you perform operationally.

So, to give a very sort of refined answer to that is not easy, because you would then have to factor in all these other factors of steaming and yard stays and operational numbers. But indication-wise, we believe that 2013 will be a reasonably stable year when it comes to pricing.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. We can now take our next question from David Phillips from HSBC. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Afternoon, everyone. Just a couple of quick questions. I know you mentioned it a little bit already, but the U.S. Gulf, what opportunities do you see there in the next six months to 12 months or as far as you can see in your window for new work? Do you talk about what sort of work you might be able to chase there?

And secondly, just following on from the first question actually, looking at the main moving parts for the second half to put into your guidance. What are the main things that we should think about here? I mean, apart from the obvious, are the main issues things – issues like Q4 steaming or level of the pre-funding? What are the sort of the larger moving parts where you see a larger risk that things may move one way or the other through the second half of the year?

Yes. David, on the Gulf of Mexico, the main opportunity as I see it is that we have still not done any significant work or investment in MultiClient in the Gulf of Mexico using our GeoStreamer technology.

We expect that to have very interesting potentials when it comes to pre-salt or sub-salt type imaging, in addition to the other techniques that are used there. We are ready to do work there, but we have one important condition for doing it. We will not move in there without pre-funding. We think it's a wrong message to the clients in terms of what they can expect. And for our own sake, we would like to see a certain level of commitment from two or three clients before we do it.

Specifically, what area, I think it's a bit – not something we will go into here, obviously. But there are different areas where we see GeoStreamer could represent an interesting uplift to what is available of existing data today. When it comes to the moving parts, late sales is obviously always a shorter term business, so it's always difficult to predict at this point in time what the full year will look like. So we have based our assumption more on how we see the market and the trends and the experience from earlier years.

And in particular in the late sales, for us, you have an open question about Lebanon and when the license round will happen and, therefore, when the data sales will come related to the library we have in Lebanon. There are open questions around Brazil and sort of the pre-salt type data library that we have a lot of, as you know. But it depends on what the government is committed to do in terms of future license round over and beyond the very limited one that came out this year.

Pre-funding, we have basically already now adjusted in terms of the guidance we see for the full year. So then, it's operational things, steaming, yard stays and operational efficiencies and that is the other factors that are at play, as usual, I would say.

Sure. Okay. And just one quick follow-up on the MultiClient side. Just your comment about, obviously you don't want to – make sure you have enough pre-funding to launch something as important as a GeoStreamer into the U.S. Gulf. Have you seen any signs of other players taking lower pre-funding to basically advertise some [indiscernible] (26:24)

Well, the recent history contains examples of surveys that's have been started with extremely low, if not zero, pre-funding. And that's sort of something we would not like to follow up and kind of confirm that that's the way the industry wants to do business in the Gulf of Mexico. So, yes, there are examples of start-ups of surveys in the Gulf of Mexico with very, very low pre-funding.

Fair enough. Thanks, Jon.

All right. Thank you. Very good.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our next question from Christopher Møllerløkken from SB1. Please go ahead.

Yes, good afternoon. In terms of the corporate costs, they were fairly low in second quarter and what should we expect going forward?

Now, between $3 million and $4 million a quarter and the reason was this was low in the second quarter was – one reason I would say which is anyway that the profit in our internal insurance capped it in the quarter. And the other one is a change in the allocations, the internal allocation of shared costs, which benefited the corporate department in the second quarter. But it's not a reality for the group as a whole. So it's essentially at $4 million.

In terms of the EM activity, can you give any more flavor there? Does it still stand that you target to have three months of EM activity this year?

That is still a vision. We are – Nordic is, Nordic Explorer is equipped with a combined GeoStreamer GS and EM capability as we speak. We are doing some testing now with full-length streamers or full commercial testing. I think today, they are deploying the EM source and if that is successful over the next few days, we will start actually a MultiClient survey with pre-funding as a combined EM and GeoStreamer GS survey. And if we still have areas we need to improve, we'll probably go along with that survey as a GeoSteamer 2D survey and the EM surveys on the back of that. But the ambition is still three months this season.

And please also remind us on the [indiscernible] (29:11) contract, are the revenues now fully booked or will there come revenues on a regular basis based on the shooting activity from PGS parts?

Yes, there will be an annual revenue stream related to operating a source vessel and processing the data and there's also an element of passive monitoring in the contract, where you actually sit and register data without having a source to generate a pulse. How much that is on a yearly basis? My guess is 15, 20-ish or something like that.

Slightly less.

Slightly less, yes. So it's not a significant part, but it sits there and it is initially a three-year contract from delivery of the system. Obviously, the intention for the old company is to extend that further, providing the system works as it should and that the outcome is as they expect.

And final question. On the slide 7 ratio, the geographical distribution of sales leads, I was surprised to see that Canada had such relatively large part of the pie, as I would assume that the Canadian sees needs approaching well, not the end now but soon, as it's – I guess it's mostly a summer activity. Could you describe the current activity you see there and are these leads for 2014?

Basically, yes. We are seeing both this year and next year quite an uptick in seismic activity in Canadian waters up around Newfoundland. Part of it is both this year and next year wide estimate type surveys as well.

Thank you.

Yes, good.

Thank you. There are currently no questions in the queue. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. There appears to be no further questions at this time.

Okay. Then, we thank you all for participating and have a continuous good summer. Thank you.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.