corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Petroleum Geo-Services Q4 2009 Conference Call.


Today’s conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President of Group Communications. Please go ahead.


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President, Group Communication


Good afternoon to international callers. Good morning to U.S. participants. Welcome to this fourth


quarter and preliminary annual results conference call. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of


Corporate Communications in the Group. We trust that you all have received the presentation and


the press release, if not, you can download it at pgs.com.


With us from management today is Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård


Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. Management will give a brief summary of the report. The


selection of the slides will be used and then we will open up for questions.


Before I turn the call over to you, Mr. Reinhardsen, I’d like to make a few comments on forward-


looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain


statements made during this conference call are based on management’s expectations and


predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements.


The company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking


statements. Factors and risks that can cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking


statements are detailed in today’s press release and in the annual report.


So by that, I turn the call over to you, Jon Erik.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tore, and good morning and good afternoon depending on where you are. We will start


with slide three. We have turned what we all thought would be a very challenging year into a year


where we have gained significant strength, both in terms of financial position and market position.


We have transformed an attractive order book at the time into solid earnings and cash flow. We


have improved our cost structure. We have improved our balance sheet significantly. We have


added high-end capacity through the Ramform Sterling, adjusted in the low-end taken out capacity.


GeoStreamer has been a success, or has become a success now also in 3D. We have launched a


differentiating new technology in data processing area called hyperBeam that brings prospects to


maturity much quicker through quicker turnaround time for the data, and we have become not the


least a focused marine geophysical company through the sale of our Onshore business to


Geokinetics. Or in brief, we are very well positioned for a recovery in the seismic markets, and


everything we do now is really focused around looking for opportunities as we move forward.


The quarter, in particular, was particularly strong when it comes to MultiClient late sales, in fact, up


at par with the best fourth quarter we’ve ever had. Cash flow from operations were still strong at


U.S.$159 million. Part of that was used to reduce our net interest bearing debt that now sits at 774


million; Group EBIT margin of 15%, excluding Onshore, contract margin lower than we have seen


for quite a long time, lower than what we would see going forward on average driven by significant


steaming activity and also loss of productive time due to the synchronization of seven vessels


arriving simultaneously for two Wide Azimuth surveys; adjusted EBITDA of 141.5 million.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Looking at 2010, we have sold out first half of 2010, and vessel booking is stable and continues to


be stable. North Sea season is firming up. In fact, we have seen for the second quarter some


tightness in vessel availability for the first time in this down cycle. Margins are stable. I will revert to


that and we do maintain our guidance for 2010, number of good leads in the market.


So we move to slide five just briefly to have a look at the cash flow over the last quarters in the


bottom right corner of the slide, and where you see the illustration of how robust this still is. It’s


really difficult to get an eye on the global financial crisis when you see that slide as it has developed


through 2009. Obviously, these numbers will come down when the current rate level is reflected in


the operations. But now, we have a balance sheet that can sustain quite a lot of scenarios going


forward.


Next slide six, cash generation remains key focus. The first portion is just a recap of the guidance


for 2009, including Onshore. We guided in October, 700 million EBITDA will leave us at slightly


below, and we ended at 691 as we told you. CapEx has come further down below even the latest


guidance interval to 242, lower than anticipated. Even here, there was some carryover to 2010.


MultiClient cash investment sits at 187, approximately where we have been for a while. And in net


of those three parameters, we ended up at 262 million, which obviously is in a high range of our net


interval. And bear in mind, December 2008 where I met some of you, this range was 200 and 275.


So even relative to capital markets dated December 2008, we have stayed at the high-end of the


internal when it comes to the net of these parameters.


The next box excluding Onshore is guidance for 2010 where we see the net of these three being


minimum 100 million. And in addition, in terms of cash, we have already received 230 million in


proceeds from the Onshore sale and by cashing in the bank guarantee associated with the Arrow


refunds for 532.


And then finally, order book, the number is down somewhat from the previous quarter, reflecting


somewhat lower backlog in the data processing area that later in this quarter has started to pick up


again, but also reflecting that there are fewer vessels to be booked with orders, as we move


forward since we are and have taken out six streamer vessels, and as we are currently burning the


backlog related to the Wide Azimuth surveys with all the source vessels being actually booked as


vessels that are under contract.


We are very comfortable with this backlog. Margin is stable. And there are a number of good leads,


number of good prospects in the process of being turned into orders. So in that respect, we see the


booking activity, the backlog development as stable and good.


I’ll then turn over to Gottfred Langseth to go through the more details.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning or good afternoon to all of you. I will start with the slide number nine, Marine Q4


highlights. We had strong MultiClient sales of 87.2 million, an increase of 77% over Q4 ‘08. Late


sales were particularly strong in Gulf of Mexico, Europe, and in the Mediterranean.


Prefunding revenues was 31.5 million in the quarter corresponding to the prefunding ratio of 67%


compared to cash investments in the MultiClient library in the quarter. MultiClient acquisition


predominantly was made in Gulf of Mexico in the quarter, where we started the East Breaks or


Crystal III Wide Azimuth survey late October 2009.


Contract revenues in Q4 were 158 million, a reduction compared to last year and sequentially as a


result of this quarter reflecting pretty much the current market rates, whereas previous quarters


containing quite a bit of production based on orders taken before the markets turned down. In