raw transcript


Petroleum Geo Service ASA
 
PGEOY
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our US participants.


Welcome to PGS’s conference call following the release of the company’s earnings report for fourth


quarter 2004. We trust that you all have received a copy of the press release and we’d like to thank


you for your interest in PGS.


With us from management are Svein Rennemo, Chief Executive Officer; Gottfred Langseth, Chief


Financial Officer; Diz Mackewn, Group Senior Vice President, Geophysical; Sam Morrow, Senior


Vice President, Finance, and Treasurer; Ola Boesterud, Vice President, Group Communications.


Management will make some opening remarks and then open the lines for questions. Please be


sure to limit the questions to one per caller, as we would like to give everyone the opportunity to


address the management.


Before we turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, we would like to comment on forward-looking


statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made


during this conference call are based on management’s expectations and predictions of the future,


and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company’s actual results


could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks


that could cause the actual result to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in


today’s release and the filings with the SEC. I hereby turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, CEO of


PGS. Sir, you may begin.


Svein Rennemo, President and Chief Executive Officer


This is Svein Rennemo, let me welcome all of you to this fourth quarter presentation. After the


divestment of Pertra, our E&P activities, PGS is very much again focused on oil services, focused


on Geophysical with multiple strength in Marine and focused on floating production with an


inevitable strength in harsh weather FPSO operations.


The group highlights for Q4, first we did deliver our cash flow positive measurement well above


previous guidance. And we did that despite rather weak fourth quarter for Pertra. And this was to a


very large extent driven by strong multi-client late sales and increased contract sales within our


Marine business. Following the fourth quarter, the financial flexibility will be further strengthened by


the Pertra divestment, and we expect to use a portion of the cash position and proceed from Pertra


to reduce debt, we will revert to that.


Looking back to December, on the 17, we reached a very, very important milestone for PGS, in


many ways marking the end to our restructuring period by being again re-listed on the New York


Stock Exchange. On the operational side, I am very pleased to again see that we are delivering


strong HSE performance, and we did so also throughout the fourth quarter. In total, the 2004


financial achievements will allow for bonus payments to old employees, and I think that is well


deserved after 2 to 3 hard years of work and sacrifices, and we have accrued accordingly already


in the results published.


Most specifically on the financial highlights: we saw revenues in the fourth quarter of $300.8 million,


up 12% to a large extent driven by strong multi-client late sales and improved contract revenues.


We saw adjusted EBITDA excluding Pertra of $100.4 million, up 22%. We did see an operating


loss of $38.2 million and a net loss of $49.3 million uniquely explained by the significant Pertra loss,


which will be reverted. And also additional amortizations of the Marine and Onshore multi-client


library of $22.3 million and we will revert also to that issue.
raw transcript


Petroleum Geo Service ASA
 
PGEOY
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Cash flow from operations, $42.6 million after interest payments of $52 million and we are below $1


million now in interest-bearing debt.


We are turning to the financial summary including Pertra. I would only like to highlight the annual


number for cash flow post investment, $246.5 million down 25% from strong 2003. And we want to,


the Q4 financial summary excluding Pertra, strong cash flow post investment of $250.1 excluding


Pertra. And you will see that with respect to cash investment in multi-clients, we saw a substantial


decline from 2003 lower activity due to high activity on the contract side. And you also see that we


saw higher CapEx to a large extent related to the renewal of our streamer capacity.


The next graph illustrates the main changes fourth quarter to fourth quarter. You will see that the


fourth quarter cash flow post investment at 2004 was 48.4, down from 67.5 in the fourth quarter of


2003. And you will also see that Marine contributed positively with $37.1 million and there were


small declines on Onshore and Production and a very substantial decline from Pertra, due to lower


production.


The next graph an overview gives you in many ways the setup, which will characterize PGS moving


forward. And importantly, the cash flow post investment increased from $59.2 million in the fourth


quarter of 2003 to $76.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2004, again largely driven by the increase in


the Marine contribution.


A few words to set 2004 in perspective; importantly, we did reduce our net debt considerably from


above 1 million to below 1 million. For the Marine Geophysical business, a very weal first-half was


followed by a considerably stronger second half. And in particular, we are pleased to see that there


is increasing interest for high-density seismic, high-density 3D in the market. On the Onshore side,


the strengthening of the US domestic markets for PGS in part was partially compensated from


lower activity in Mexico as 1 of our 2 contracts came to an end. And at the same time, we saw new


Onshore markets opening up, and we will revert to that issue.


On the Production side, importantly, we were able to renew and improve the FPSO contracts


through renegotiations for Petrojarl Varg and also for Ramform Banff. And at the same time, we


saw a negative impact in the second-half, partly from the Labor Conflict in the North Sea and partly


from the rise of problems at the Varg fields. Pertra will then return a pending divestment and that


will be effective from January 1, 2005 and we will use the proceeds to reduce debt.


In summary, PGS faces 2005, 2006 as a revitalized and focused oil services group and we are


positioned for capturing the market upturn and for growing our businesses. I now give the word to


Gottfred Langseth who will take you through the numbers and results and financials in more detail.


Gottfred.


Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thank you. I will start with Marine Geophysical. Contract revenues improved to 76.2 million


compared to 70 million in Q4 ’03. It should be noted that Q4 ‘03 included our 2C crew that was


closed down last fall with revenues of 8.3 million. In addition, our 4C crew steam to Brazil during


this full Q4 and had somewhat lower revenues, so the increasing contract revenues mainly


corresponds to increased capacity in our streamer acquisition fleet. We had very strong multi-client


sales in fourth quarter, 91.5 million, which is double the Q4 ‘03 level. We saw strong demand in all


geographical regions and this late sales amount include also some uplifts, specifically in Brazil on


levels that we have announced earlier.


We did record in Marine Geophysical 19.4 million in what we call additional amortizations. That


includes amortizations following our minimum amortization or backed up amortization policy which


was changed last year and also amortizations related to write-down of some individual surveys