Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President- IR & Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Stenberg. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon to our international callers, and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's First Quarter 2016 Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President of IR and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage, and then open the line for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård, and good morning, and good afternoon, everyone. First quarter is I will characterize it in four main buckets. Number one, vessel operations this quarter has been exceptionally strong, one of the best quarters we have ever had and that includes also a continuous drive on getting cost out of the system. And we are on track to deliver what we have indicated we will deliver earlier.

Secondly, and on the weak side, pricing is still very low, very challenging market, so therefore, it's hard to get enough value out of the excellent performance, but that's how the market is.

Number three, we have invested MultiClient data into Azimuth in principle, and I'll come back to that a little bit more in detail since that has raised questions during the day how this works. And then fourth, we have taken delivery of another newbuild that is enhancing our productivity leadership further. And in this market, our focus is mainly now on what we can influence which is sales, operations, cost and cash flow discipline.

We then move to slide number 5 in the slide pack that is put onto our Web in connection with today's release. Backlog, end of the quarter, $204 million, which is down from end of the previous quarter. We saw a somewhat lower award rate in Q1 due to the weak oil price, so we interpreted it adds. We've seen improvement or a pickup in awards in April that is offsetting mainly the declining trend here. And as of end April, the booking is decent in the sense that this quarter is almost fully booked. Next quarter is 80% booked and fourth quarter is 10% booked.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth, who will take us through some of the slides relating to the numbers.

Thank you. I will start with slide number 7, condensed consolidated statements of profit and loss. Revenues in the quarter, $203 million; 19% down from Q1 2015. EBITDA of $78.6 million, a reduction of 38%

Operating loss excluding overcharges, negative $30.2 million and the reported operating loss, $31.6 million. We had net financial items in the quarter with the cost of $30.5 million, which is impacted by the accounting for the solicited company, Azimuth Limited, where we had quite significant exploration expenses in the quarter as [indiscernible] (04:39).

I will move to slide number 8. Q1 2016 operational highlights. Total MultiClient revenues for the quarter were $125.2 million. Pre-funding revenues, $59.9 million, which corresponds to a pre-funding level of 140%. Late sales revenues in the quarter $65.3 million. Marine contract revenues $59.2 million, negatively impacted by difficult market low prices for contract services.

We used 75% of our active vessel time for contract work in the first quarter approximately. The weaker EBITDA margin for Q1 compared to early quarters is partly due to the high contract share of activity since there are – there is no meaningful EBITDA contribution from contract with the current price levels.

I'll then move a couple of slides down in the decks to slide number 13. Group cost focus delivers results. Our gross cash cost is continuing to come down. The Q1 costs include $11.5 million relating to vessels that were not operated in the quarter, primarily of seasonal nature. Vessels which will commence operations but that didn't happen yet in the first quarter and partly due to stacking activities. These costs include the main items, the charter and other costs for Sanco Sword and Sanco Swift. The costs to stack and dispose of Nordic Explorer and some [indiscernible] (06:38) costs relating to the stacking of four vessels that we did in the fourth quarter of 2015. The cost level in second quarter is expected to be in line with what we had in the first quarter despite Ramform Tethys and Sanco Swift commencing operations in the second quarter. The last comment on this slide, since 2014 full year, our gross cash cost has come down more than 35%.

And move to slide number 15, the consolidated statements of cash flow summary. Cash provided by operating activities was $133.3 million in the quarter, benefited from positive working capital change in the quarter primarily of seasonal nature. We had relatively high capital expenditures in the quarter, primarily relating to the new builds where we – and related to the delivery of Ramform Tethys in the quarter. You will see from our earnings release that the final cash CapEx for the vessel fully equipped ended up $265 million, which is lower than quoted earlier, primarily as a result of reuse of equipment from the vessels we stacked last fall. And you would also see that we expect a corresponding reduction of cost for Hyperion.

Other investing activities in the quarter include an investment in Azimuth Limited of $74.1 million. [ph] We like to refer to this (8:40) an offsetting element in cash flow providing from operating activities as a result of – or related to revenues from Azimuth.

Moving to slide 16, balance sheet key numbers. We have a liquidity reserve of $496.6 million at quarter-end. The increase of net interest-bearing debt in the quarter primarily related to the delivery of Ramform Tethys and the corresponding drawing on export credit financing.

We have remaining export – undrawn export credit financing of approximately $130 million, which corresponds to all remaining payments, yard payments for Ramform Hyperion, which is to be delivered in first quarter 2017.

Then moving to slide 17, with the most important commentary being that we have initiated a process to increase the headroom under that maintenance covenant for the revolving credit facility, and we expect to complete that process during the second quarter.

With that, I give the word back to Jon Erik.

Thank you, Gottfred. We go to slide 20, looking a bit at proxies for supply and demand in the marine seismic space. We do expect around 300,000 square kilometers to be acquired by the industry this year. On the good side, this is at par with 2008 and 2009 that were quite nice years in the industry. On the negative side, of course, in the interim, we have as an industry build more capacity that keeps us out of balance, and therefore, prices have come down very low. The activity level here is obviously a reflection of the oil companies' cash flow, the low oil price-driven cash flow, and we expect this market not to improve this year.

The streamer capacity is down as much as 50% from peak which is a significant number. And still, we see some further need to take out capacity to balance the market even though, I have to say, when it looks – when we look at Q2/Q3 coming, we are not very far from a balanced market. And the reason I deduct that is partly of what we experienced and partly what we see and expect to be idle time across the players this year compared to last year.

Same in a way goes for Q1 significant improvement or reduction in less – in idle time.

Next slide, slide 21, curve is above marine contract excluding MultiClient. Bear in mind that contract is becoming a smaller and smaller segment of the total activity, but what drives the activity both on the MultiClient and contract side is clearly related to license round, first and foremost, either positioning before the rounds and need for data or commitments post-award of licenses. But it's also an element of production seismic and some opportunistic spending which typically would be expansions of survey because it's cheap. And instead of waiting to collect the rest at a later point in time. We expect Q2/Q3 to have a decent capacity utilization based on how we see the bookings are going.

But clearly, the oil price weakness we saw in the first half of Q1 did cause, as we observed, as some oil companies to postpone some projects until there is a better reason to defend taking off these projects, which did have a negative impact on tenders and leads in the period.

We then move to slide number 24. It doesn't have a page number, but just to have a few words about our long-term fleet strategy we have over the last years built a fleet that is second to none when it comes to productivity. In a way, we saw a few years where a lot of players with building capacities was aimed at competing with our V-class vessels in terms of productivity and now we have built a new generation vessels that competes at a different level when it comes to productivity. We have defined [indiscernible] (13:50) boats which are all new, and then the plan is to build additional capacity overtime through charters and with a staggered program for end of charters and of options so we can easily run off capacity if we need to.

Then in the near term seven, eight, nine years, we have still have five Ramforms currently four of them stacked. Later in the year, the fifth being stacked, that we can bring back into the market. They are well maintained subject to us investing in streamers and obviously at the higher rate than what we see today.

Main message here though is that when we look forward here, post first quarter next year, we expect a significant reduction in CapEx requirements for PGS compared to looking at the mirror the last eight, nine years since this renewal now have taken place or it's about to have taken place.

I'll then move to the slide – page 26 on Azimuth, which is our associated company established some five years ago with the view that it must be possible to create some more value out of our library without PGS becoming the company that is supposed to operate these things. So we were looking for partners that were interesting and developed these kind of assets and that would have an interest in leveraging a library to get there. Seacrest has to take in that role. So they are the lead shareholder in Azimuth and the subsidiaries we are 45% backseat owner, if you like, but still of course with broad representation. And together, we see a lot of opportunities in this market where they can leverage library and also, of course, being funded from largely U.S.-based investors.

For us, this is about driving further value from our library than we are, on the next page, over and above what our hence MultiClient sales represents. This is, to a large extent, value that will not come in our hands in a traditional way but additional value. Hence, most of the investments in Azimuth is library. Even though the transaction is in the form of a sale and an investment, the net contribution over time is or has been largely cash neutral. This is an option to harvest more value on the library as these assets come for sale, with very limited downside, obviously.

Library for equity has been part of the strategy since 2011, and we see Azimuth as a very attractive partner to work with in this respect, given its countercyclical investment strategy. Important to stress that compared to earlier engagements by PGS in this sector, this time, there is a right to invest or co-invest with Seacrest. There is no obligation. So this will never be something that will tie us to a problem, but rather a great opportunity with some great people working on this opportunity.

Q1, we invested $74.1 million. This is intended to maintain our minority ownership for the next couple of years of 45%, so you should not expect further investments for the next couple of years.

We have, on the other side, booked total sales with Azimuth this quarter of $56 million, of which, $37 million is MultiClient late sales. All these sales are done at arm's length and negotiated with Seacrest and nothing we can dictate from PGS. And those of you who have followed the quarters earlier, we'll see that sales to Azimuth are always disclosed when they are of significant value to the overall numbers. And actually, you can also in the Annual Report look at the status of Azimuth to some extent in our disclosures there. That's what I plan to say I'm very happy to answer questions here further.

And finally from my side, slide 28, we have reduced our guidance for cash cost and CapEx also this quarter. We foresee now a group cash cost of approximately $715 million, down from $725 million; MultiClient cash investments of $250 million, down from $230 million; and a capital expenditure of approximately $225 million, down from $250 million, some of that reduction rest with the newbuilds as you also may see from the disclosure.

And with that, I hand over to Bård Stenberg to manage the questions from here.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Emma, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Yes. Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from the SpareBank 1 Markets. On the Azimuth transaction, when you contribute $74 million this quarter, should we then assume that Azimuth basically has a MultiClient seismic purchase of close to $130 million if you assume some costs for running the business and with the Q1 sales, it remains roughly $8 million for PGS to realize in sales of Azimuth in the next two years?

That was not a correct assumption. I'm not sure how you got there.

So what you have said, you probably thought that that's primarily library correspond overtime to our investment that has been – is the case as of today, I'm not sure how you got to your $130 million.

Yeah, using math, actually. If you contributed with $74 million, then I would assume Seacrest would contribute with the remaining to get to their 55% share, meaning, basically $90 million.

No. Not all of that is spent on seismic. I mean, you're talking about how do you fund six E&P companies where some part of their expenses is seismic, right?

Yes. But there has not been any major drilling commitment so far, right?

There has been – Azimuth has participated in some wells in the North Sea over the last couple of years. And of course, there are 60 people employed here that are working on this. But as of now, we're into the Azimuth numbers but the actual money spent on seismic from Azimuth is of course what they have in their budget but I would – the majority of it is actually data process from PGS.

You said that there was no obligation for PGS to invest further into Azimuth but has Azimuth an obligation to buy MultiClient from PGS or can we choose to buy from other data providers as well?

They could choose to buy from others.

On the vessel booking, you disclosed it as of end April, but could you disclose the value of the order book by end of April or at least alternatively – if you don't do it, could you alternatively disclose what the vessel booking looked like at end of March?

Now, we haven't done that. What we disclosed is what you find on slide 5, the only – we have included wordings saying there is a decline here Q4 2015 to Q4 2016 and then we say improvement in April offsetting to declining trend, that's the guidance we have given you then.

Yeah. This morning, you mentioned $40 million to $60 million of maintenance CapEx going forward, and that is significantly down versus prior guidance. It might be some years to go now on maintenance CapEx. Is this sustainable? I wonder where – is it a minimum level that you could have a couple of years while you use the spare parts available? What's typically would be a sustainable maintenance CapEx level going forward?

The last is correct. This is the – not minimum but relatively close to minimum CapEx level that we had last year, did over $40 million. And then [ph] was implicit (24:26) in our guidance for this year. And that's facilitated by the fact that we have extremely well-maintained vessels as a starting point and secondly, that our reinvestment in seismic equipment is close to a minimum as a result of the stacking of vessels that we did in the fourth quarter, and then with Vanguard to be stacked this fall.

So, that can be maintained for some years, a couple of years from now. Should we seek to continue at such low levels, that would require further stacking of vessels in reality? Now, a lot of the seismic equipment has around seven-ish years use for life. In our type fleet operations, that gets close to creating our maintenance, CapEx need of from [indiscernible] (25:25) seismic equipment every year. And that is what we say by having used equipment available.

We've indicated – if you go – we had – in 2013 and 2014, we had the maintenance CapEx levels of $170 million to $180 million. The run rate for coming years in a way, assuming you go back to a steady state type of operation, is largely to get towards that. But it ultimately boils down to then how many vessels we would be operating.

And final question, if you were to keep a seismic vessel currently stacked, what are the typical CapEx requirements, and how long would it take to produce the necessary equipment?

In round numbers, we say close to $50 million for the equipment, and we're getting ready to go, and it will take a year from, I believe there, from deciding to be in operation.

Okay. Many thanks.

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead.

Well, thank you for the presentation. I have a question on the cash flow. Could you comment on the kind of working capital evolution that you see for the rest of the year, please?

Yeah. We are cautious in giving guidance on working capital development forward. We don't expect to compare it to the start of the year. We don't expect any sort of substantial change in our DSO and working capital needs. So, depending on ultimately the business volume, particularly the business volume in the fourth quarter, will drive any changes in the working capital. Otherwise, assuming everything sort of relatively flat, there should be relatively stable working capital development as well.

But there may well be changes from quarter-to-quarter. This quarter, we had a positive effect from working capital change, and that may vary from quarter-to-quarter based on various circumstances. But for the full year, generally, sort of, absent capital changes, a relatively flat working capital.

Okay. Thank you. And what about the liquidity position? Is there a possibility to further improve it? And do you feel any pressure for another capital increase if the macro remains challenging towards the end of the year?

Well, we monitor our liquidity position forward very closely. We are comfortable with the situation we are in, obviously, given the state of the market and then certainly going forward, this is something that we spend quite a lot of time on compared to the usual circumstances.

Okay. And my final question is on this $13.3 million that was classified as amortization expense. Would that be the impairment of the MultiClient library? Am I understanding that correctly?

I was hoping not to get this question. This is extremely technical, [indiscernible] (29:22) we can have a separate session on it. So to take the short – just to take the short version, we changed with [indiscernible] (29:32) January this year amortization for method for the MultiClient library and this is a change that has generally happened across the industry in a similar way. From being based on the sales in a way [indiscernible] (29:50) based on the actual sales to a linear amortization, so it's same amount amortized for each service, same amount every month over a maximum period of four years. So this is the accounting change.

What we then do if we had service that we are selling more of in a relative early stage in the – in this linear amortization period, we make an assessment and see if it is correct to amortize more on that survey and that is what we've done with the $13 million. Otherwise, the risk would be that we reported too low amortization expense in the quarter compared to the sales and could be subject to an impairment later on. This is purely technical and then I'm happy to have a separate session on this if you want to go through the amortization method and the various elements of it in more detail.

Yes, [indiscernible] (31:02).

It's relating to sales that has materialized earlier than what would play well with a straight line amortization profile over four years.

Okay.

So send an email. We can setup a quick call on these technicalities.

Yes, please. Yeah, that would be great. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Did you disclose the EBIT margin for Marine contract in the first quarter?

No. We did not disclose the EBIT margin for the first quarter. What we have said is that pricing is such that it is close to cash cost level, so close to EBITDA breakeven.

Got it. Okay. And then, I just wanted to make sure I understood the final payment for Hyperion is fully funded with $130 million of undrawn ECF. So that implies that there's $130 million in total due before that debt, vessel was delivered in the first quarter of 2017. It appears to be a lot lower than I had expected.

Yeah. No, no. That's – in such case, there are two remaining installments on the Hyperion. First, there's a smaller one relating to the floating of the vessel which is likely to happen in the second quarter. And then, the larger installment is at delivery which is 50% of the yard contract, so that is the majority and sum of those two is the $129-point-some million conforming to the ECF amount.

You should add though that when we say that in our release, you'll see that we expect the total cash CapEx with investors to be between $265 million and $270 million. That's including all the seismic equipment and all the expenses relating to the project and all of these things. If you take that amount and deduct what's incurred as of today, the total CapEx remaining for Hyperion is somewhere between $114 million and $115 million. So there is some equipment related on logistics and all the costs on top of that, approximately $130 million, but not that much.

Got it. Okay. Those are my two questions. Thank you.

Yeah.

As there are no further questions in the queue, that will conclude today's Q&A session. I would now like to turn the conference back over. Please go ahead for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you all for participating. If you have follow up questions, I will be available on the telephone this afternoon. So thank you all for listening and have a nice day and nice afternoon in Europe.

That concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation, ladies and gentlemen. You may now disconnect.