Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President-Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt Start]

...to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS conference call presenting the company's Second Quarter and First Half 2007 (sic) [2017] (00:08) Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, Chief Executive Officer; and Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the annual report.

I hereby turn the call over to CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård, and welcome, everyone. I start with slide 3 in the pack. We have delivered a quarter where MultiClient has taken the main spot with sales of $127.6 million and a pre-funding level of 115%. We also have seen this quarter improvements in the marine contract pricing year-on-year, as predicted a quarter ago.

EBITDA ended up at $112.5 million. We have initiated large MultiClient campaigns offshore East Canada for the third quarter with a secured pre-funding. And further, we have announced another round of cost cuts of about $50 million to $60 million in cash cost with effect from Q4.

Moving then to slide number 5 on the backlog, we have a reduction in the backlog from the high reserve in the first quarter with relatively high bookings at the time as a consequence. Most of the reduction relates to marine contract partly because of a high burn in the quarter, quite few contracts to bid for in the period and a quite limited capacity available on our side to the bids being out. Still we have built around $96 million of new backlog in the quarter, but have also reduced the backlog with $25 million relative to a cancelled contract that was supposed to be done in the second and third quarter of next year.

Vessel booking now stands at 90% for Q3 2017, 40% for Q4 2017, 15% Q1 2018, and 5% for Q2 2018. Main focus now is the unsold capacity for Q4. We plan to allocate two-thirds of that capacity or roughly 3.5 vessels for MultiClient work in the quarter and have plans in place for specific projects, though still not reached the level where we classify them as booked.

Then the remaining one-third of the unsold capacity, we plan to allocate to contract work. We have bids out for that work and we believe there will be more bids that will come in for that window. But, of course, we do not yet know the outcome of that and we do know that there is tough competition for work in the contract space for the fourth quarter. So uncertainty remains until we're able to report solid bookings for the fourth quarter.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth who will take us through some of the numbers.

Thank you. And I'll start on slide number 7, consolidated statement of profit and loss summary. Strong revenue growth in second quarter, total revenues of $240.5 million. The increase from Q2 last year is primarily due to higher MultiClient late sales and increased contract revenues.

The EBITDA of $112.5 million corresponds to an EBITDA margin of 46.8%. EBIT, excluding impairment and other charges, ended at negative $8.7 million. We had the impairment and other charges net in the quarter of $6.5 million with the small impairment relating to the library. And after taking these items into account, the reported EBIT was minus $17.4 million.

Moving then to the next slide, slide 8, Q2 2017 operational highlights. Total MultiClient revenues $127.6 million, pre-funding $50.2 million. We continued to deliver consistent high pre-funding, as shown on the graphics to the top right with a purple [indiscernible] (05:58) line, which over several quarters have been at or around the high-end of our indicated targeted level for pre-funding. So 115% in the quarter on $43.8 million of capitalized cash investment.

Late sales $77.4 million, strong improvement from Q2 last year and this is the best late sales quarter since fourth quarter 2014. Marine contract revenues benefited from improved pricing in the quarter as well as strong operations, and we also allocated relatively high share of capacity to contract work, which is shown as yellow line in the upper-left graph. $95.9 million of total contract revenues; is significantly higher than we've had in any quarter over the last couple of the years.

Then I move a little bit down the presentation to slide number 14, cost discipline remains a key priority. Here we show the full year estimate on gross cash cost. We now expect 2017 full year cash cost to – and below $700 million. That's a reduction from our earlier guiding. The estimate, as I stated [indiscernible] (07:47) is based on the currency rates prevailing at 30th of June as well as the fuel cost, oil price prevailing at the same date.

We have initiated further cost reductions, which we expect will bring $50 million to $60 million of annual run rate cash cost savings from Q4. This includes several actions. The most citable one relates to a plan or is a plan cold-stacking of Ramform Vanguard after the North Sea season this year. The initiatives will have some impact in Q4 and are a part of explaining the reduced guiding for the full year and they will take full effect from early 2018.

Moving one slide down to slide 15, consolidated statements of cash flows summary. Cash flow from operating activities, $49.4 million in the quarter, an increase from Q2 last year, mostly due to the higher earnings, but obviously there is a gap between the EBITDA number and the operating cash flow number, which is explained by an increase in accounts receivables or working capital net to the tune of $60 million approximately, which is directly linked to the backend loaded revenue profile in the quarter.

This is not a reason for any particular concern. There will be a time delay from realizing a significant improvement in revenues to actually collecting the money with the typical DSO in our business. So the receivables from this will be collected in Q3. And with the high visibility we have for acquisition-related revenues in the third quarter, both the pre-funding on our significant MultiClient acquisition in the quarter and the contract revenues for third quarter. In total, will mean that cash from operations in third quarter will be very strong.

Moving to the next, which is slide 16, balance sheet key numbers. Liquidity reserve quarter end $228.3 million. We increase the drawing on the revolving facility by $60 million in the quarter for working capital fluctuations. We expect to reduce drawings in third quarter. It should be mentioned though that we also increased the cash balance in the quarter by $15 million and made scheduled debt repayments of $13 million.

The headroom under the total leverage ratio covenant is improved in the second quarter with a total leverage ratio at quarter end of 4.3:1 compared to 4.88:1 three months back.

I think I will leave it there and give the word back to you, Jon Erik.

Thank you, Gottfred. We go to slide 21, market activity. As I said earlier, we expect very competitive bid levels for contract work in Q4, but we do see an uptick in leads and also [indiscernible] (11:30) bids that relates to work later Q1 and leads for Q2 that at this stage looks encouraging. So we are more confident in terms of [ph] filling as a book (11:45) as we move into 2018.

The seismic demand is primarily driven by, again, strategically positioning for license rounds, commitments [indiscernible] (11:58) undertaken in license rounds, and increasingly also production seismic, especially in North Sea and West Africa and Brazil. We still expect MultiClient to continue to take a bigger and bigger share of the total seismic market as we move forward.

Moving next to slide 23, we have a strong position in the 4D market. It's a market that differentiates more on data quality and with our GeoStreamer offering, we are able to benefit on that differentiation, but also, I mean particularly on the baselines, we benefit on the productivity of the vessels, given tighter spreads and an opportunity to then deploy more streamers to cover the areas.

We currently see around 35% of our contract revenues coming from 4D for 2017. And as you may see from the curve, we expect another significant leap of activity in 4D next year over this year.

Going to the next slide, this time we have since MultiClient has kind of become the center piece of this quarter, included a chart showing the distribution of customer by size, where the largest customers, the gray ones, are dominated by pre-funders, while the blue ones are dominated by [ph] retails (13:44). And we see that there are on the blue side 20 customers, representing sales of $1 million to $7 million each. That takes away more than half of the total revenues.

All told, we have about 70 clients this quarter buying data for around 90 projects or from around 90 projects. We believe the strength that is displayed in the MultiClient sales this quarter is another confirmation of the benefits of the GeoStreamer data, giving longer shelf life to the data and the high productivity vessels bringing down the unit cost on the acquisition of the surveys, thereby yielding a higher return than the peers in this MultiClient segment.

And then finally going to slide 26, guidance. Group has, of course, now guided to be below $700 million, MultiClient catch investments around $250 million with pre-funding level expected to be 100% and active 3D time now again expected to be split 50/50 between MultiClient and contract. CapEx is also as before at $150 million for the year, with the most of that already being invested in the first half of the year.

In conclusion, strong MultiClient sales. We're benefiting from improvement in the marine contract pricing year-over-year, in particular with contributions from our strong position in the 4D market. We do see competitive contract bidding for Q4, and are working to fill the last outstanding capacity we have for that quarter. On the other hand, we see an improved bid pipeline for Q1 and Q2 2018. And finally, we have initiated further cost cuts of $50 million-$60 million planning to cold-stack Ramform Vanguard after the North Sea season as part of that.

And with that, I hand over to Bård Stenberg for managing the questions.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Operator, can you help us with the Q&A session?

Absolutely. [Operator Instructions] And we do have a question. Caller, please go ahead.

Yes. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from SpareBank 1 Markets. Just a very quick question. I know this is the Board of Directors' demand, but could you update us on the process regarding recruiting a new CEO?

There is not much to add from what is stated in the release that this is progressing well and there will be an appointment early in the autumn.

Okay. Thank you. And since this is your last call, Jon Erik, I would just like to wish you all the best with your future endeavors in [ph] Stafford (17:38).

Thank you, Christopher, and thanks to you and all those on the call for great dialogue, many good discussions and challenging good questions. And I wish the same to all of you, a great success going forward.

Many thanks.

And it appears, there are no further questions. However, I would like to give one final opportunity. [Operator Instructions] We will pause for just a moment. And it appears, there are no further questions. I'll turn the conference back over to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.

Yeah, thank you. That concludes the conference call. Thank you all for participating and goodbye.

This concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your participation.