corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO


Q3 2009 Earnings Call -


Europe Investors
 
Oct. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please stand by, we are about to begin. Good day and welcome to the Petroleum Geo-


Services Q3 2009 conference call. For your information, today’s conference is being recorded. At


this time, I would like to hand the conference over to Tore Langballe. Please go ahead, sir.


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications


Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to this presentation of PGS’s third quarter results. My


name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications. Today’s presentation is a webcast-


only as we’re presenting from the SEG conference in Houston this morning.


Before we start, I’d like to draw your attention to the cautionary statements that we’ll be showing on


your screen and it’s on Page Two in the presentation provided on pgs.com. Kindly study that


carefully.


Today’s presenters are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO and Gottfred Langseth, CFO. They will be


referring to the slides they are going through. We’ll have a question-and-answer session after the


presentation. You can submit your questions through the web or, of course, ask them on the line.


There will be a second conference call later today when the U.S. market opens at 2:00 CET or 9:00


Eastern. So feel free to dial-in on that one as well if you’d like.


So, by then I’ll give the word to you, Jon Erik.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tore, and good morning, everyone. We have behind us another quarter of strong


performance, strong cash flow and also we will report improved visibility from the markets point of


view. We have, during this quarter, reduced our net debt by another $149 million. So if we look at


it over a 12-month period now, we have reduced our net debt with more than $350 million.


Group EBIT margin is 26% excluding the impairments from the Arrow vessel. We have and will


report improved visibility for 2010, and I’ll revert to that. Yes, sorry, and I skipped the adjusted


EBITDA of 181 million. That is short of what we had earlier indicated when we said we believe this


quarter will the best in the year. It’s short of around 20 million, of which half or more than half of


this relates to a couple of monthly client signatures that didn’t make the cut for the quarter and will


be reported as part of the fourth quarter results. The remainder is mainly driven by partly a change


in currency over the quarter that comes back positively under financial items and there is also some


restructuring charges of a few million as a one-off in the quarter.


By end of 2010, we will have 50% of our streamer capacity now on GeoStreamer and driven by the


accelerated implementation that we announced yesterday. And when it comes to the guidance, we


have adjusted the EBITDA to the lower end of our earlier range, as a matter of fact, pretty much in


line with the consensus estimate. And as in net, we also have an improved cash guidance post=


investment.


So we’ll now move to Slide Number Four, the guidance slide. So for the year we now see an


EBITDA of approximately 700 million. The ratio between MultiClient and contract still sits on a


25%, 75%. MultiClient cash investment is slightly down to 180 million, and the reason these two


numbers add up is that we have taken out some capacity. So the percentage is above are from a


slightly less capacity than it was initially. And then capital expenditure is coming down significantly,
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO


Q3 2009 Earnings Call -


Europe Investors
 
Oct. 27, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


now guiding in the range of 250 to 300 million, and Gottfred will come back to the reasons for that


later on.


Moving to Slide Number Five, just wanted to reflect a bit on the year. We gave guidance in


December last year at the point where very few were willing and able to give any guidance. The


three parameters we’re guiding on was adjusted EBITDA and still are guiding on the CapEx and the


MultiClient investments. And the net of those was, at that point, in the range of two to 275 million.


If you look at the same parameters today, we’re still guiding a number in the 220 to 270 million,


which is really what something we are very proud of, having been able to keep the cash flow post-


investments at a steady level in a very turbulent market.


Moving to Slide Number Six, still good numbers to be reported; backs up well even comparing to


the peak years.


And then to Slide Number Seven, on the market and the visibility, the backlog in dollars is stable


from the previous quarter, slightly up on the onshore site slightly down on the marine side, again


primarily contract work that we have booked in this quarter and obviously Ramforms and


GeoStreamer continue to be the most attractive assets we have. Literally, all of our 2009 capacity


is now sold. Approximately, 80% of our streamer capacity for Q1 2010 is committed. And


approximately 50% of the second quarter 2010 is committed and that is before the bulk of the


volume for the North Sea season has come out for tender.


We continue to book work at the same and stable rate as we have indicated in the previous quarter.


So it’s still acceptable margin from a cycle point of view. And if you look at bookings of streamer


and vessel capacity in terms of number of months on average, we have actually now increased


every month since April, month-over-month. So we have had a six month period now where we


have been able to gradually increase our booking per streamer.


We peaked in the, sort of, Q3 timeframe of a little bit more from average eight months of capacity


booked. We hit the trough in April of around five months, and now we have moved up north of six


months average per vessel. I have said that the most attractive assets, obviously, are our


Ramforms and our GeoStreamer equipped vessels. And that is by the end of the year accounting


for approximately 95% of our streamer capacity.


So as we see it, at least on the higher value assets or the most productive assets, there is a


positive sign in terms of a growing backlog in months. And now also considering the fact that we


are exchanging highly paid backlog with lower paid backlog, we’re very pleased with the stable


situation when it comes to backlog from Q2 to Q3 in dollar terms.


I then hand over to Gottfred to go further into details.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Good morning to you all. I will start on Slide Number Nine, Marine Q3 highlights. We


had strong increase in the Marine contract revenues from second quarter ‘09. Total contract


revenues amounted to $263 million. Primary driver for the increase was an added in the high


portion of our 3D capacity used in the contract segments; we used 73% of our 3D capacity for


contract acquisition in Q3.


MultiClient revenues totaling $74.1 million is lower than Q3’s last year and total second quarter this


year, primarily as a result of less MultiClient 3D acquisition. So we use less of our vessel


capacities to generate new MultiClients and feed them. The United States amounted to $42.7


million, which is 11% down from Q3 last year, but 47% increase from Q2 this year.