Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Vice President-Corporate Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rahul Bhat — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Rob J. Pulleyn — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Gary W. Stromberg — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please go ahead.

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS conference call presenting the company's third quarter 2015 results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Vice President, IR and Corporate Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Jon Erik Reinhardsen, CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Rune Olav Pedersen, General Counsel and SVP of Legal, Communications and Marketing. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, referring to the slides available on our webpage and then open the line for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Mr. Reinhardsen, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are, therefore, to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to the CEO of PGS, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Bård. We will start at slide number 3 in the slide pack that was used this morning. No doubt we are in a tough market. Probably unprecedented in the ED seismic business is that's relatively young as an industry. Demand decline is significant and price pressure as well. We are doing and dealing with what we can do and deal with in this market, and this quarter has a number of news elements in that respect. But first and foremost, the performance in the quarter was an EBITDA of $115.3 million and with the very strong liquidity reserve of close to $0.5 billion.

As the number one of the proactive measures, we have amended the financial covenants for the revolving credit facility, increased the leverage ratio to 1 to 4.0. As part of that release [ph] relief (2:29), we have agreed not to propose dividend to be paid for 2015, and further details can be found in the release and in the slide pack.

Our full year cost reduction target has been increased and these are actual cost savings for the year now to $320 million excluding restructuring charges which now sits at around $30 million. The charges are up $10 million, savings are up $50 million, that's the net change from the previous quarter.

Obviously, the cost running rate into next year will have further savings since we then get the full year effect of the part year savings we initiate this year. So, on a net, it's fair to expect that the overall cost next year will be lower than this year even after Tethys is included in the fleet.

We have significant CapEx reductions, further cuts for this year, a lot of it helped by streamers becoming available by – from the retired vessels, so we don't have to go out and purchase new streamers. Also significant CapEx reductions for 2016 driven by the agreed delay of delivery of the last Ramform Titan class vessel, the Ramform Hyperion now to be delivered in the first quarter of 2017, still subject to approval finally by the ECA financing banks.

And finally on the list of news elements for this presentation, we have entered into charter agreement with Sanco Shipping for the two vessels, Sanco Swift and Sanco Sword. The purpose of that is for us to include these vessels in our fleet to cold-stack two of our other existing vessels in order to address the industry's overcapacity.

And there is a second but equally important purpose, and that has to do with the positioning for the further, reducing CapEx needs for fleet renewal in the more distant future and introducing a more flexible approach to the top-up capacity of what we operate. I'll come back to that a little bit later.

As a result of the continued market pressure, pricing pressure and the expectations to the late sales for the latter half of the year, we have adjusted our guidance for 2015 EBITDA to now be approximately $500 million.

Moving two slides out, we are at the order book, end of the quarter, $245 million, slightly down from the previous quarter. Vessel booking in percentage is related to October 19, so small three weeks later has a picked up a little bit since the [ph] crust (5:41) of the quarter due to success rate on recent bids driven by Ramform and GeoStreamer offering. 85% booked now for Q4, 50% for Q1 and 55% for Q2.

And with that, I hand over to Gottfred Langseth to go through the financials.

Thank you. I'll start on slide number 7, which is named condensed statement of operations summary. We had revenues of $225.7 million in the third quarter, which reflects a market-driven revenue decline of 43% in the quarter compared to last year and 28% year-to-date. EBITDA, $115.3 million.

Our cash cost reductions, as you will see, have secured a relatively stable EBITDA margin of approximately 50% both in the quarter and year-to-date. So stable margin, but given the lower revenues, obviously, the absolute numbers of – dollar numbers for the EBITDA is significantly down. We have in the third quarter quite significant non-cash charges. I will not go into them in this call, but they are detailed a bit more both in the slides and the earnings release.

I will move to slide number 9 with the heading Q3 operational highlights. We had total MultiClient revenues in the third quarter of $120.4 million, most of that pre-funding, $83.8 million in total, and corresponding pre-funding ratio of 88%. Late sales revenues were $36.6 million. Amortization rate in the quarter, somewhat higher than the two preceding quarters, 65%, and includes some write-down of certain surveys where the sales in the current market are lower and more uncertain than earlier expectations.

The marine contract revenues ended up $77.3 million and the EBIT margin on contract was approximately breakeven, a sequential improvement from the two preceding quarters, which is driven by better pricing in the North Sea season and better vessel utilization and, I would add, excellent performance of the vessels for this quarter.

Then I move quite a few slides down to slide number 14. Group cost focus delivers results. The strong cash cost development continues year-to-date and you see it well illustrated on the quarterly bars in the graphics. Cash cost base is down 27% compared to the same period for 2014. Cash cost is on a declining trend line in the second half. We had, though, a flattish development in the third quarter compared to second which is due to higher utilization of vessels. So we've been booking an incurring thereby more cost and the fact that we had one additional 2D vessel in operation in the third quarter. For the fourth quarter, cost will be down from the Q3 level.

I then move on to the next slide, slide number 15, which is named proactive cost reductions continue in 2015. This illustration, which also addresses the cost side, shows the cost reduction on a annual basis 2015 compared 2014. And as Jon Erik already pointed to, we have increased the cost reduction estimate by $50 million to $320 million total before the $30 million of restructuring charge. The primary drivers for this increase are the stacking of Ramform Viking, which was decided during the third quarter and will happen by the end of this month, staff reductions, continued reduction in project costs and from further positive impact of foreign currency exchange rates.

I then move again to slide number 17 with the heading reduced and delayed capital expenditures. 2015 CapEx is down, now estimated to $175 million, that's $50 million down from earlier estimate and plan, quite significant, and the $175 million is relating approximately $45 million to maintenance CapEx and the remaining $130 million to the new builds.

With more relevance for the next year, we have agreed with the shipyard to delay the delivery of Ramform Hyperion, previously scheduled delivery and agreed delivery, August 2016, now first quarter 2017, and this will reduce postpone 2016 CapEx by at least $80 million.

Then I will comment on one more slide, slide number 18, balance sheet key numbers. We have a strong balance sheet. We are well positioned to handle the challenging market. Our liquidity reserve of $492.3 million is strong and the remaining new build CapEx is funded, we have $220.4 million of committed undrawn facilities, which equals the remaining yard payments.

With that, I give the word back to Jon Erik.

So we have now covered the cost reductions, the CapEx reductions, the financing and the [ph] force (12:40) of these items that we had as additional news items. Today is the charter of the two Sanco Shipping vessels.

Needless to say, in the short term, these two vessels have been bid relatively aggressively in the market, so getting them on our hands will, in the short term, help from that perspective and also from the perspective of what we then can stack in other two of our own vessels. We reduce, by this move alone, the overall capacity by one vessel.

Longer term, this has another and as important aspect to us. We know from, of course, the rates we now have negotiated in the operating cost that among the conventional 3D vessels, these two are among, if not the most attractive and competitive from a cost per streamer basis seen from a full costs perspective.

It also provides us then with a low-cost and capital-light three-fleet renewal option. So, yes, the contract them for 4.5 years and 5 years, we have 3 by 2 years options going forward. So, it removes any need for new build CapEx to further substitute the 20-year-old on average first-generation Ramforms. And we keep our fleet stable by removing to vessels and cash cost operating these two vessels versus the classes on a full vessel cost basis – no, cash cost basis including maintenance for keeping the 20-year-old vessels going is quite neutral. Also, CapEx-wise, we talk about relatively small changes since we moved the streamers over and we also of course moved the seismic crew over.

So, on the next slide, slide 22, you see how our future will look like, a core of six ultra high-end Ramforms all with a towing capacity of more than 20 streamers, and we are slow getting there also in actual use. We are this winter down to seven 3D vessels, so having a core of six that we own is meaningful. And for the rest going forward, we foresee more of the high-end conventional on charter. And as per today, we now have three vessels in that category.

The remaining five Ramforms are on average now 20 years, well maintained, very competitive still and likely to have a useful life throughout another upcycle. These cost us now $2,000 a day to keep cold stacks, stacks and we can face them in when the market allows for it. For each vessel, it would be an investment in streamers and related equipment of about $50 million. Needless to say, that's not the time for doing that in this market, but with the right pricing, we will obviously bring this back to the market.

Then quickly on the market characteristics. Short term, it continues to be a very muted market. Oil price drives lower spending patterns from oil companies, reduces the demand, and pricing has been under pressure for this coming winter season. Our response, focused sales efforts, cost reduction, cash and capacity management, which we have demonstrated also through this report.

Contract bid activity is low and, therefore, there is a need to take out more capacity. We are now on slide 26. The streamer graph at the bottom shows quite a high share of streamers now coming off the market for this winter. And still, there is somewhat more needed to balance this for the winter season.

On the square kilometer side on the top, which is the proxy to demand, we are still at a level that is higher than 2008 and keeping then in mind a very short backlog of the seismic [ph] industry, that (17:30) means there is renewed or continuous investments from oil companies at a level in square kilometers that is still higher than 2008. Yes, things have happened on productivity; yes, somehow it is MultiClient; yes, there is, on average, maybe somewhat lower pre-funding, but the problem in this industry short term is capacity. And then, hopefully, demand can come up again with a stronger oil price, but that's not the most imminent need as we see it today.

With that, we move to the conclusive slide on slide 29. We have now amended our financial covenants to remove concerns about revolving credit facility covenants. We are proactively addressing the short-term overcapacity in the market. We are improving our long-term flexibility by chartering in Sanco Swift and Sanco Sword, and we are not spending cash to come in that position, very important. We are cheap on cash and continue to be cheap on cash.

We have postponed delivery of Ramform Hyperion, so it's now better positioned to hit a timing in the market when the North Atlantic region is active and therefore easier to phase in. We are continuing to take out cost, and at this point in time, we have added $50 million to the savings. We are cutting CapEx and we are still demonstrating a reasonably resilient MultiClient performance.

We have a robust balance sheet and we have no major debt maturities before 2018. And finally, as of today, all PGS vessels in operation are now GeoStreamer equipped, a fantastic competitive position to be in in this market.

Finally, slide 30 summing up. We have adjusted the EBITDA for the year to be approximately $500 million. MultiClient investments, roughly in the range we guided initially $285 million. Capital expenditures, significantly down from where we guided initially to $175 million approximately, of which most of it is related to the new build capacity.

And with that, I hand over to Bård for questions.

Thank you, Jon Erik. Operator, can you please assist us in the Q&A session?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon gentlemen Rahul Bhat from JPMorgan. I just had two quick clarifications. The first one is on the vessel booking schedule that you provide. In the Q1 2016, Q2 2016 numbers of 55% and 50%, is this – are the Sanco vessels already included?

Technically, it is based on the capacity we will have after the stacking of the three vessels this fall. So it is calculated based on Valiant and Vanguard being in the fleet. What will happen when the Sanco vessels comes in is that they will just swap. So, no, they're not in, but if we had calculated it with the Sanco vessels in, it would – the outcome would be the same.

Understood. And when you bid for a tender, then do you bid with a specific vessel or could [ph] – if you had won a (21:40) tender with the Valiant, can the Sanco Swift now work on that tender?

That will depend on where you are. Certain [ph] deals (21:51) you lock in a certain vessel and that's of course a great benefit [ph] we'll (21:55) having a family of vessels that are similar. You can easily shift because you have the same class, type vessel. In other occasions, it's more like down to a [ph] 12 similar (22:06) vessel and you can swap between other [ph] 12 similar (22:09) vessels basically. So this will vary a little bit, bit a bit.

Understood. And my last question is on the increase in amortization rate guidance. You increased that to 60%. And that takes your – that your implied Q4 amortization rate is quite high, about 70%. Is that because you're expecting some impairments and is that including that impairments or is this pure amortization that you're expecting that high?

It is an estimate, and it includes some portion, but I can't be precise on specifically how much [ph] on it is impairments are in (22:52). What's in there is obviously our [ph] back stop (22:56) amortization that we do every year. So it takes – it is our best estimate without having done any impairment calculation because we do that for – at the end of the year when we update the sales forecast.

Okay, understood. Perfect. Thank you.

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Yes, good afternoon. Christopher Møllerløkken from SB1 Markets. With the charters from Sanco, could you indicate the size of the total charter commitments now including PGS Apollo?

No.

We're not prepared to do that, Christopher. And while you're on the line, I have another chance to congratulate you on your birthday today.

Thank you. Thank you. You tend to publish the quarter result on my birthday, so it's a business as usual. But good job on the Sanco today. In terms of the supply side, you are forecasting for 2016, I'm a bit surprised by the relatively big decline you see in supply. When I look on my numbers, the difference is basically down to four vessels. And I can agree with [ph] a CGE (24:24) vessel which you probably have seen as I being current stacked. But there is three more vessels, it seem, that you [ph] leave out (24:31) of the fleet, could you confirm that that's basically the Dolphin fleet which you assume will exit the market?

I don't think that's the case, but I think maybe you should offline compare notes with Bård. We have not assumed any bankruptcies here [ph] today (24:48) in the numbers. That's an upside.

Yeah. In terms of the covenants which were amended for your part, isn't there a risk that you will see that also competitors of you get covenants amended and continued to stay alive in the weak markets?

I don't think [ph] we want to express anyway (25:19) we did with our finances and other companies did with their finances. And in many ways, I think the industry obviously needs capacity adjustments and [ph] anyways (25:33) bad for everyone operating in our segment and many [ph] other also the (25:38) segments if companies that are kept going with more capacity than it's sensible to operate longer than needed.

And finally, you did say that the main reason for the reduced guidance was lower late sales expectations, but you're still assuming late sales to pick up in fourth quarter. I assume that there is some differing opinion among other companies there?

We anticipate some uptick in late sales, but much less than we originally planned for.

Okay.

That's [indiscernible] (26:22).

Well, thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

[indiscernible]

(26:35)

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon. Rob Pulleyn from Morgan Stanley. Just two quick follow-ups, if I may. So, firstly, I presume that the charter commitment with the two new vessels will be treated as an operating lease and therefore not sit on the balance sheet, is that fair to assume? And the second question, just to get an idea of the process here, may I ask whether the revolver covenant was increased before or after you ended into the Sanco charter and were the banks aware of this arrangement when you increased the covenant? Thank you very much.

First question, yes, it is an operating lease and does not impact the calculation of the leverage ratio. Second question, I am just thinking whether we should – anyway, this is very clearly inside the flexibility that both our previous and our current [ph] – their (27:47) covenant restrictions allow for. We have a close and good dialogue with the bank, and that's all I can say.

Okay. I'll leave it be and hand it over. Thank you.

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

My questions have been answered already. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our next question, please. Go ahead, caller. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. It's Gary Stromberg from Barclays.

Good morning.

Hi, good morning. How should we think about 2016 spending? It sounds like new build CapEx will be reduced by $80 million. So am I correct in assuming we should take the $220 million of remaining payments less $80 million, so something on the order of $140 million for new build spending in 2016 and the balance in 2017?

Yeah, I think that's close. I think our earlier indication which is [ph] last when (28:58) we had our Capital Markets Day in December, almost a year back, we indicated around $250 million of CapEx in 2016, so with $80 million less. So that's the best estimate. Maybe we can come somewhat further down, so I think you're close with your estimate.

Okay. And then how about the other line items, and I realize in advance here for Capital Markets Day maybe too early but in terms of MultiClient investment and maintenance capital in 2016, specifically maintenance capital, is the $45 million maintenance CapEx number for 2015 sustainable and is that how we should think about go-forward maintenance?

Yeah. In a way, this is in line with what we said earlier. Our long-term maintenance CapEx has been consistent on that with around 10 vessel fleet is over $150 million a year to improve and replace. In difficult markets which we arguably are in today, we can reduce that materially. It – I think the current indicated level for 2015 is kind of the level we're able to get down to, but it is the stacking of vessels that allows us to do it. And I think that's a fair estimate as of today for next year, not a scope to get significantly below that, at least, maybe we'll end a little bit higher. But keeping it for, in a way, for more years beyond 2016 at such level will require taking out more vessel capacity.

Understood. And then final one from me is just on liquidity and restricted cash of $68 million, and I know that has to do with tax issue in Brazil. Is there a timeline on when that may be released and available and have you given any thought to potentially buying in your debt securities in the open market with the term loan trading in the 60s now?

We – with respect to Brazil cases, I am unfortunately not able to give any timeline. A lot of these cases date back to more than 10 years ago. And we [ph] kind of principally be (31:23) discussing this five years from now and even beyond that without anything materially happening.

With respect to buying back bonds, I didn't think it was traded in the 60s, but I've – the term loan? [ph] Yeah, I know. (31:37) But I think we have been consistently saying that our priority is to preserve our liquidity reserve. It was established and it's there for us to have good capability of managing difficult markets and negative market events and buying back our long-dated debt is not currently on the agenda.

Okay. Thank you very much.

There are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Thank you all for participating on this conference call. If you have any follow-up questions, my contact details are on the webpage and also in the materials distributed this morning. So with that, I wish you all a nice day in the U.S. and a nice afternoon in Europe. So thank you all and good-bye.

That will conclude today's conference call. Thank you, ladies and gentleman, you may now disconnect.