corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon to our international callers, and good morning to our US participants.


Welcome to PGS Conference Call following the release of the company’s earnings report for


second quarter 2006. We trust that you all have received a copy of the press release, and I would


like to thank you for the interest in PGS. With us from management today are Svein Rennemo,


Chief Executive Officer; Gottfred Langseth, Chief Financial Officer; and Ola Bosterud, Vice


President of Group Communications. Management will make some opening remarks and then


open the lines for questions.


Before I turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, we would like to comment on forward-looking


statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made


during this conference call are based on management’s expectations and predictions of the future,


and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company’s actual results


could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks


that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in


today’s release and the filings to the SEC.


I hereby turn the call over to Svein Rennemo, CEO of PGS.


Svein Rennemo, President and Chief Executive Officer


We have again put behind us a good quarter for PGS. So, fiscally, we have completed on plan the


Petrojarl demerger and offering. PGS is again entirely focused on geophysical services. We


believe the timing for this demerger is excellent. We are two years into a very strong upturn for


geophysical services driven by the increasing emphasis on exploration within the oil industry, and


increasing emphasis which is global, which is both onshore and offshore, and which we believe is a


long-term emphasis. That is also reflected in the earnings momentum for the second quarter, and


in the continued strong Marine performance. In the second quarter, late sales within Marine were


excellent, and on the contract side, we saw a doubling of contract EBIT margins, second quarter


2006 over second quarter 2005. Nevertheless, EBIT margins were lower in the second quarter


than in the first reflecting an outstanding efficiency performance in the first quarter and a dip in the


same performance, temporarily, in the second quarter related to the late start up of a few surveys in


the North Sea and in Brazil and as well as the implementation of one project outside Australia


which was part of our 2004 backlog, but which we were not able to implement to conduct in 2005.


In the second quarter, pricing and contractual terms for contract work on the Marine side continued


to improve, and we continue to believe in a 40% EBIT margin for contract for the year as a total as


previously guided. On the Onshore side, Onshore delivers healthy results, confirming the trend


from the first quarter, and anchored both in project in North America as well as the three surveys


we are conducting in Libya.


We also achieved a significant debt reduction in the second quarter in line with our stated goals and


strategies, largely related to the demerger of Petrojarl, partly related to the strong cash flow for the


quarter, and there is more to come in terms of debt reduction in the third quarter. The financial


revenues in the second quarter are up 39% compared to the same quarter last year. First half is up


51% compared to first half 2005. Operating loss up 100% for the quarter, and 188% for the first


half, and adjusted EBITDA, up 70% for the quarter and 98% for the first half. The improvement in


EBITDA Quarter 2, 2005 to Quarter 2, 2006, driven both by improvements in the Marine part of our


business and also very positively by substantial improvements in the Onshore part of our business.


With these introductory words, I hand it over to Gottfred Langseth who will take you through the


group financials and a review of the business units.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Gottfred Langseth, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


I will start with our segments, as usual starting with Marine, where we had contract revenues of


$147.7 million in second quarter, which is 57% up compared to Q2 2005, with approximately the


same portion of our fleet applied to the contract segment in the two quarters. Our operating margin


on streamer contract work as explained too was 35 percent, that’s twice the margin we had in Q2


2005, but lower than the close to 40% that we reported in Q1, and Svein explained the primary


reasons for that.


Multi-client late sales totaled $66.6 million, which is strong sales, but 9% down compared to the


very high sales we reported in second quarter in 2005. We have total pre-funding revenues on new


multi-client acquisitions of 23.9 million, or 181% of our cash investment in the quarter. So, we had


a pre-funding ratio of 181%, which is very high. The reason being, first of all, the region in which


the multi-clients are acquired, which primarily was in the North Sea, where pre-funding generally is


high in the current strong market. And also, certain catch up effects relating to the way we split


between the pre-funding revenues and late sales, and we saw certainly companies calculates pre-


funding all sales we make before the survey is completed. So, pre-funding revenues can be related


to requisitions that started before the second quarter.


Operating profit of $87.1 million, which is 50% up from Q2 2005, order backlog of 405 million, which


is at level with end Q1. Looking at how we allocated our fleet capacity in the quarter, 78% used for


contract work, 9% of streamer capacity used for multi-client, and with steaming seasonally higher at


12% typically, second and fourth quarter are the ones with most vessel movements. Moving onto


multi-client sales which were strong in the quarter, this chart shows the combined total multi-client


sales including both pre-funding and late sales. We had a strong quarter both in Europe, Gulf of


Mexico, and Brazil, with total multi-client revenues of 90 million for Marine. And notably, I am very


pleased to see that we realized close to 20 million in the late sales in Brazil in the second quarter.


On the key figures, I will jump to revenues which are at 248.7 million, which is exactly the same as


in the first quarter, and significantly, 58 million up compared to second quarter 2005. Operating


cost 117.8, which is down from the first quarter by 4 million or so, primarily since we capitalized


more costs to the multi-client library due to increased acquisitions. And, operating costs are


approximately 18 million up compared to Q2 last year, primarily due to increased activity level in


previous, but also cost inflation if comparing 2006 to 2005, relating to important infrastructure such


as salary, fuel and support vessels and similar. In addition, we capitalized somewhat less on the


multi-client library than last year.


Adjusted EBITDA, the best quarter, I believe ever, is at close to $131 million. Depreciation – higher


than the comparable quarters, 43.8, primarily due to multi-client amortization, which amounted to


33% of sales in the second quarter. Lastly, I would want to comment on the CapEx, which were at


$35.8 million in the quarter, and higher than the prior quarters; and main reason being our project to


build a new Ramform vessel where we had CapEx of close to $19 million in second quarter.


Moving on then onto Onshore, the operating profit of 7.3 million, which is little bit lower than the first


quarter, but significantly higher than the second quarter last year, 13.6 million over Q2 2005. The


main driver for this improvement and relatively strong profit is good multi-client sales relating to our


library in North America, and good contract performance both in North America and in North Africa.


On the other hand, in Nigeria, we are struggling with operating issues relating to equipment and


weather, and are currently running at a loss also in the second quarter, and also importantly, we


are struggling with security issues. So, challenges in Nigeria. And, we had a very serious security


incident in June where two of our crew members were kidnapped and held hostage for four days.


Luckily, it was – they were both released and could return to their families in good health, but it


illustrates the difficult operating environment that currently hinders operations in Nigeria. Order


backlog somewhat down to 140 million compared to 155 a quarter back, primarily since we are


working off a bit of our backlog in North Africa.