corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President, Group Communication


Welcome to this presentation of the Second Quarter Results for PGS 2009. My name is Tore


Langballe; Head of Corporate Communications in the Group. Before we start, I’d like to give you a


few practical details, as we’re broadcasting this event on the web, we would kindly ask the


audience present here today to use the microphones provided when using – when posing


questions. No fire alarms or any other alarms are planned this morning, so if you do hear an alarm


sounding, please evacuate immediately. Emergency exits out there, green sign at the back and at


the front here.


I’d also like to draw your attention to the cautionary statement showing in the presentation on the


second page. The presentation today will be given by three gentlemen, CEO, Mr. Jon Erik


Reinhardsen will introduce; Gottfred Langseth, CFO, will do a run through of the numbers and then


we have the pleasure of having Mr. Rune Eng, Head of Marine present today. He will mainly focus


on the GeoStreamer.


We also remind you that we have a conference call this afternoon at 3 o’clock CET. So, you’re free


to join that as well if you’d like.


So, by that Jon Erik, I’ll leave the floor to you.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, everyone. I see you left me with a picture of the beautiful lady, Tore. There is a


cautionary statement following. For those of you that have not picked it up, worth reading through.


And then to the numbers. First – second quarter is in line with our expectations for the full year. So


from our point of view, no big surprises. We set out the quarter with quite ambitious targets for the


quarter, both in terms of balance sheet and markets. And I’m happy to say that we have done great


progress, delivered on our own milestones, and it has led me to be slightly more optimistic than I


was a quarter ago. Not so much because the market has changed fundamentally, but more


because we demonstrate the competitive edge of our fleet and our technology. And I’ll come back


to that.


Earnings are characterized by a very strong cash flow from operations. EBIT margin of 24% before


impairments. Pre-funding quite high of 146%. And also an improvement in onshore from a first


quarter that was weak.


Balance sheet is significantly strengthened, both by the private placement, but not the least through


good cash management through the quarter. And bear in mind, sale of Geo Atlantic is not included


in the Q2 figures. That takes effect in Q3 because the deal was closed after the turn of the quarter.


So that’s for the third quarter balance sheet effect.


We see GeoStreamer gaining increasingly momentum and Rune Eng will give us some more detail


on that in his part of the presentation. Close to 85% of our fleet capacity for the year was committed


at the end of the quarter, for 2009. As a matter of fact, as we speak today, the number is close to


90%, and I’ll come back to that. We maintain our guidance for the full year and even lower our


CapEx guidance somewhat.


Looking at the numbers, put a marker around the cash flow from operations, 208 million, not far


down from our record quarters Q3 and Q4. Also worth commenting on the revenue side is that it


seems to be the driver behind some of you being higher on the expectation for the quarter. Three


factors I’d like to comment. Obviously the contract MultiClient mix taking down the revenue
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


expectation, compared to what you would expect a quarter before. Most of you, I assume, have


adjusted for that given the fleet utilization release we had. Also we did guide in the first quarter that


the income or rate level for second quarter would be lower than the first quarter.


Thirdly, there is an effect of third-party project related costs that is about 10 million lower in the


second quarter than the first quarter. These are things that comes and goes with projects. And with


the margin we had in the first quarter that would be roughly 20 million in revenue, in comparables, if


you like. That is also a factor explaining a lower revenue that then pulls through to the margins. Not


a surprise to us, but obviously not easy to guess when you look at it from the outside.


Order book sits at 743 million, slightly down from the previous quarter. But given that we are


exchanging higher margin Marine contract work with lower margin Marine contract work, actually


the order backlog in terms of vessel months is pretty stable from the previous quarter to this quarter


and average is around seven months for the whole fleet, which is about the same as we had.


Also worth mentioning that onshore backlog is about the same as previous quarter. We had 188, so


that is stable. So we have been able to renew the onshore backlog pretty much at the same level.


Also interesting in terms of dollars, in June we saw the first months since this started to decline,


where the actual backlog in dollars increased, which we take as a good sign. The booking is strong


for the quarter and this quarter is primarily contract work. It’s primarily the good vessels, Ramforms


and the GeoStreamer that is taking the bookings first. So what’s left to be sold for the year is


primarily lower-end capacity, which would of course come with an expectation of lower EBIT margin


for that part of the sales.


Close to 85% at the turn of the quarter, today close to 90%, as I mentioned, because we have


taken new orders also in July. And also interestingly when it comes to Q1 next year, approximately


45% of the capacity for Q1 is now committed. And as some of you have heard before, my concern


has been more on Q4 and Q1 and bridging that and we see that that bridging it now coming


through by the orders we’re taking.


On margin, previous quarter we said plus/minus 20%. I think we said MultiClient, that that part was


slightly above contract, it was slightly below. Margin for these orders similar, slightly below 20,


pretty much flat from Q1 when it comes to the EBIT margin we are booking on these orders.


We’ve also taken significant orders on the Data Processing side, the most significant being a 23


million data processing contract with PEMEX. And we’ve also put in operation this quarter, our first


Statoil in-house data processing center just next door here, at Vekaram.


Important though when we say, Ramforms and GeoStreamer sells well in the market today. As we


speak, that is 85% of our total streamer capacity. So it is the dominant share of our capacity that is


well positioned even in this market. As we come to the close of the year, that number will be closer


to 95%, given some restructuring measures that Rune Eng will come back to in his presentation.


And with that as an introduction, I will hand over to Gottfred Langseth, who will take us through the


numbers.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning. Starting with the Marine Q2 highlights. The total MultiClient revenues were 111.7


million, which compares to 109.1 in second quarter last year. MultiClient pre-funding was strong,


82.7 million, significantly up, compared to last year and corresponding to a pre-funding percentage


of 146%. Also that pre-funding ratio higher than second quarter last year. Late sales ended at $29.1


million. Marine contract revenues were reduced to 152 million. We used significantly less of our


vessel capacity for contract work in second quarter, 46% of total time.