corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 8, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Tore Langballe, Senior Vice President Group Communications


Very good morning to all of you and welcome to this presentation of the First Quarter Results for


PGS 2008. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in the Group. Before


we start, I’d just like to give you a few practical details. As this is being broadcasted on the Internet,


I kindly ask you to use the microphones provided when asking questions and stating your name


and company.


For the audience present in the auditorium, in this room, please take note of the emergency exits


located to the left and right at the front of the room here. No emergency drills are planned today, so


if the alarm should sound please evacuate immediately.


I would also like to draw your attention to the cautionary statement showing on the screen here,


also in the presentation and the quarterly report, please read that carefully.


In the presentation today, or the presentation will be given by CEO, Ms. Jon Erik Reinhardsen, and


the CFO, Gottfred Langseth. After the presentations, we open up for questions both from the


audience here and from the net. There is also a conference call scheduled at 3:00 O’clock


European Time, Central European Time, or 9:00 O’clock Eastern Standard Time, New York Time,


details on the web.


So by that, it’s my pleasure to introduce our new CEO, Jon Erik Reinhardsen.


Jon Erik Reinhardsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tore, and good morning, everyone. And also welcome to those of you participating on


the web. My name is Jon Erik Reinhardsen, as Tore said. Happy to be back in the oil and gas. I


spent 22 years in oil and gas, before I had my last three years in the aluminum industry.


I have now five and a half weeks on the ground in PGS, traveled to the most important offices, met


a lot of well qualified people, and impressed by the competence and creativity and commitment, not


the least, that I have seen in this organization. Also impressed by what I’ve seen of technology,


emerging technology and solutions we are able to offer to our clients.


With this as a background, I am very happy to announce the best first quarter ever in PGS. We


have a strong quarter-on-quarter growth, 30% up on revenues, 39% up on EBIT. We have


sustained a high order backlog, currently $905 million, and we have started to book a healthy


backlog for 2009. Ramform Sovereign was delivered on schedule and we also report a gain from


the sale of Ramform Victory of US$71.6 million. That’s the wrong way.


In comparison, you see revenue wise this quarter is the strongest ever, EBITDA wise second best


quarter ever. If we include the METI sales gain, we also EBIT wise have the strongest quarter


ever. And the backlog, which did a significant step up previous quarter, is maintained at the high


level.


We have introduced a new class Ramforms, the S-class, with the Ramform Sovereign, which


brings productivity in this business to a new level. These comparisons, under the bullet, the most


productive vessel are comparisons to the V-class Ramforms, which you will see are among the


best in the industry already today.
corrected transcript


Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
 
PGS.NO
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 8, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This is why the profit margin keeps increasing, it’s because the operations are improving in


sustainability, in terms of ability to deliver on target and improving in productivity through


introducing new vessels.


We have completed the first survey, 800 square kilometers in the North Sea in April, a 14 streamer


job completed in three weeks. Again, a strong record. Sterling is currently ahead of schedule. Steel


building is going on at Aker Yards facility in Romania at Tulcea yard.


You have also seen recently we announced a new job in Brazil, high definition 4D, ideally suited for


a vessel like Ramform Sovereign. It confirms our unique position in Brazil. We’re offering here the


uniqueness of the most advanced vessel in the industry to Petrobras. The contract value is 180 to


$200 million. We are going to shoot close to 5,000 square kilometers, plus an alternative program


of another 120 days.


We are going to operate a couple of alternate configurations. One of them 18 streamers times


6,000 meters with a spread of 50 meters, which is a first in the world by far. And obviously, and


needless to say, that’s how productivity is earned and that’s how profitability is made.


Then to go further into the numbers and the businesses, I hand over to CFO, Gottfred Langseth,


and I will be back later on.


Gottfred Langseth, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning to all. I will start with the – yeah. I started off with going in the wrong way. Okay,


with the Marine Q1 highlights, strong contract revenues and EBIT, totaling the revenues side 267.4


million, which is 66% up compared to Q1 ‘07. We spent more of the capacity in the contract


segment, 69% in this first quarter compared to 57 in Q1 2007. Margin, 51%. Multi-client revenues,


79.7 million compared to 92.2 million in Q1 2007.


Pre-funding revenues was 41 million compared to 51 million in Q1 ‘07. Our pre-funding


percentage, measured as a percentage of the capitalized investments, was 69% in the quarter.


That’s relatively low in sort of historical perspective over the recent years. The reason for that is


primarily that Crystal I was – Crystal II wide-azimuth survey has lower pre-funding than the Crystal I


had, plus a component of ocean bottom seismic in the multi-client investments, as well as a


significant portion of two of the investments, which has lowered pre-funding. For the year as a


whole, we have increased our expectation for pre-funding levels to a bit above 100% for the year as


a whole.


Strong growth in data processing with external revenues of 24.7 million. In addition, quite significant


processing into the library. So there is highest activity level ever for data processing in PGS.


Operating profit for our Marine segment, $174 million, if we exclude the sales gain relating to


Ramform Victory.


Order backlog, continuing at high levels, 783 million, and for the avoidance of doubt that number


which is as of end March does not include the recently announced contract in Brazil.


Turning to vessel utilizations, strong utilization in the quarter. We have announced these numbers


earlier to you in the beginning of April. 69% of capacity used in contract, 22% in multi-client


acquisition.


Multi-client revenues, as mentioned, totaling approximately $80 million. Q1 is seasonally and


typically the lower quarter in the year. And also comparing to the last three quarters, the pre-