Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tore Langballe — Senior Vice President-Group Communications, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Jon Erik Reinhardsen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Caroline L. Hickson — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, SpareBank 1 Markets AS
Geoffroy Stern — Analyst, Kepler Capital Markets SA
John A. S. Olaisen — Analyst, ABG Sundal Collier Norge ASA
Morten Nystrøm — Analyst, Nordea Bank Norge ASA (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon to international callers and good morning to US participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's first quarter results. My name is Tore Langballe, Head of Corporate Communications in PGS. With us from management today are Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen who is our CEO; Gottfred Langseth, CFO; and Bård Stenberg, Head of Investor Relations. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, referring to some of the slides in the presentation available on the web and then open the lines for questions.

Before turning the call to Jon Erik, I'd like comment on some forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this call. Certain statements made during the call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's release and in our annual report.

So, by that, I turn the call over to the CEO of PGS Mr. Jon Erik Reinhardsen.

Thank you, Tore. Before diving into the quarter numbers, I'd like to share some market reflections. We currently see a relatively stable pricing environment. This is supported by an expected low single-digit demand growth for 2014 and further supported by removal of old capacity, partly offsetting new capacity. As we have previously communicated, on average, we expect the 2014 pricing to be slightly below our average pricing achieved in 2013. We are reiterating our full-year guidance with now close to 80% of the capacity booked. Or in other words we have passed the first lap and indications are we are on track to deliver the guidance for the year.

When it comes to the first quarter performance and as earlier communicated, the softness is primarily driven by three factors. It is first and foremost a result of the high MultiClient allocation in combination with low pre-funding. The main driver for this low pre-funding is the investment in the Triton survey in the Gulf of Mexico, which we believe will bring healthy returns over time despite the ongoing overshoot. So this is postponed profit not lost profit.

Secondly, the weaker seasonal pricing in Q1 has also contributed to the weaker quarter but to a more limited degree given the lower contract volume.

And thirdly, and of less significance is the relatively higher level of yard stays and steaming in the quarter. Gottfred will go a bit more into detail on these effects.

Despite all of this we still delivered a quarter with 15% EBIT margin. Cash flow from operations was solid with $182.1 million. And we are pleased to say that Ramform Atlas, which was delivered in the quarter, is operating very successfully and with high productivity in the North Sea. We have also upgraded Ramform Sovereign to GeoStreamer, and she's also in operation in the North Sea.

In the quarter we have improved our funding position significantly. We have amended and extended the Term Loan B. We have established Japanese export credit financing for the two last Ramform Titan-class vessels and the average debt maturity is now 5.7 years.

We move to slide number five just to observe that at the cut of the first quarter, we had a backlog and order book of $610 million, which is slightly ahead of where we were same time last year, despite the fact that there is a mix of MultiClient with lower pre-funding for Q2 in the mix here. So relatively solid backlog position at the moment.

In terms of vessel booking and this is as of April 15, so it's almost a month old. But still 100% booked for Q2, 85% booked for Q3, 30% booked for Q4 and 10% booked for Q1 2015.

We turn to slide number eight just to observe the illustrated sources and uses of cash for 2014, where you clearly see the relatively comfortable cash flow from operations, funding MultiClient investments, maintenance CapEx, financial costs, and dividend. And in addition funding half the new build CapEx, while the remainder of the CapEx is financed through the export credit facility and some change in net cash.

Looking forward 2015 assuming a flat market, we look generically roughly the same. Stable pricing with more capacity should speak to a bit more cash flow. CapEx will be there for the last year. And then looking into 2016 and again assuming flat pricing, we will see significant free cash flow post investment that the company intends to use to support further growth in dividend payout and return of cash to shareholders.

And with that I hand over to Gottfred Langseth.

Thank you. I will start on slide number 10, which is called condensed consolidated statement of operations summary.

In first quarter revenues ended at $292 million, which is 26% lower than the Q1 2013. EBITDA was $138 million, 32% lower than last year. Operating profit EBIT was $45 million. The primary reason for the reduction in revenues, EBITDA, and EBIT is high MultiClient allocation, combined with a lower-than-average MultiClient pre-funding level.

We used 57% of active capacity for MultiClient in Q1. And given the cash investments of $116 million, the difference between pre-funding ratio in Q1 2014 versus 2013 corresponds to $73 million in revenues with a significant impact on EBITDA and EBIT. This explains most of the delta between the quarters.

The seasonally lower pricing in the marine contract market also contributed but with the low contract activity, it has less impact. Lastly, we had 9% more steaming and yard time compared to Q1 2013, which reduced the capacities available to produce revenues.

Moving to slide 11. Net financial items ended at $32 million. This includes $15.6 million loss from associated companies, driven by exploration costs charged to expense relating to Azimuth Limited, where we own 45%. We also had a loss relating to the refinancing of the Term Loan B, $8.8 million in the quarter.

I then move to slide number 12. Marine contract revenues were $116 million in the quarter, with an EBIT margin of 15%. MultiClient's revenues were $139 million, of which $64.8 were late sales and $74.2 were pre-funding. Our pre-funding level was 64% in Q1 due to a higher share of MultiClient activity in the Gulf of Mexico. We expect a 100% pre-funding for the full year, driven by higher fee funding above 100% in the second half. I then move to slide number 16, which is group cost development. Our cost focus delivers adequate results.

We have a relatively flat cost development from 2012 and 2013 levels despite Ramform Titan being in full operation from mid-2013. Lower than earlier regional project costs also contributed positive to cost development. The cost really increased somewhat in coming quarters with the corresponding positive impact on our revenue generation capacity. Our cost reduction program, which is targeting $30 million of run rate improvement by year-end 2014 is on track.

I then move to slide 18. Strong balance sheet position, key numbers. The debt profile was further strengthened in the quarter with an extension of our average remaining maturity of debt and committed facilities to 5.7 years, almost 6 years. Two things happen, both executed in March. The Term Loan B was reduced from $470 to $400 of nominal value and with maturity extended from 2015 to 2021. Second, we signed export credit financing for the two last Ramform new bids at a total amount of $305 million. Net debt, end of quarter $760 million, well below our established thresholds. Equity ratio as of March 31 is 58%.

With that, I give the word back to you Erik.

Thank you, Gottfred. We are moving to slide 21 to look at the bidding activity. We have until recently seen a decline in active tenders and sales leads, matched pretty much by awards for work in the North Sea. Since then, and recently, we have seen an uptick on both curves and active lead curve is in a relatively high position, taking the backlog into consideration, gives us confidence that there is a volume to come for the coming winter season.

And as a matter of fact, what the internal perception here of the market is, is that it looks like the coming winter will not be as harsh as the previous in terms of pricing competition. That is for the market in general. It's too early to translate that, of course, into margins on the individual jobs for the various companies. Survey size keep growing and favors our fleet and the larger vessels.

Moving to slide 22, we have seen a phenomenal growth of about 12% per year in square kilometers done from 2006 to 2012. This flattened out in 2013 over 2012 and is expected to grow in the low single-digits for 2014, more or less in line with the E&P spending growth expected. The good news in light of this is that also the streamer capacity growth has come down significantly, mainly because there is old and unproductive capacity being phased out.

This time, we have reported the streamer growth in terms of average available capacity and growth of such over the year, instead of year-end cut-offs as we have done earlier quarters. And if you measure that, the capacity is actually coming down slightly in 2014 over 2013, for them to go back again to a similar level in 2015.

Going to slide 24, we see that library, despite the fact that it is growing, is very healthy for the vintages in terms of book value from 2009 to 2013. So, most of the library now sits with the ongoing investments, where we are either acquiring data or processing data, and where pre-funding is still being booked in relation to the percentage of completion and partly signed up as we develop the projects. These are investments for the next five years to come and we still are confident that the business cases we have established for these are still intact and good.

Moving to slide 27, near-term outlook. We still see a sustained high oil price. We see the deepwater as attractive for the E&P. I could add to that that we see new markets opening up like Mexico and Myanmar, for instance. We even see some opportunistic seismic spending short-term due to declining rig rates that impacts demand positively.

We expect low single-digit demand growth for 2014 as mentioned and we expect, as mentioned, average 2014 pricing to be slightly below average 2013 level. Currently, we see a relatively stable pricing environment and we have now booked close to 80% of our 2014 capacity.

These leads us to reiterate our guidance for the year at slide 28 with an EBITDA in the range of $900 million to $950 million expected.

And finally, slide 29, PGS is a company well positioned for the future, significant set of differentiating technologies, cost effective operations, improved productivity through the new build vessels, solid financial position and a significant free cash flow potential down the road, starting in early 2016 with a clear ambition of increasingly returning more cash to shareholders.

And with that, I hand back to Tore Langballe.

Thank you. That concludes the introduction from PGS and we open the line for questions. Operator, please?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first questions come from Caroline Hickson with UBS.

Hi there. I had a few questions. Firstly, can you give – you had mentioned processing revenues were quite good in the quarter. Can you give a update on where you are if that segment is at breakeven or starting to make a profit?

Secondly, I notice that in previous slides you've talked about it being a healthy market for 2Q and 3Q. And those type of comments aren't in the statement today. Can you just give us some idea of how you're seeing the summer season and the pricing there?

And finally, you talked about when you were mentioning your cash flow targets, you talked about sort of assuming flat pricing going forward. Is this internally what you use? Or do you think with the new Ramforms you should be able to increase your pricing over time?

Caroline, on the processing the EBIT profit levels have turned north of 10% and continues to move upwards. And the contributions on profit increase is mainly from the GeoStreamer imaging products that we have launched that are unique to the industry. So the revenues are growing and the profit margin is growing as well in the imaging side.

When it comes to market pricing the view is still the same that the North Sea market is healthy in pricing, fully compatible to last year's prices in the market. And with more contract work in the North Sea being done in Q3 than in Q2, so even more strength in Q3 than in Q2 in terms of contract absolute numbers.

Cash flow targets and at flat pricing, obviously in any area it's hard to predict what 2015 is going to look like. So it's basically to have a reference line in terms of what it would look like when I use that term. But if you would ask – well asking the question today, I'm leaning towards 2015, probably leaning more to the positive upside than the downside in terms of pricing, given the rebalancing of supply/demand that we're now seeing.

The Titans will obviously contribute relative to any given year in our history and peers in a positive way margin-wise. But that of course is also a relative term to where the market is and the pricing is.

Okay. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Christopher Møllerløkken with SB1 Markets. Please go ahead sir.

Good afternoon gentlemen. Could you quantify the MultiClient investments you made in first quarter on the Triton projects in Gulf of Mexico?

Yeah in the capital cash investments in the MultiClient survey in Gulf of Mexico is slightly higher than $50 million.

Okay. And in terms of the costs and day rates going forward, when we try to track these, we had that they've been fourth quarter, first quarter, as you obviously have commented upon on the weak winter season. So the rates you've booked for second and third quarter it's fair to assume it would be a meaningful uptick versus Q4, Q1 levels?

That is a fair assumption.

Yeah.

And I have to apologize for this, it's mostly bookkeeping question from my part. But quite a lot of steaming in first quarter. Could you quantify the impact of deferred steaming expenses in Q1?

It's relatively limited. There is a small benefit, couple of million dollars net I think. And I don't actually have the number in front of me. It's not very material.

We can come back to you on that, Christopher.

Yes. No trouble. And two final questions. You capitalized some interest to the MultiClient library. Could you just repeat why you capitalized interest? And how we can make an assumption of how much interest you'll capitalize going forward?

The mechanics of it I think I'll revert to you separately, but it follows from the International Financial Reporting Standards that capitalization of interest is required for when constructing assets. And that goes for tangible and intangible assets. So we do that for provided in the new build vessels and also relating to the MultiClient library. And the methodology is that you take cumulative tied-up capital assets anytime on each project and you calculate an interest cost that's based on our debt interest rate. That's the mechanics of it.

Like the MultiClients used in the fleet – you have proxy for the capitalized interest to MultiClients?

I think it's – [indiscernible] (0:22:01) but it's not necessarily the use of the fleet. It's for each project, the net capital or net balance sheet value as long as it is in progress.

Okay. And finally, On the revenues in first quarter, roughly $10 million. Could you say what that was?

These are – 80% of that approximately it's related our [indiscernible] (0:22:25) technology, while around 20% of those $9 million is rest of our services.

Okay, great. Thank you.

We will now move to Geoffroy Stern with Kepler Cheuvreux. Please go ahead, sir.

Yeah, good afternoon. I have a couple of questions. Coming back on pricing and the previous question, actually, just wanted to make it clear, when you look at unit pricing or if you wish contract revenue per streamer in Q1, it was fairly flat compared to Q4, but which means that in Q1, it's down 20% to 25% versus Q1 last year, according to my calculation. The question is, if you assume, let's say, pricing in Q2 and Q3 this year to be flattish compared to last year, is it also fair to assume that contract revenue per streamer will be flat? So, that's my first question. And the second related one is the impact on the EBIT margin. You said that on average this year you expect pricing to be slightly down versus the 2013 average. So, last year, you posted a 30% contract EBIT margin. So, I guess the contract EBIT margins this year will only be slightly down compared to this average. I just wanted you to make some comments on this as well.

If I can start with the, in a way, the contract revenues or capacity or they can put a streamer in the contract segment, it's correct that it is quite a bit down from Q1 last year. But in estimating this going forward, it is important to be aware that the revenue – the gross revenue number, to a significant degree, is impacted by the complexity and total setup of the project that we execute, a single vessel operations with limited logistics, security and similar surrounding the operation would be. We'll have the lower revenues but may well have the same profitability.

In the first quarter 2013, we were on the very high end, if you look at the total cost of service, including those of support vessels and helicopter standbys and similar. So, in Q1 2014, we have been in the other end of the scale in that I respect with more single vessel operations that where we incur only our own costs and not for third party cost in addition. Therefore the revenues, quite significantly, down if you measure it by streamer, but the profitability isn't as much down as the revenue reduction as you will have observed.

So, it is – we expect the revenue per streamer, yes, will increase into the second and the third quarter, but it's difficult to give a mechanical margin answer based on how revenue per streamer develops, because it's so much impacted by project-specific cost. If you look at the cost slide we included today, you'll see the project related costs are overall relatively low, and they're even lower in the contract segment, since a lot of the projects related costs are related to, among other things, to our survey in the Gulf of Mexico. So, they will vary a little bit.

To your other question on pricing and how it translates to margins in percentage, the one factor Gottfred mentioned, obviously, is one element that can skew the margin translation in terms of if there's a lot of gross cost pass-through in the revenue number that can dilute the margin in percentage. When we bid work, we evaluate opportunities on the basis of dollars per streamer per day rather than EBIT margin in percentage. So, there could be a job that say could bring home 22% EBIT. That for us is a better job than a job that could deliver 30% EBIT, because there's more gross pass-through but actually more money left on the bottom line to us in actual dollars.

So, it's fine to look at EBIT percentage margins as a measure of profitability, but when you compare it, year-on-year, job-to-job, it's not always a fair assumption. And therefore also looking forward, it's not always an accurate way of predicting the forward going measure. And bear in mind when we talk about pricing, it's really sort of a reference, assuming that we have adjusted for somebody's pass-through factors also that try to balance [ph] over say (0:27:26) this is the pricing environment but it's not an exact term with three decimals behind a comma. That's not possible because every job is different and we operate in different regions, just to clarify a little bit of those elements.

Okay, thanks. And then thanks for this. I have a follow-up on pre-funding, again. If we look at your committed – actually your committed pre-funding on MultiClient surveys included in the backlog, so it amounted to only $48 million. At the end of Q1 last year, it was much higher at $165 million. So I mean can you [ph] contend (0:28:10) that let's say since then the commitments have significantly increased, because frankly speaking just looking at those numbers, it's a bit frightening in my view, but can you clarify that?

Yeah, I mean the numbers you have there is a cut-off 30th of March and we are now well into May. And we have signed up pre-funding since then. That is correct.

Okay. And so you will say that as of May you're not that different compared to last year in terms of committed pre-funding?

I don't recall a May number for last year, but remember in last year's number Q1, we had a significant Uruguay number that was basically pulling us through the following three quarters, I think, at the time, so even into – four quarters – even into 2014. So, it was not all the pre-funding last year that was relevant for 2013 deliveries, if you like. There was actually more pre-funding for this year in last year's book, actual number if you like.

Okay. Again and then a final one on this if I may? To what extent the overlap you have on your Triton survey in the Gulf of Mexico with CGG add negative impact on pre-funding in Q1?

No, I mean, the way I would answer that is that, obviously, went two contractors are both collecting data in the same area gives the oil company an opportunity to lean back and wait a bit and see. We still believe that we have a data set here and this data is starting to come out of the system now. That is quite unique for this area and we actually have a very advanced and good dialog with clients about this. When the various clients commit will vary a lot from client-to-client. But the fact that two companies are overshooting in same point in time does dilute the short-term cash flow for both of them.

Having said that it is not uncommon that there is overshoot with different technologies in the Gulf of Mexico. We have experienced that before with our surveys as well. That has still delivered nice returns for the surveys. And we expect actually a pretty decent return on this survey as well.

All right thank you very much.

We will now move to John Olaisen with ABG. Please go ahead.

[Foreign Language] (0:30:50).

Hello?

Can you hear me?

Yes.

Hello, can you hear me?

Yes.

Hello, good afternoon. I just wondered on slide number five, the vessel booking per quarter for the rest of the year, that's as of April 15?

Yeah.

Is it possible to give those number for the quarter as it looks as of now?

I don't have them as for now, but there has been booking since then. And that was the last cut-off we had ready for publishing. I mean going forward now of course all our efforts are on booking the winters, as we are so well booked for the summer season. So there's a lot of dialog going on several surveys at the moment for the winter season.

And then my final question. Page number 27 you write that you've seen rig rates coming down, which gives the oil companies more cash. And you've seen that they're spending that on seismic instead. I'm a little bit puzzled about that, because most of the rig rates that we've seen coming down are actually contracts awarded now for work in 2015 and onwards. I'm a little bit surprised that you see positive impact of that now already? Can you expand a little bit please?

Yeah. You probably read bullet in a different way than it was intended. The opportunistic spending is expressed from the clients in the sense that they would like to accelerate surveys. And therefore do more surveys in parallel, because they want to capture the opportunity that the low rig rates would be and use that window to book in time before potentially it could come up again.

All right so they want to buy more seismic so that they could drill more while rig rates are low? [ph] Is that what you would say? (0:32:42)

Yeah.

And you have noticed that kind of effect already?

Well oil companies have come to us and asked us to accelerate survey by putting more capacity on for that reason.

All right that's all from me. Thank you.

Thank you.

We will now take a question from Morten Nystrøm with Nordea. Please go ahead sir.

Yes good afternoon gentlemen. A question regarding your guidance. You say that you're on track on delivering according to your guidance. Given the fact that analysts are broadly speaking below your guidance, I would assume that you would have used the opportunity to lower your guidance if you believe the guidance were at risk.

Since you're now reiterating your guidance could you please give us some more confident in how you derive this 2014 EBITDA guidance for the full year? And also – yeah start with that.

I mean the main point to point to there, Morten, is that if you calculate 100% pre-funding on the basis of the investment to be guided to and assume some growth in the late sales, and as I said this morning also obviously some higher contract margin for the rest of the year compared to Q1. Those are the components that build up to that number.

Okay. In terms of the Triton survey do you – based on the discussions you have with clients now should we expect to – or have you any expectations to receive pre-funding on this survey in the second quarter? And I don't know if you would answer this but how much of this let's say revenue from the Triton survey do you consider into your 2014 EBITDA guidance?

To the first part of course we have an ambition to bring in as much revenue as early as possible, and Q2 is clearly a target for some of the prospects we're working on. Whether the clients are ready and willing to commit to in that timeframe is obviously what we work on at the moment. When it comes to the full-year revenues assumed for the survey, it's not kind of a detail that we go into on any survey in any guidance. And obviously, year-end you will always see fluctuations, some of them coming higher and some of them coming lower.

When we make our prognosis, we do a probability weighted revenue number where every opportunity we know of is given a certain probability and that trickles out as the revenue number we use in our prognosis. Needless to say, during the year, those probabilities change up and down and there are opportunities coming in from the left and right that we have not had in the original prognosis. That's how it works. That's how we work every year. And how the end number comes in basically.

Thank you. Final question, and that's the – The Triton survey, I think you said is around until August. Could you also remind us on what other MultiClient surveys you're doing in the second quarter?

Yes. We have – let me just see from the top here in the North Sea – second quarter [indiscernible] (0:36:30). North Sea, North Sea. [indiscernible]

(0:36:38) North Sea and then we have some starting some 2D in Canada.

Yeah, and finishing in South Africa now on the 2D.

Should we think investment level in the second quarter as largely in line with the first quarter?

I think largely in line is reasonably right. From the comments that we made in the slides that we plan to spend slightly less capacity, lower proportion of the capacity in the second quarter than what we did in the first quarter. So, there is a better chance that it would be on the low side.

Okay. Okay. How about steaming in the second quarter? One of your vessels is moving, I think, to Angola now. Is that the major steaming we should expect for the second quarter?

Steaming is relatively low, or close to the year average I suspect in the second quarter, much lower than that in the first. We said that the yard time would be relatively high in the second quarter 5% to 7%, but steaming is not going to be higher than average.

Thank you.

So it was a bit lower. [Operator instructions]

We now will take a follow-up question from Christopher Møllerløkken from SB1 Markets. Please go ahead.

Yeah, just a quick follow-up. Could you guide on the development of the third-party costs in second and third quarter?

You're making life difficult, Christopher, but...

That's my job.

Project – the prognosis that it is today is that's not – that second quarter is pretty much the same level as first quarter and then slightly higher than the third and fourth.

Okay. Thank you.

We will take another follow-up question from Caroline Hickson with UBS. Please go ahead.

Obviously, the tax rate was higher this quarter and you've explained the reasons for that. Can you just give guidance for what it will be for the remainder of the year? Should it return to more normal levels?

We expect for the full year sort of in low-20s, between 20% and 25% reported tax rate, subject to no material changes to the exchange rates and similar.

So, is that 20% to 25% including the very high tax rate in 1Q, or you mean 20% to 25% for 2Q, 3Q, and 4Q?

I meant through the year. The tax rate is high as we have said and you'd point to in the first quarter but then again the pre-tax profit isn't extremely high in the first quarter. [ph] We'd not weigh (0:39:59) that much. We're not talking about a large number of dollar deviation from a normal tax rate. So, for the year-end, it's I think both would indicate more or less the same. But 20% to 25% for the full year. That's our expectation.

Okay. Thanks.

We will now take another follow-up question from Morten Nystrøm from Nordea. Go ahead sir.

Yes. Just a follow-up on the Triton again. Let's assume you guys do receive pre-funding in the second quarter. How will this be booked in terms of revenue, since you basically, by the end of the second quarter, you've done like, say, 80% of the survey already? Is it fair to assume that if you receive funding from one client that will isolate it, or have a tremendous effect of the second quarter pre-funding level? Is that the way to understand it?

Yeah, we book it on a percentage of completion basis as you indicate in your question. So, whether we would be 80% done, in a way – we're close to being done with acquisition, but then there's a processing phase going beyond that. But we will then apply the gross sales number to the cumulative – the completion percentage. So, if it was 80%, we then record as a revenue 80% of the sale. That's correct. So, you have a catch-up effect. So, if you get pre-funding in the second quarter of production, you would then catch-up with the revenue relating to the production in the first quarter and the second quarter.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

It appears that we have no further questions at this point.

Okay. And then we'll just thank you all for participating and feel free to contact us at any point in time. Have a nice day. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does will conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.