Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bård Stenberg — Senior Vice President-Investor Relations & Communication, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Rune Olav Pedersen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Gottfred Langseth — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Petroleum Geo-Services ASA
Christopher Møllerløkken — Analyst, Carnegie Investment Bank AB (Norway)
Sahar Islam — Analyst, Goldman Sachs International

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

You may begin.

Good afternoon to our international callers and good morning to our U.S. participants. Welcome to PGS Conference Call presenting the company's First Quarter 2019 Results. My name is Bård Stenberg, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Communications in PGS.

With us from management today are Rune Olav Pedersen, President and CEO; and Gottfred Langseth, CFO. At today's call, management will make some short opening remarks, referring to the slides available on our Web page, and then, open the lines for questions.

Before I turn the call over to Rune Olav, I would like to comment on forward-looking statements that might be made during the course of this conference call. Certain statements made during this call are based on management's expectations and predictions of the future and are therefore to be considered as forward-looking statements. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted in these forward-looking statements. Factors and risks that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are detailed in today's press release and in the 2018 Annual Report.

I hereby turn the call over to President and CEO of PGS, Rune Olav Pedersen.

Thank you, Bård. I'm going to stop commenting on slide number 3, Q1 2019 highlights, weak results full-year intact. And it is my opinion that this presentation shows that although we did deliver a weak Q1 2019 result, the full year is still intact for us.

The results in the first quarter were impacted by the seasonal distribution of our 2019 MultiClient investments. We had four of our six vessels in operation doing MultiClient, and at least three of these were on the MultiClient project with low or no prefunding. These are all three good projects and we expect to have revenues from these projects both in the prefunding phase later – or in the prefunding phase and in the late stage phase.

This combination of projects, where a lot of the lower prefunding projects that ended up in one quarter will reverse in the quarters to come and the prefunding for – sorry, the MultiClient projects we expect to do in the second and third quarter, have quite significantly more prefunding. So for the year, we have stated that we expect the prefunding on our MultiClient investments to be in the upper half of the guided range, which is 80% to 120% cash cost.

Also in the first quarter, we experienced a strong order book increase. The order book has increased some 50% or close to 50% and this increase of new orders or increase in order book have and will continue into April. So, we'll come back to it.

This order book increase is done based on high contract pricing, and the prices on the booked capacity in 2019 is more than 35% higher than the average price we achieved in 2018. So, it's good to see that we're able to build backlog and do it at higher pricing.

I will then jump and move to slide number 6, called order book. As I just mentioned, the order book is up. It is currently sitting – or sorry, it is, as of 31st March, 2019 rather, the order book is $238 million, which is a 40% increase from year-end. We are currently in the process of finalizing contracts with a minimum value of $60 million, which will obviously then add to the order book once they are finally signed.

The vessel booking, which is based on both the order book and on these contracts we anticipate on signing very soon, is that we're fully booked in the second quarter. We have 20 vessel months booked in the third quarter, so very close to fully booked, and in the fourth quarter, we have eight vessel months booked. So with the order book and the booking, we see that the visibility is significantly improved and we expect strong utilization in Q2 and Q3. And all of this put together is why we believe that a better 2019 is still expected from PGS – better than 2019, I should say.

With that, I hand over to you, Gottfred.

Thank you. I will comment on four slides in the next section. I will start on slide number 9, which is called consolidated key financial figures. At the top of the table here, we show the segment numbers. Segment revenues for Q1, $141.9 million; segment EBITDA, $66.6 million; and segment EBIT was a loss of $29.3 million.

As-reported numbers, as we defined it in accordance with IFRS, for revenues and EBIT are somewhat lower than the segment numbers. This is purely timing-related and down to when the final product is delivered when it comes to MultiClient projects. And the timing difference, you can see with reference also to the full-year 2018 where our as-reported numbers were quite significantly higher. So over time, this would obviously even out.

Net financial items was a cost of $22 million in the quarter, same level as we had in Q1 2018. Income tax expense for Q1 was low, $0.6 million of tax expense. The primary reason is that we did not operate in countries with high withholding taxes in this first quarter. Most quarters, we have some operations in countries where withholding taxes are significant.

Couple of other points on the slide, net cash flow from operating activities, quite strong in the quarter, $119.4 million, benefiting from collection of receivables from the strong sales that we had in Q4 of last year. Cash investment in MultiClient library, $62.1 million. That's higher than the $53.7 million we had in Q1 last year. As a result of more vessels acquiring MultiClient service, we had four of our six operated 3D vessels on MultiClient surveys throughout the first quarter. Capital expenditure for the quarter, $11.5 million. Most of this relates to the reactivation of Ramform Vanguard as a result of the sale of Ramform Sterling to Japan.

I will then move to the next slide, actually, number 10, Q1 2019 operational highlights. The total segment MultiClient revenues was $90.9 million in the quarter. As Rune explained, there was an overweight of low prefunded MultiClient projects in this [ph] whole (00:08:29) quarter, bringing prefunding level to 48% of the $62 million of MultiClient cash investments. This is an outlier compared to what we generally and normally report and expect to report going forward.

Late sales, limited Q1 triggering events, but revenues, still inside what we see as normal quarterly fluctuations for, in a way, the three first quarters of a year, whereas the fourth quarter, normally, significantly stronger. Contract revenues, $44 million in the quarter, starting to benefit from the higher pricing we're seeing in 2019 but not fully so because the first quarter is impacted by some projects with a seasonally weak pricing.

Moving a few slides down to number 14, consolidated statements of cash flow summary. With the risk of repeating myself, the cash from operations, $119 million, benefited from a collection of the stronger sales we had in Q4, and thus, a positive working capital development in the first quarter.

In the first quarter, we received the first 50% install – of the sales price for Ramform Sterling. After deducting the costs to make the vessel ready for delivery and to relocate and deliver in Japan, the net cash flow effect in Q1 was $44.6 million and this reported under cash from investing activities.

Subsequent to quarter end, the vessel has been delivered in April and we have also received the second installment, approximately 26% of the sales price or $27 million. The last – third and last installment will be paid in April 2020, one year from now. We have $7.1 million of CapEx in the first quarter, relating to the reactivation on Ramform Vanguard.

Moving to the next slide number 15, balance sheet's key numbers, we had a net interest bearing debt, excluding lease liabilities, of $1,051.7 million at quarter end. This is a reduction of approximately $100 million from a year back and approximately $60 million over the quarter or compared to the start of the year.

Liquidity reserve of $205.4 million, which is an increase of just over $45 million in the quarter. Our total leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, 2.85. This is an increase from three months back, still substantial headroom to the required level, and we should see the ratio reduced in coming quarters.

With that, I will hand over – or give the word back to Rune Olav.

Thank you, Gottfred. I am going to move directly to slide number 21, which is named seismic market outlook. We still expect that the significant cash flow that our clients are experiencing will result in higher CapEx for them, and thereby, higher investments in seismic, and thereby, again, contribute to further recovery of the marine seismic market. We believe that the marine contract seismic market is likely to benefit more, relatively speaking, and then, the MultiClient market, which has already moved quite significantly last year. And we can see that partly, we're going to begin our more than 35% higher prices for booked capacity in 2019 and then the average rate in 2019.

We can also see it in significant contracts award year-to-date, which I talked about already. And for 2019, we expect that the seismic volume acquired will be approximately 10% to 15% higher than in 2018 and that most of the world seismic fleet will be fully utilized through the year.

And now, I'm going to move to our guidance slide, on slide 23. We keep our guidance unchanged. Group cash cost of approximately $550 million, excluding deferred steaming; MultiClient cash investments of approximately $250 million, and more than 50% of our active 3D vessel time will be allocated to MultiClient in 2019; CapEx of approximately $85 million.

Then, to the final slide, slide 24, summary. I'll repeat that the Q1 results were impacted by an overweight of low prefunded MultiClient surveys, but also that we expect this to reverse in the coming quarters, and that we expect prefunding for the year to end up in the upper half of our guiding range, namely that the guiding range is 80% to 120%. So, we expect prefunding to be above 100%.

I'll also repeat that we have had a strong order book increase, and that, that has continued into April and we expect to close further contracts in the days and weeks to come. The booked prices, which are included in this order book is, as I have mentioned a few times, significantly higher than the average in 2018, and all of this is recovering seismic market. We see that the market is recovering. We believe that market's recovery to be gradual. So, it's not a very strong market recovery, while it is gradual and it is continuing, and we expect it to continue to recover and strengthen during 2019 and into 2020.

So finally, our position of being an integrated seismic company, operating both in the MultiClient and contract space, having imaging and R&D will, in our opinion, continue to benefit us and strengthen our leadership position in the seismic market going forward.

So with that, Bård, I guess we can open up for questions.

Yeah. Operator, can you help us facilitate the Q&A session?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. How are you doing? I was [ph] a bit (00:16:11) curious...

Please go ahead.

...about debt refinancing for the term loan as well as the senior notes. Thanks.

Yeah. We haven't communicated a lot of detail around this today. What we're saying is that we expect to refinance in 2019 and that we are prepared to execute on that on a short notice. The exact timing and structure, obviously, is dependent on financial market conditions.

Thanks, guys.

We will now take our next question. Please go ahead.

Yes, good afternoon. This is Christopher Møllerløkken from Carnegie. You're implicitly guiding a higher prefunding ratio this year versus last year. But at the same time, when you see the secured prefunding for the remainder of the year, it is well below the level seen last year. How would you bridge that gap and how comfortable are you in the prefunding guidance?

Well, I am – what we're guiding this year, obviously, first of all, whether it's higher than or lower than last year...

[ph] I can call that (00:17:46).

... [indiscernible] (00:17:47). Yeah.

There is a technical effect thereon, just to – we'll revert to the [ph] subset (00:17:52) of the question.

Yeah.

But just to start with the technical, Christopher, and if I remember correctly, our prefunding ratio last year was 102, yeah, percent.

Yeah.

Yeah.

So – and we now said it will be in the – perhaps, which is between 100% and 120%. And since we are capitalizing less, and you'll see from one of the slides in the deck and what we said on the Capital Markets Day, there is an estimated impact of $20 million less of capitalization due to the IFRS 16 accounting, where some of our cash costs are now instead reported as depreciation and interest cost, and we have recorded assets and lease liabilities in the balance sheet. So if you do the technical calculation, that has a somewhere between 7% and 8% impact on the prefunding numbers. So, just...

Yeah.

... [indiscernible] (00:18:56) to that. So, it may not necessarily be higher, but obviously, it could be higher.

Yeah, higher, and let's stay in the same ratio. [indiscernible] (00:19:02) to your question, how can we resort to that, we will reach that with the low prefunding in the first quarter. That's a relevant question, obviously.

It is part of the reason we are going out saying what we are saying is that what we see of MultiClient projects in the second and third quarter obviously have very high prefunding already secured. So, that gives some comfort. And then, it is a combination of the – looking into the leads basket for, call it, late prefunding for the remainder of the year, which obviously, somewhat it is quite certain and will happen in the second and third quarter and something more uncertain in the fourth quarter.

So we cannot, at this stage, be certain that we will reach that, but it is our best estimate based on the review of all the prefunding revenues which we have done following this quarter. But since it involves project in the fourth quarter, which we have not yet secured, and it involves also sales in the prefunding phase, certainly cannot be guaranteed on this point. It is an estimation of what we see as the most likely outcome.

Thank you. The $60 million you referred to in terms of tenders being in the process of being closed, is that mainly contract or mainly MultiClient or under mixed?

It's a mix. It's – sorry?

It is mainly contracts.

It's two contracts and one MultiClient...

Yeah.

...basically sitting in there in those, yeah. And when we talk MultiClient, it's signing up our prefunding for projects to come.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] There are no questions in the telephone queue at this time. Oh, pardon me. We will now take our next question. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, it's Sahar Islam from Goldman Sachs. Thank you for taking my question again. A couple of follow-ups on this morning. So firstly, on 4D, you talked about that driving some of the price increases. So, could you talk a bit about where the demand for that 4D is coming from, if there are any particular regions?

And then, secondly, just more broadly on the constructive exploration CapEx comments you made this morning, how do we tie that in with the capital discipline message still coming from the majors?

Yeah. 4D is a market – I mean, 4D market is generally been in some distinct markets. The North Sea has been a 4D market and still continues to be so. So, there are several 4Ds in the North Sea this year. Angola is another 4D market and we have a very large 4D project commencing very soon in Angola as well. Guyana, the work we're doing there is mainly 4D, or exclusively 4D, actually, [ph] the weight (00:22:25) has now played out. So, these are the main markets for us with respect to 4D in 2019 and traditionally also the main markets for 4D work.

And then, your second question, with respect to how we tie in disciplines from the majors, there are comments on discipline on CapEx with, I guess, an increase in activity on the seismic side, I assume, it's this question.

Yeah.

I guess the way we tied in is that when you look at our cash flow and their needs and the dialogue with the assets teams in the majors around the world, you should have seen a much larger uptick in seismic spending than what we are currently seeing. So, we actually believe that the discipline that the majors are talking about is playing out a fairly large degree, and that's why we are seeing a more gradual increase in the seismic market and [indiscernible] (00:23:32) an even stronger increase in the seismic market.

So I guess you could say, if there is a word called underlying demand there, where all the asset teams, demand there is stronger, and then, the headquarters of most of these companies are holding back and being restrictive and disciplined in their spending. So, that is how we see this play out at least.

Thank you. And if I could ask one follow-up, so demand is getting stronger. You've said that obviously contract vessel rates are up significantly. So, does that mean that the MultiClient library pricing is going up as well?

That is – that's just very difficult to measure because it's just – it's difficult to compare pricing like we can in the contract market. So, it's – you could just – at least we and others should assume that. In our [ph] upcoming (00:24:36) market, yes, we will make more money in the MultiClient segment as well and that returns on the investments we do there will be higher than it is on a [ph] downgoing (00:24:46) market. But to compare pricing to pricing and on any given point and even on, let's say, half year or a year, is just very difficult.

We, like the fourth quarter last year, where we see great demand obviously, that impacts pricing. Pricing goes up. And when you see less demand, then pricing typically go down. But other than general comments like this, it's difficult to give more specific regarding pricing in the MultiClient market because of the nature of that market.

Understood. Thank you.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] There are no further questions at this time.

Okay. That concludes this conference call. Thank you all for participating and have a continued nice day.