corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT, Inc. Second Quarter 2010


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder, today’s conference call is being recorded.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to your host Mr. Mick Ferrucci, Vice President and General


Counsel. Please go ahead.


Mario Ferrucci III, Vice President and General Counsel


Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s second quarter 2010 conference call. I’m Mick


Ferrucci and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO; and Jeff Jackson,


Executive Vice President and CFO. Rod and Jeff will represent PGT on this morning’s call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995.


These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty.


Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please


refer to the August 4 press release, our most recent Form 10-K and other documents filed with the


SEC. We undertake no obligations to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for


evaluating performance internally.


A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in the press release. These


non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in


accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional


information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the second quarter, then Jeff


will discuss our results in more detail. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Mick. Good morning, everyone. I’m pleased to report that for the first time since 2006, we


recorded year-over-year sales growth, as sales in the second quarter increased 4.6% compared to


the second quarter of 2009. While we are still experiencing difficult market conditions, we took


actions necessary to increase sales in new markets and with new products.


Our growth was driven by our out of state sales up 1.7 million or 28% compared to prior year and


growth in our Florida sales of 3% or 1.1 million. These increases were offset somewhat by a


decrease in sales into international markets, which are down 28% or 700,000 from a year ago.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


These markets are experiencing similar trends that we saw in the United States over the past


couple of years.


With regard to new products, our SpectraGuard lines with sales growing 800,000 lead our out of


state growth. Additionally, two new products had a positive impact on our Florida sales. First, our


new PremierVue line of high end vinyl impact products contributed 1.1 million in additional sales.


Second, our new vinyl, non-impact replacement product, specifically designed for the Florida


market, contributed 600,000 in additional sales for the quarter. These new product increases were


offset somewhat by lower WinGuard sales, which were down in all territories by 1.8 million.


Sales into the R&R market increased 6% over a year ago, while sales into the new construction


market were essentially flat. As a percentage of total sales for the second quarter of 2010, R&R


sales accounted for 76% and new construction sales accounted for 24% of sales. Comparing our


second quarter to the prior year second quarter; sales increased 2.1 million or 4.6%, driven by an


increase in both our repair and remodeling markets and out of state markets.


Gross margin increased 600,000 from last year, due mainly to the increase in sales. As a


percentage of sales, gross margin was 31.1% versus 31.2% and was affected by a shift in mix


toward non-impact products.


SG&A costs increased 1.4 million, due mainly to an increase of 700,000 in non-cash stock


compensation expense and other compensation expense of approximately 400,000. EBITDA was


5.3 million in the second quarter of 2010, which is down 800,000 from prior year. The decrease in


EBITDA was driven mainly by the increase in compensation related expense. Net income was


1,000 in the second quarter, compared to a profit of 300,000 in the second quarter of 2009.


Within our core market, housing continues to show year-over-year growth as total starts in our core


market were up 41% in the second quarter compared to last year, driven by an increase in single


family starts of 47%. This is the second straight quarter with year-over-year growth. As we


mentioned in the first quarter conference call, we believe these starts were inflated somewhat by


the tax incentives, which expired on April 30, 2010. This is evidenced by the fact that starts in the


month of April were the highest for any month in the quarter.


Other positive signs suggesting the beginning of a recovery include a 25% increase in existing


home sales compared to the prior year quarter in our primary market of Florida and a decrease in


inventory levels compared to the prior year in certain primary market cities, including 22% in Miami


and 13% in Tampa. However, housing start levels are still much lower than what we would expect


in a normal cycle, and many negative conditions remain, such as pending foreclosures and high


unemployment, which is still around 10% nationally and over 11% in Florida.


All of these factors contributed to mixed feelings in the marketplace, where some believe we are in


the beginning of a recovery and others feel that we are nearing a double dip recession. Either way,


we will continue to execute [Inaudible] initiatives designed to provide growth in new markets and


continue to dominate our core market of Florida.


Finally, I would like to update everyone on our recent energy initiatives. We announced in an April


press release that we now have an R-5 Impact Window, the first in our industry, further


strengthening our leadership position in the impact market and demonstrating our abilities in the


energy-efficient window arena. R-5 Windows have a U-factor of less than 0.22, which satisfy the


requirements of the Department of Energy R-5 volume purchase program.


We also just received the U.S. Department of Energy’s Save Energy Now award for achieving more


than 7.5% total energy savings within our own manufacturing process. We are committed to driving


down our energy consumption while helping consumers cut their energy cost. Here at PGT, we


have a long history of providing superior customer service and high quality products for over the