corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to the PGT Incorporated Third Quarter 2009


Earnings Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn


the conference over to Jeff Jackson. Please go ahead, sir.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you and good morning. Welcome to PGT’s third quarter 2009 conference call. I’m Jeff


Jackson, CFO and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO. We will represent


PTG on this morning’s call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our current expectation and are subject to risk


and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking


statements. So please refer to yesterday’s press release and our most recent Form 10-K filed with


the SEC. We undertake no obligations to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relation section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are, the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and adjusted information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-GAAP measures as key metrics for


evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures can be


found in our Form 8-K filed yesterday with the SEC. These non-GAAP measures are not intended


to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather we believe the


presentation of non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate


the past and present performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the third quarter. Then I’ll


discuss our results in more detail. After our prepared remarks, we’ll take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. As I mentioned in our press release, the third quarter


produced some signs that there is a recovery taking place in the home building industry. Several of


the nation’s largest homebuilders report increase in new homeowners and decreases in


cancellations.


The existing home sales in September increased 34% compared to the prior month in our primary


market of Florida, as buyers who were reluctant to enter the market move to take advantage of


sales incentives, distressed bargains and the first time home buyers tax credit of 8,000. We also


saw a 10% increase in sequential quarter single and multi-family construction starts during the third


quarter.


However, new home construction remains at a historically low level as starts in our core market


were down 42% in the third quarter compared to last year’s third quarter. The continued decline in


home prices and low interest rate, plus the tax incentives for first time homebuyer provided some


beneficial economic effects during the quarter.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


But the negative economic effects of increased foreclosure and mortgage delinquencies, tight credit


standard and higher unemployment, which is now almost 10% nationally, will likely continue to


hamper any recovery in the homebuilding industry and make predicting the timing and extent of a


turnaround or even stability difficult.


In the face of this market, our sales decreased 23%. Compared to the third quarter of 2008, sales


into the repair and remodeling market were down 13%, while sales into the new construction


market were down 43%.


As a percentage of total sales for the third quarter of 2009, R&R sales accounted for 73% and new


construction sales accounted for 27% compared to the third quarter of 2008 where R&R sales


accounted for 64% and new construction represented 36%. Even in this challenging environment,


we continue to invest in new product offerings to better serve our customers.


In August, we began taking orders of our new Vinyl Series 400 and Vinyl WinGuard series 500


windows that qualify for energy tax credits provided for through the American Recovery and


Reinvestment Act of 2009. This Act includes an incentive for U.S. homeowners to receive a 30%


tax credit for the cost of energy-efficient home improvements made in 2009 and 2010 up to $1,500.


In a dealer and distributor road show in late September, we rolled out our new Series 670 and 770


Sliding Glass Door to the marketplace. The feedback has been outstanding. Our customers are


thrilled with this improved aesthetics, clean design, ease of installation and many new features the


door offers. The product line also includes a Series 870 high-performance Sliding Glass Door. We


began taking orders in late October and early indications are that the new doors are a success.


While we expect this new sliding glass door to eventually replace certain of our existing sliding


glass door products, we think its new design and features will drive incremental sales well into the


future.


As we announced in a press release in mid-August, we acquired the operating assets of the


Hurricane Window and Door Factory previously located in Fort Myers, Florida. Hurricane window


and door design and manufactured high-end vinyl impact products for the single and multi-family


residential markets. The products provide long-term energy and structural benefits, while qualifying


homeowners for the government’s energy tax credits through the American Recovery and


Reinvestment Act of 2009.


The product line was developed specifically for the hurricane protection market, combined some of


the highest structural ratings in the industry along with excellent energy efficiency. The acquisition


of this product line, which we have branded Premier View, expands our presence in the energy-


efficient vinyl impact resistant market, including our ability to serve the multi-storey condo market


and enhances our ability to offer a complete line of impact products to the customer.


Sales of our new Non-Impact Vinyl Window SpectraGuard targeted for the R&R market launched in


March totaled 2.8 million. We continue to be pleased with the sales of our new vinyl product line


and expect this line to continue to provide geographic sales growth as we continue to focus on


increasing our distribution network in targeted states outside Florida.


Due to the success of our new vinyl products, in the third quarter of 2009 out-of-state sales were up


nearly 32%, compared to last year and nearly 7% compared to the second quarter of 2009. Out-of-


state sales represented $9.1 million are almost 22% of our $41.6 million of net sales during the third


quarter of 2009. This compares to just 13% last year and 18% last quarter. This growth is directly


related to the introduction of our new vinyl product line and our success in setting up new


distribution outside the state of Florida.