Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad West — Controller & Director-Finance, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — CFO, Treasurer, EVP & Head-Investor Relations, PGT, Inc.
Sam J. Darkatsh — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Steve L. Dyer — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Gunnar G. Hansen — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT Incorporated First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Brad West. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT's first quarter 2013 conference call. I'm Brad West, Corporate Controller and I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO and Jeff Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. Rod and Jeff will represent PGT on this morning's call.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies and industry trends. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, rather they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please refer to the May 1 press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.pgtindustries.com. Included in the press release are: the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed May 1 with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

For today's call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the first quarter ended March 30, 2013. Then Jeff will discuss our results in more detail. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions.

With that, let me turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger. Rod?

Thanks Brad. Good morning, everyone. During the first quarter of 2013, sales grew 30.1% to $49.6 million primarily driven by two factors; the first, sales increased in our repair and remodel markets 26% due to improving market conditions driven by macroeconomic factors such as lower unemployment, better access to credit, and improved housing prices as well as focused promotional programs targeting our WinGuard products which drove share during the quarter.

Second, new construction sales increased 42% driven by improved market conditions including an increase in Florida single-family housing starts of 50% during the quarter. Florida single-family housing starts are projected to grow at a compound annual growth rate in excess of 30% over the next three years, which will bring our core market close to its normalized 100,000 starts per year.

Impact sales grew 39% over the first quarter of 2012 and represented 77% of total sales compared to 72% a year ago. This growth was led by a 40% increase in our WinGuard product line which grew substantially in both the new construction and repair and remodel markets. The sales and marketing programs ran during the quarter were both dealer and consumer driven and focused on our WinGuard products which drove improved product mix. We also completed the sale of our Salisbury, North Carolina facility for $7.5 million, net of selling cost, resulting in a gain of $2.2 million. The proceeds of the sale were used to voluntarily prepay an additional $7.5 million worth of outstanding bank debt, bringing our gross debt to $30 million.

Net income from the quarter improved $5.3 million compared to a loss of $700,000 a year ago. The improved financial performance is the result of the hard work and dedication of our employees, including 159 new employees, who joined us during the first three months to satisfy the growing demand for our products and to deliver our value proposition.

Adjusted EBITDA which excludes the gain on Salisbury was $7.2 million or 14.5% of sales. This is $3.8 million or a 114.8% increase over the first quarter of 2012 EBITDA. Our gross margin was 35.4% compared to 31.3% for the first quarter of 2012. The increase of 4.1% in gross margin was driven by mix improvement and improved operating leverage, resulting from higher sales.

As our revenue grew, SG&A cost as a percent of sales declined from 30.7% in the first quarter of 2012 to 26.3%. In terms of dollars, SG&A costs grew $1.3 million, driven by an incremental investment in sales and marketing dollars of $1.2 million to further drive revenue within the quarter and into the remaining year.

Additionally, we had increased employee-related expenses of $400,000. These increases were offset by reduced warranty-related costs of $300,000, resulting from improved quality. Some highlights for the first quarter of 2013 include a significant improvement in our mix of WinGuard product sales, up 40% from the prior year. Gross margin percentage of 35.4%, up 410 basis points from 2012 gross margin.

Net income excluding the gain recorded on the Salisbury sale and related tax impact of $3.2 million or $0.06 per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA of $7.2 million, up $3.8 million or 114.8% versus prior year. I am thankful for the hard work of our employees both new and tenured who delivered on our value proposition which drove the positive financial results in the first quarter. I am also optimistic about the opportunities to leverage our sales and advertising campaigns which will drive brand awareness in this growing market.

With that, I will turn the call over to Jeff, who will review the results for the quarter in greater detail.

Thank you, Rod. Our WinGuard product sales increased 40% over prior year. And this is due in part to the improved market conditions in new construction and repair and remodeling markets as well as targeted sales and marketing programs ran during the quarter.

Our gross margin increased 47% driven by revenue growth, improved operating leverage from higher sales and improved product mix. SG&A increased over prior year primarily due to investing and selling activities and advertising campaigns which fueled our sales increase.

Our $7.2 million in adjusted EBITDA represented 14.5% of sales. Our quarter ending cash balance is $14.3 million and we voluntarily prepaid an additional $7.5 million of our outstanding bank debt during the quarter with the proceeds from the sale of the Salisbury facility bringing our gross debt to $30 million. Additionally, we repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock for approximately $6.1 million; this brings our total investment in our stock to $10 million adding 2 million shares of stock to our treasury.

As Rod mentioned and as many of you have learned from our earnings release, we reported net sales of $49.6 million for the first quarter of 2013, a 30.1% increase over prior year quarter. Looking at our results by product line for this first quarter compared to 2012's first quarter, we have WinGuard sales of $35.4 million versus $25.3 million, an increase of $10.1 million or 40%.

Sales of our vinyl, non-impact and other products sales were $6.3 million versus $5.6 million, up 12.6%. Sales of aluminum non-impact were $5.3 million versus $5.1 million, up 3% over prior year. Our PremierVue sales were $1.7 million versus $1.8 million during the quarter, essentially flat. And our Architectural Systems sales were $800,000 versus $300,000, an increase of approximately $500,000.

Gross margin for the first quarter of 2013 was 35.4% versus gross margin of 31.3% in the first quarter of 2012. Our increase in gross margin as a percent of sales of 1.4% was driven by leveraging increased sales of 390 basis points, improved product mix, mainly aluminum WinGuard adding 170 basis points.

Offsetting these increases is the impact of temporary inefficiencies in labor associated with hiring 159 new employees to meet the increase in demand during the quarter, which negatively impacted margins 150 basis points. Our average cost of aluminum was approximately $0.92 per pound during the first quarter compared to the first quarter of 2012's weighted average cost of approximately $0.98 per pound. During the first quarter of 2013, our cost of aluminum was comprised totally of spot purchases, as our aluminum hedges were not classified as expected for accounting purposes.

We did pay approximately $19,000 or $0.02 per pound which was reporting in other expense for the ineffective contract that settled in the quarter. As of today, we are hedged approximately 40% of our estimated needs through the third quarter of 2014 at an average of $0.92 per pound. The cash price as of today is $0.84 per pound.

Our selling general and administrative expenses were $13 million, an increase of $1.3 million from the first quarter of 2012. As a percent of sales SG&A declined from 30.7% in the first quarter to 26.3% during our current quarter. Highlights within SG&A include an increase of $700,000 selling activities and increase of $500,000 in marketing investments and an increase of $400,000 in employee related expenses. Offsetting these increases was a decrease in warranty related expense of $300,000.

During the first quarter of 2013 we recorded $400,000 of tax expense; our tax rate is 7.7% for the first three months ended March 30, 2013 as we released a portion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance to offset a portion of our regular tax expense. This rate is based on an estimated annual rate excluding the potential impact of discrete events such as the release a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. We do expect to release the remaining balance during 2013.

We had net income in the first quarter of $5.3 million or $0.09 per diluted share versus a net loss of $700,000 or $0.01 per diluted share in the first quarter of our prior year. The net income in the first quarter of 2013 includes a gain of $2.2 million related to the sale of Salisbury facility, excluding the gain on the sale and the related tax impact. Adjusted net income was $3.2 million or $0.06 per diluted share. Our current shares outstanding total approximately 52 million.

Adjusted EBITDA was $7.2 million for the first quarter of 2013 versus an EBITDA of $3.3 million for the first quarter of 2012. The increase in adjusted EBITDA of $3.8 million is due mainly to $5 million attributable to increased volume and $800,000 from improved product mix. Offsetting these two increases was the $700,000 impact of temporary inefficiencies resulting from our recent hiring and increased advertising and promotional activities of $1.2 million. A reconciliation of net income and EBITDA, which I've just discussed, has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

Now turning briefly to the balance sheet. As of March 30, 2013, our net working capital excluding cash was $20.4 million, an increase of $5 million. This increase is driven by an increase in our accounts receivable of $4.9 million. DSOs remain relatively flat at 32 days at the end of the first quarter compared to 33 days at the end of first quarter of 2012.

Our free cash flow for the quarter was $1.3 million mainly driven by EBITDA excluding non-cash items such as stock compensation of $1.7 million. We invested $5 million in cash for working capital, mainly accounts receivable. We paid $600,000 for capital additions and we had cash paid for interest of $800,000.

Over the course of the quarter, we experienced a 22% increase in sales in January compared to our prior year. This was followed by 33% increase in both February and March over prior year. The growth experienced during the quarter was a result of improved market conditions in our core markets as well as targeted sales promotional activity.

Our expectation is that with improved marketing conditions and our investment in promotions, television and radio advertising, we will see solid year-over-year growth in our second quarter. I'm pleased to report April finished 37% up in sales.

We have also hired an additional 125 employees since the beginning of the second quarter, bringing total employees hired for the year to 284. We are working hard to get these new employees up to speed, but do expect some continued inefficiencies in our second quarter. With the growth in sales experienced so far this year, we are now operating at approximately 60% capacity for our manufacturing lines.

We are however bumping against capacity within certain parts of our glass operations. We will utilize outside glass suppliers to fill any gaps and have already begun to consider and implement glass capacity expansion strategies. As you likely saw we filed an amendment to our registration statement with the SEC. it is important to note that the amendment clearly state the company is only registering shares currently owned by JLL, and any sale of these shares will increase our public flow and reduce the overhand of a majority owner. However, it will not have a dilutive effect, as no new shares will be issued.

With that, let me turn the call back over to Rod.

Thanks, Jeff. Our markets have shown substantial growth during the quarter and we are well positioned to capitalize and gain market share. The company is looking to build on our recent successes, and our leadership is implementing strategies, which are designed to growth PGT sales and market share. Our employees are committed to deliver on our value proposition and to succeed as part of the PGT family.

In conclusion, we are pleased with our recent performance, excited with our present opportunities, and certain the future will produce increased shareholder value.

With that, I'll conclude; and Jeff and I will be happy to answer your questions. Jamie, if you could get the first question please. [Operator Instructions]

The first question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James.

Good morning, Rod. Jeff, Brad, how are you?

Good morning, Sam.

Good morning.

Great. Good morning, Sam.

I would say congratulations. But that implies at the best is behind us, so I'll try and keep the congratulations to myself. But very nice quarter.

Thank you.

Thanks.

First and these are I guess high glass problems. The inefficiencies that you talked about due to the scarp and the labor costs and I guess you are also talking about having to add some glass capacity too. Where do you peg the duration of those inefficiencies going forward based on your current run rates and the typical learning curves that your labor force has and what have you – how should we think look at incremental gross margins and how long the inefficiencies might last?

Sam, typically based of our experience in hiring which you've hired a lot of people in the last two years with the consolidation, beginning with the consolidation of our North Carolina facility, it takes about six months for direct labor and are now employed really to get a speed and trained. We do take our time in doing that because obviously turnover is an issue. This is a tough job. It's a manufacturing environment on a hard floor and heavy product. But I'm also happy to report we have only about a 10% turnover ratio on that 280 we've hired so far.

So we are doing a good job of retention and also training, that's the biggest thing; just getting them in here, getting them used to the working conditions, the hours, building the product. And I would say, six months an average person, after about six months is up to speed and you will see those inefficiencies start to bleed back into the P&L and go away and come to bottom-line.

In terms of scrap, scrap is an ongoing battle in a sense because we're always looking at better ways to utilize our products as they come through the line. And that will kind of mirror that same timeframe although it could be shorter. People tend to learn how to cut quicker. It's a matter of putting it together and travel through the plant, et cetera; to get it loaded to a truck tends to take longer. So I would expect scrap to probably come down a little before you see that direct labor piece come down, but on average I'd say six months.

Six months from the initial hiring now and I'm guessing, you are still hiring though into Q2. So would it last longer than six months or will we really see that start to bleed off six months hence?

You'll see that in stages, so in other words in the first quarter, I believe it was $700,000 is roughly the impact on our margins. Obviously, all those people we hired in the first quarter, they are going to become more efficient during the second quarter, actually we're already starting to see that, some even in April as our throughput, our capacity increases have become efficient. We actually saw that in April. So you'll start to see some of that go away yet we are hiring like you had mentioned, we are hiring, we hired Monday. Rodney, you know how many we hired, roughly 20?

Right around 20 on Monday.

Right around 20 employees on Monday. We probably have open reqs Sam, about 100, that doesn't mean we're going to hire 100, but that's probably what we are looking at over the course of remaining year.

Okay. And then the 60% utilization I am guessing that's hard capacity. What would you have pegged your crew capacity at this point, how many shifts you're running and how many could you go if you had to go flat out?

We're running one full shift. We are staffing for our second shift, which is probably two-thirds of the way full. It depends upon which line, some lines are fully staffed, some aren't, but we're probably two-thirds the way on the second shift. No really third shift and I am talking for production capacity, actually the making of the window. On the glass side, we are running three shifts in our glass plant already and two full shifts with the skeleton third in our IGR insulating glass plant. So it depends on where you are at in the plant, but the main plant the 60% what I was referring to, we can still make up, add another shift. So we can still make a lot of product out in the plant. We would just be buying more glass from the outside until we expand that capacity.

And I guess that's the next obvious question is how do you break through that bottleneck on the glass side and what would that free up and what would the timing of that be?

Timings rough to say, Sam, because really – we did experience some of that in the first quarter in terms of having to buy it from the outside, it wasn't much, but it did hit the P&L, I'm going to put it peg about $300,000, Brad? $250,000?

Maybe around $200,000, $250,000.

Maybe around $200,000, $250,000 in terms of its impact in purchasing outside glass, but remember we don't walk away from a sale. Our job is to leverage fixed costs, so as long as we can get that sale and still make a decent margin, my WinGuard margins in the first quarter were 42.4% on average. So as long as I can still leverage that fixed cost, we're still going to get the sale even though we made be buying some glass from the outside, from our suppliers such as Cardinal, as an example.

In terms of actually expanding that capacity, that's a process we're currently going through, we've been looking at it for over a month now. I can't give you an exact timeline. There is basically two areas we're going to expand first, cutting, the actual cutting of the glass and the tempering of the glass. So those are the two areas we're going to buy machinery for into the future as we look to bring that in house.

But timing, lead times on those things, Rod, you know? Three months to six months?

Three to six months, it depends on how sophisticated you want to be and how high end you want to go, and then we have a place to put it.

Yeah. So there is different things going in terms of meetings and strategies to look at this and it's important to note that in the meantime, we're not walking away from any sale, we can always buy glass from the outside.

Yeah, we're one of the few companies that – few residential companies that actually does its own tempering – cutting, tempering and laminating. So it's – we're kind of unique when it comes to that standpoint. And you know our business pretty well, Sam, we're busier in the second quarter and third quarter usually than we are in the first and fourth. And so we're really hitting it in the second and third quarter is what we're looking at. So we'd be looking at making sure that we have that need covered just for margin sakes, not because we can't get the product, it's not that hard to get the product but for margin purposes.

Which leads me to my next question perfectly, you just mentioned you don't walk away from a sale. Have you considered raising prices a bit to alleviate some of the throughput pressures you have particularly on the glass side and eliminate some of these learning curve inefficiencies or are you concerned that maybe elasticity of demand or competitive response might not be a good idea?

We – we'll always look at pricing and consider raising pricing not for the reasons you gave. We'll remind everyone that we kind of came through five or six years of pretty tough times and the ability to gain market share is pretty important to us right now and not walking away from a sale. But we want to look at the pricing in the marketplace and the costs of the inputs and make sure that we're balancing what it costs us for product, what it costs us for labor, what is costs us for benefits, we can pass along. But from a manufacturing standpoint, there's plenty of capacity in the main plant, there is glass capacity, that's a little bit stretched, it's easy to buy. So we can bring that in. So we would not raise prices to control throughput, we would raise prices because it gives us better margins.

Yeah. And I think – we'd look at the competitor landscape obviously with share being most important for us right now because of our fixed cost structure, we make good margins. And if we look at the competitor's landscape, we are hearing of people raising prices, in particular, a couple of competitors we know about it in the 5% type price increased range. We hadn't had a major price increase in a long time. We've had spot price increases on certain products that for whatever reason were low margin, we wanted to bump up that margin or maybe there is some input costs that it changed on it or whatever.

So we've had some spot price increases here and there. But we haven't had across the board price increase in a long time. But we are hearing a lot of our competitors, are and actually a lot of the building product suppliers in general, whether it's lumber to dry wall. I mean a lot of that stuff is we're hearing pricing starting to come to bear. So that is something we always keep in our back pocket.

Last question, then I'll defer to others before I start to monopolize the call here. The R&R business up really nicely, went up high 20s percentage wise. I'm looking at the Florida existing home sales; I think that was up low double-digit maybe 10%, 12% or so in the quarter. That's encouraging to me at least, because it shows that your R&R business which tends to track home sales a bit on a lag is exceeding that. Do you anticipate your R&R business to continue to exceed the existing home sales data? I think it was the first time in a while that we've seen that development in your numbers.

Sam, I think a little bit of that is some pent-up demand, people that wanted to do some improvement. And that we look at it, maybe not driven as much by the sales as my home value is going up. Once the home values start rising and people feel like they have a little equity or will be creating some equity in their homes, I think that frees up the ability to do some improvement. The improvements that we offer homeowners is a little different than your typical home improvement because of codes and because of insurance. You put granite countertops in, you don't get an insurance break, you put impact windows in you get an insurance break. So we'll watch that pretty closely but we think home values will be more important necessarily than just the sales.

I will say, I will add to that, R&R in the quarter up roughly 26% for us year-over-year. I do – we do expect R&R sales to probably trend higher than the national kind of R&R percentages that are out there for that very reason. So we do expect a good R&R market here in Florida for us in the foreseeable future.

Being in the Florida market myself, your lips to God's ear, that would be terrific. Thank you very much gentlemen.

Thanks, Sam.

Thanks.

The next question comes from Steve Dyer from Craig-Hallum.

Thanks. Good morning. Congratulations, guys.

Thanks, Steve.

Thanks, Steve.

A lot obviously has been covered already. So I'll just I guess try to fill in the blanks. When you look at – when you look at all the moving pieces, so you just hired a bunch of people, and they will get gradually more efficient, you've got aluminum coming down in prices. You've got theoretically more revenue to spread over it. I mean safe to say you'd expect gross margins to tick up higher from here?

Yeah. I mean long term this year into next year when I say long term our target for gross margin is to definitely improve as we both become more efficient as mix continues to improve, as throughput continues to improve and we hold our fixed cost as tight as we can with the increasing sales. There will be a point in time and I don't know where that is, but where sales reaches a certain amount, we have to layer in some fixed cost. We'll do that cautiously, obviously with margins in mind as well as servicing our customer first, but I do expect our gross margins to improve. My long term target's closer to upper 30%s, I know we're at mid 30%s now but my long-term goal is upper 30%s.

Okay. And then I think you had said in the last quarter's call that you're going to layer in some incremental sales and marketing expense look liked about $1.2 million or so in the first quarter. Obviously seems to be paying dividends, are you planning to kind of hold it at that level, to grow it, maybe shrink it, how should we think about that overall number throughout the rest of the year?

Yeah, we're going to continue to opportunistically invest in that area, Steve, we're going to look at it and really it's – a lot's based on volume. I mean obviously the market turning around, we want to take – not just ride the market up, we want to take share in this turnaround. So it will be based on where we can most get the bang for the buck, so to speak. We will – but we will invest in the second quarter in promotional activity, maybe not to the same degree as you saw in the first quarter in terms of dollars, but there will be more investment. I don't have an exact number for you.

Yeah, we actually shifted a little bit, Steve. Typically we run some television and radio ads right before hurricane season kicks off in June. And this year we wanted to look at what happened if we did that earlier in the year, we tend to have a lot more second home owners down here at that time of the year and wanted to make sure we got the message out to them also, and that was pretty effective.

Okay. Sounds good. And then last question for me, any real changes you're seeing kind of in the first month of the quarter as it relates to mix. I know you gave the mix by product line in the first quarter, but so far in April anything that's dramatically different or sort of the same path?

No, no change in mix, kind of the same path in terms of mid to upper 70%s impact related sales.

Okay. Great. Thanks guys.

All right. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Gunnar Hansen from Sidoti.

Hi, guys. All of the questions have been answered here, but I guess just for clarification purposes, can you run me through what the year-over-year growth rates in the first quarter for both new construction and R&R markets are?

Sure. Hey, Gunnar. The new construction, we grew 42%, and then in R&R, it was 25.8%, so – I think I said 26%, but it was 25.8% for a total growth of 30.1% total sales growth.

Great. And I guess through April here, I mean how is that kind of end market mix shifted all are or how do you kind of see that developing going forward?

You know unfortunately I wish I could answer that, but unfortunately we don't really track that by months like I want to, like we're going to. It involves getting information from our dealers and suppliers and it takes a while as we close the quarter, we get that kind of information. So I don't have that April breakout for you.

No problem. And...

We will need some more to time...

Sure, sure. And just in terms of some of the added employees, just over 280 year-to-date. What does that kind of bring it to you at this point total wise?

About 1,200 in total.

And I think, you said potentially another 100 throughout the year.

We have 100 open reqs and that will depend on both the efficiencies and in terms of the current employees, I'd mentioned as we train them up, how fast that happens. As well as demand, if sales continues its current pace, we will definitely start looking at that third shift and things like that. So, yeah I'd say 100.

I would say immediate concerns, probably 50 to 60, maybe 70, and then by that time will have a chance to assess where we're at and see if we need to add an additional 30, 40 people.

Great. Thanks so much, guys.

Thanks, Gunnar.

I am showing no further questions. I would now like to turn the call back over to Jeff, for closing remarks.

Well. Thank you. Thanks for joining us today. And we look forward to speaking with you all again next quarter. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference for today. Again, thank you for your participation. You may all disconnect.