Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bradley R. West — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Truman Patterson — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Keith Hughes — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Philip Ng — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Nishu Sood — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Kenneth R. Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the PGT Innovations Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note, today's event is being recorded.

And I'd now like to turn the conference over to Brad West, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks, Rocco. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the call today. In addition to the news release, we have provided a slide presentation to accompany today's discussion. This webcast is being recorded and will be available for replay on Investors page of our website at pgtinnovations.com, along with the supporting slides.

Before we begin, I would like to direct your attention to the cautionary statements on slide 2, as well as the disclaimers included in the press release related to forward-looking statements. I will remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including the updated 2018 financial performance outlook.

These remarks involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in our earnings press release and in the risk factors included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, our most recent 10-Q as well as Form 8-K filings with the SEC. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.

On slide 3, you should also note that we report results using non-GAAP measures which we believe provide additional information for investors to help facilitate the comparison of past and present performance. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their GAAP counterparts is available on the Investor Relations section of our website. And lastly if we are unable to get your question today or you need additional follow-up, please give me a call at 941-480-2722.

I would not like to turn the conference over to Jeff Jackson. PGT Innovations' CEO and President. Jeff?

Thanks, Brad, and good morning, everyone. Before I comment on the quarter, I would like to say a few words about the latest hurricane that hit our state, Hurricane Michael. Turning to slide 4, last month on October 10, Hurricane Michael made landfall becoming the first Category 4 storm to hit Florida's Panhandle with wind speeds of 155 miles per hour. It was only one to two miles per hour short of becoming a Category 5 storm. Hurricane Michael's wrath did not stop in the Florida Panhandle or decimating entire towns, it maintained its major hurricane status as it passed through Florida into Georgia, becoming the first Category 3 storm to hit Georgia since 1898. The storm 's complete path stretched from Florida all the way to Maryland, placing some 30 million people under a hurricane or tropical storm watch or warning along the way.

PTG Innovations' immediate focus, as always, is on helping our communities affected by the storm. And I continue to be incredibly proud and humbled by the way in which our employees, customers and fellow Floridians come together during such catastrophic events. In Michael's immediate aftermath, PGT Innovation team members once again filled our trucks with much needed supplies such as generators, flashlights and water, and sent them into the Florida Panhandle.

Working closely with Homeland Security, dozens of our team members volunteered to distribute supplies after traveling into areas of devastation that had no hotels, electricity or even food easily available. Many of our customers opened up their businesses to allow our team members and others to have a makeshift command post. This is another example of how we make a stronger impact together and how PGT Innovations puts into actions one of core values, community.

Turning to slide 5. While some South Florida areas require homes to withstand wind speeds of 175 miles per hour, many of the communities in the Florida Panhandle have far few less stringent building codes. Sadly, the area for Hurricane Michael hit the hardest, had little to no protection because current building codes in that part of Florida only require opening protection one mile from the coast.

In the aftermath of Hurricane Michael, as local state and federal officials assessed the damage, a consensus is emerging that building codes along Florida's Panhandle need to be held to a higher standard. Not only do we agree but we are committed to doing our part to ensure communities in hurricane-prone regions are aware of their options and help them be better prepared for the next big storm.

We are proud to be part of the team of experts that was on the ground to assess this damage. As a 15-year resident of Florida, I'm troubled by how catastrophic the impact of the storm has been. As a community, we can do a better job protecting our citizens through improving our building codes and the areas of coverage and also improving construction material and methods.

Now turning to slide 6. I would like to take a few minutes to review our strategies for creating long-term shareholder value for our customers and shareholders. The third quarter of 2018 was the start of an exciting chapter for PGT Innovations. With the acquisition of Western Window Systems, we have positioned PGT Innovations as a national leader in the premium window and door space.

The addition of Western Window Systems' geographic footprint supports our strategic vision of expanding outside of Florida, with niche products that allow us to strengthen our margin profile. Western Window Systems shares our commitment to developing strong brands and innovative products and our continuous improvement culture.

At PGT Innovations, we attribute our success to our focus on the continued execution of our core strategic pillars shown on slide 6. Our first pillar is focused on our customers with strong brands. AT PGT Innovations we put the customer at the center of our business, delivering 360-degree service before, during and after the sale. By focusing on our customers we have earned deep customer loyalty which we believe will continue to drive growth as we expand our footprint.

Second, we are focused on attracting talented, hardworking leaders and offering benefits to help our team members succeed. We believe that a talented, dedicated team of employees is key to success and we strive to make our company the best place to have a career. In July 2018, we made everyone at PGT Innovations company shareholder for the first time in the company's history. Earlier in 2018, we opened a childcare facility at our headquarters offering affordable, convenient care for our team members. These two strong examples of our focus on improving the lives of our team members serve so well in aligning with our culture of continuing to develop our employee base.

In addition, Western Window Systems was recognized as one of the best places to work in Inc. Magazine's June 2018 issue, which is evidence of its commitment to this shared culture. Third, we are committed to investing in our business and scaling our operations to meet increasing demand. PGT Innovations is differentiated from our competitors with our high quality, innovative impact-resistant products which meet and even surpass Florida's building codes.

And the premium energy efficient products of our Western Window Systems division are designed to unify indoor and outdoor living spaces and increased regulations and the ever-increasing demand for energy efficiency.

Our products, compliant with strict, impact-resistant building codes in Florida and the energy codes and regulations in many Western markets in North America, serve as a key differentiator in our targeted markets.

And fourth, we strategically allocate capital generated from our strong free cash flow to support our growth. We view the investment of free cash flow into acquisitions and growth projects as core to driving shareholder value. These pillars include investing in businesses to support strong organic growth as well as making more strategic acquisitions like Western Window Systems when the right opportunity presents itself.

With the Western Window Systems acquisition, we successfully entered the bond market for the first time, achieving access to capital at an attractive fixed rate. Following the acquisition, we executed a successful equity offering which allowed us to more quickly de-lever our balance sheet, thereby providing us with more flexibility in operational and strategic initiatives going forward. We believe our execution of these transactions in the third quarter has put PGT Innovations in a strong position and well poised to continued growth.

Now, I'd like to move through a discussion of our results for the quarter. Beginning on slide 7, I'm excited to report another quarter of strong financial results reflecting growth in the demand for our products across all our markets. For the quarter, we delivered sales of $199 million, which was a 57% increase over the third quarter of 2017.

Sales in the repair and remodeling channel was the biggest driver in our top line for our legacy PGTI business. We're up 56% versus the same period last year. We continue to grow the repair and remodeling by capitalizing on increased demand in impact-resistant products following last year's active hurricane season and strategically invest in advertising and marketing to drive sales.

Sales into the new construction channel for our legacy PGTI business grew 22% over the prior year quarter. Also a factor in the higher level of sales for the third quarter 2018 compared to the same quarter last year is the impact of Hurricane Irma in 2017, which caused approximately $13 million in sales to shift from the third to the fourth quarter of 2017 due to business interruption.

Looking at adjusted earnings per share for the quarter, we reported $0.38 for the third quarter of 2018 versus $0.16 in the same quarter last year, a 138% increase. Solid operating performance has continued through the third quarter as we gained – as we again demonstrated our ability to leverage a significant increase in sales across our fixed cost base.

Last quarter represented the first time in the company's history we achieved adjusted EBITDA margins of 20% and we have done it again in the third quarter. The most significant news of the quarter of course is our closing of the acquisition of Western Window Systems in August. PGT Innovations is focused on developing industry-leading products, operating with discipline and putting the customer first. Western Window Systems clearly fits that bill.

We are especially excited about the growth opportunity that Western Window Systems provides. This marks a new chapter and a significant milestone for our company, as we become a national leader in the premium window and door space.

Turning to slide 8, I would like to review the strategic fit between our newly combined businesses. We are currently about four years into our strategy to become the national leader of premium windows and doors. Our first phase was to solidify our position in our core market of Florida by focusing on that market and meeting the needs of our customers with new products.

Additionally, we acquired the second and third strongest brands in the impact product space in 2014 and 2016, respectively, and did all this while maintaining industry-leading margins. The next phase of our strategy was and is the expansion into new geographies and other niche window and door products. The addition of Western Window Systems and their products that satisfy some of the most stringent energy codes and regulations in North America and serve a growing contemporary indoor/outdoor living segment in the States, across the country, does exactly that.

We believe Western Window Systems has and will continue to achieve better-than-market sales growth by adding builders who desired products that Western offers, and we believe they have and will continue to achieve industry-leading margins by focusing on high-end, niche, energy-efficient windows and doors whilst driving for continuous operational improvements.

Although we are still in the early stages, the integration of our companies is on track. We continue to expect annual cost synergies of $8 million to $12 million, primarily from the integration of our supply chain where we can benefit from our larger scale. Additionally, we see exciting cross-selling opportunities and expect to continue to strengthen brand recognition and leadership, an important aspect of our growth strategy.

For the third quarter of 2018, Western Window Systems performed as expected, resulting in meaningful gross margin and adjusted EBITDA margin accretion for PGT Innovations. We believe we are on track to meet our margin improvement target of 150 to 200 basis points, pending brand mix as cost synergies begin to be realized.

On December 4, we will host our first Investor Meeting, along with a site tour of Western Window Systems' headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. I will be making a presentation, along with Scott Gates, our Senior Vice President of PGT Innovations and President of Western Window Systems.

The presentation will be simultaneously webcast on our website at www.pgtinnovations.com. We will then have an opportunity for investors and analysts to take a tour of our state-of-the-art facility to see firsthand our manufacturing processes, along with the strong culture that has driven aggressive growth and meet some key leaders. Stay tuned for more information in the coming weeks.

Turning to slide 9. As we look ahead, a key driver of our continued growth includes Florida's position as the fastest growing state in the nation, now surpassing 21 million people. And we believe there's significant new construction build potential remaining. In Florida, we are estimating the 2018 housing starts to be approximately 95,000, whereas normalized single family housing starts is approximately 125,000 per year. We also expect to see continued growth in the repair and remodeling channel. Following an active hurricane season over the last few years, we have seen increased demand among Florida customers for impact-resistant products that can withstand tougher weather conditions.

On slide 10, the niche markets we serve, historically and we expect to continue into the future, have grown faster than the regular window and door market. To provide evidence, it is estimated that 18% of Florida homes have impact-resistant windows, 13% have impact-resistant doors and another 18% have storm shutters. This indicates that at least 50% of Floridians have no protection on openings of their homes to safeguard their property against severe storms. Hurricane Michael and Irma demonstrated that every home in Florida not just coastal homes can be impacted by severe weather.

As a result, homeowners throughout the entire state of Florida have begun searching for hurricane protection for their homes, which is why we believe our advertising and marketing investments continue to benefit our growth. As a result of strong demand, we ended the quarter with a sales pipeline of $104 million, including Western Window Systems versus $51 million at the end of the third quarter last year. And we accomplished this while maintaining lead times that allow us to serve our customers' needs in a timely manner.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Brad to discuss the financial results in more detail. Brad?

Thank you, Jeff. First, I would like to review some of our recent significant achievements summarized on slide 11 and then discuss third quarter results in more detail. In addition to the strategic benefits of the acquisition of Western Window Systems outlined by Jeff, we have been able to make other significant accomplishments in coordination with the transaction. [indiscernible]

(00:18:32) transaction, for the first time in our history, we entered the bond markets raising $315 million at an attractive fixed rate of 6.75%. In September, we completed a stock offering, the proceeds of which allowed us to pay down $152 million of our term loan credit facility to further strengthen our balance sheet.

At the consummation of the acquisition, our gross leverage ratio was approximately 4 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA, inclusive of $8 million in annual cost synergies. At the end of the third quarter, our gross leverage ratio has improved to 2.6 times, and over 80% of our remaining leverage is at a fixed rate of 6.75% in an environment of raising rates.

Another positive result of our debt paydown was that we received a ratings upgrade from Moody's to B1. Additionally, we had a B+ rating from Standard & Poor's with a positive outlook. We believe our access to long-term borrowing at an attractive rate, together with the completion of an acquisition that provides us with geographical and product line diversity and other benefits, has put PGT Innovations into strong financial and operational position well poised for continued growth.

Now, moving on to slide 12 for a summary of our results for the third quarter. We reported net sales of $199 million, an increase of 57% compared to the prior year quarter, owing to a number of the positive factors previously mentioned by Jeff including a 56% increase in our repair and modeling segment and inclusion of $18.7 million in sales from the recent acquisition of Western Window Systems.

For the third quarter of 2018, our gross profit was $73.0 million, up $33.3 million versus the third quarter 2017 and our gross margin increased to 36.7% of sales, a 5.4 percentage point increase from the prior year quarter. The inclusion of Western Window Systems in our third quarter results provided a meaningful gross margin improvement of approximately 1.7 percentage points.

Also, we continue to see gross margin improvement in our legacy business from higher volumes, improved operating effectiveness and a favorable mix of sales. Gross margins also benefited from price increases that took effect during the second quarter of 2018. Offsetting these benefits were inflationary factors including an increase in the price of aluminum and increases in labor and fuel costs.

After considering the effects of our aluminum coverage program, the increase in aluminum prices had a negative impact of 1.1% on the gross margin in the third quarter of 2018. As of today, we have contracted for approximately 65% of our estimated aluminum needs for the remainder of 2018 at an average delivered price of $1.17 per pound, which compared to $1.05 per pound in 2017. Additionally, we are covered for approximately 55% for just the LME portion of the total cost at an average price of $0.98 per pound in 2019. Please note that this does not include the delivery costs, which today is approximately $0.19 per pound. Going forward, we will continue to monitor the price of aluminum and the tariff and trade environment and as appropriate, increase our coverage or make additional prudent increases in the price of our products. We are pleased to have expanded margins by 5.4 percentage points in the third quarter 2018 despite inflationary pressures, and we believe we are positioned to further strengthen our margin profile looking ahead.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $44.1 million in the third quarter 2018, an increase of $19.1 million from $25.0 million in the third quarter 2017. SG&A in the third quarter of 2018 includes $2.8 million related to our recent acquisition. And in the third quarter of 2017 includes $0.7 million in higher costs related to Hurricane Irma.

Adjusting for these costs, SG&A was $41.3 million in the third quarter 2018 or 20.7% of net sales compared to $24.2 million in the third quarter 2017 or 19.1% of net sales, an increase of 1.6%. the adjusted increase in SG&A is primarily the result of the inclusion of the SG&A expenses of Western Window Systems in the third quarter 2018 since the acquisition, which totaled $6.9 million including $1.1 million in non-cash amortization of their amortized or intangible assets. This represents approximately 37% of the total sales contribution of Western Window Systems of $18.7 million in the third quarter 2018. Excluding these items, SG&A of the legacy business grew $10.2 million but remained level as a percentage of sales at approximately 19%.

This increase in legacy SG&A spending is mainly the result of the higher level of sales, but also includes higher personnel-related costs of approximately $3.2 million, including higher incentive compensation reflecting the improved performance in the third quarter 2018 compared to last year; an increase of $1.1 million due to our strategic investments in additional marketing and advertising initiatives during 2018; as well as an increase in stock-based compensation expense of $800,000.

Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter 2018 was $39.8 million or a margin of 20.0% compared to adjusted EBITDA of $22.2 million or a margin of 17.5% for the third quarter of 2017. As with our gross profit and gross margin, adjusted income and adjusted EBITDA benefited from higher sales and improved operating performance as well as the inclusion of Western Window Systems, which benefited EBITDA margin by 40 basis points.

Interest expense for the third quarter was $11.7 million, an increase of $6.3 million versus last year. The current quarter interest expense includes a $5.3 million non-cash charge related to the write-off of deferred financing costs as a result of the $152 million prepayment made on our existing credit facility during the quarter.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $6.4 million in the third quarter 2018, an increase of $1.3 million versus the prior year period, driven mainly by the acquisition of Western Window Systems. Taxes for the quarter were $3.3 million, a $0.3 million increase versus the prior year quarter. Our third quarter tax rate was 20% versus a tax rate of 32% in the third quarter 2017 with the decrease mainly driven by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.

In addition, tax expense in the third quarter of 2018 was reduced by $1.0 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises. We recorded GAAP net income of $13.6 million or $0.26 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2018 versus $6.3 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2017, representing a 117% year-over-year increase. Net of excluded one-time items, adjusted earnings per diluted share for the quarter were $0.38 versus $0.16 in the same quarter of last year representing a 138% increase.

On slide 13, looking ahead to the next full quarter, post acquisition, I will give some expectations regarding combined company assumptions going forward for interest, taxes, depreciation/amortization and capital expenditures. We expect interest expense to be approximately $7 million per quarter. We expect the go-forward tax rate to be around 26%. We expect depreciation and amortization expense to be approximately $9 million per quarter, and we expect that CapEx will average 3% to 4% of annual sales. After the issuance of the additional shares and the equity offering we recently completed, we estimate that for the fourth quarter, the number of diluted shares will be approximately 59.3 million.

And finally, I would like to review the 2018 guidance that we updated this morning to reflect increased product demand as well as the addition of Western Window Systems sales for the post acquisition period beginning on August 13, 2018. PGT Innovations now expects to finish in the following ranges: Net sales of $675 million to $685 million, an increase of 32% to 34% compared to 2017; adjusted EBITDA of $123 million to $128 million, an increase of 46% to 52% as compared to 2017; net income per diluted share of $1.13 to $1.19; and lastly free cash flow of $75 million to $80 million.

With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Jeff for some closing comments. Jeff?

Thank you, Bradley. In closing I'd like to remind you of the five elements of our investment thesis, on slide 14. We are national leader in growing premium indoor and outdoor window and door category. We're committed to continue to invest in talent and R&D to remain an industry leader in innovation and product development. We have a continuous focus on operational efficiencies to drive additional margin expansion. We are focused on striving to achieve strong execution of our strategy to create long-term customer and shareholder value.

And finally, we are well positioned with a diversified strong product portfolio and diversified geographic markets to capture profitable growth in both new construction and the repair and remodeling channels. 2018 has and continues to be a milestone year for PGT Innovations. It is an exciting time to be a part of our family of brands and an investor in PGT Innovations as we continue to drive shareholder value.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call back over to the operator to begin Q&A. Rocco?

Yes, sir. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Today's first question comes from Truman Patterson of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, guys. Congrats on the good quarter. I take it you guys are having a pretty good morning.

Yeah. Thank you, Truman, and thank you for joining us and picking us up today. We certainly appreciate the support.

Yeah, yeah. So, first question, just wanted to touch on the recent repair and remodel strength that's really been driven by the 2017 Hurricane Irma and the Floridian awareness factor, if you will. How sustainable is this repair and remodel performance through 2019? And I'm kind of thinking the roofing industry has seen a hangover start to occur in really more near term in the aftermath of this year's Hurricane Florence and Michael. Are there any near term items you can give us how that's impacting demand recently?

Yeah, I think we're a little bit different from, say, like a roofing industry where the demand initially is probably more repair related, because quite frankly you can't build a roof that can withstand that kind of strength and you're always going to lose some tile somewhere, so you see initial demand in repair whereas in the window and door category, you don't really see a lot of like initial repair-type demand.

What we're seeing and continue to see in Florida, as I've mentioned in my comments, look, half the state – half the population of the state, the homes in the state have no impact protection. And as Hurricane Michael actually demonstrated this year, you can be in an area that's normally not prone to hit by hurricane and a hurricane happens and it's devastating. So we see a little buzz, opportunity for R&R to continue over the next couple of years.

You got to remember also, as I mentioned, Florida now has over 21 million people in the state, and we're still adding folks daily. So we think the climate here – the business climate, obviously the weather, the retirees coming down, the baby boomer generation population coming into this area and the drive to improve homes and make them hurricane-efficient, if you will, architected, is going to continue into 2019, into 2020. So we see good strength in the R&R market here in Florida.

Okay. Okay. Thanks for that, guys. Jumping over to your guidance, if I take the high range of your 2018 revenue and EBITDA dollar guidance, it looks like your fourth quarter EBITDA margin should decline we'll call it 120, 130 bps from extremely – an extremely high 20% level on the second and third quarter. Are there any near term items that we need to be thinking about that would cause this sequential decline? I'm thinking near-term hurricane disruptions or anything along those lines.

Yeah. Truman, nothing specific to the hurricane, but it was actually a pretty typical pattern for us. Our R&R business cycles tend to be stronger in Q2 and Q3, and then in Q1 and Q4 sales tend to be a little bit lower, so we're somewhat cyclical.

So it really just comes down to leverage on what we anticipate will be lower sales in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter, but no disruptions related to the hurricanes or nothing what I would consider outside of the normal course of business.

And the mix impact of R&R. R&R business is generally more profitable so with R&R being down in those quarters. Again you also got to look at the population of Florida. In the fourth and first quarters we have a lot of folks come down to spend their winter months here. And typically they don't want to be disrupted. They do their repair and remodeling when we go back up north. And so around Thanksgiving, Christmas, fourth quarter really slows down from an R&R standpoint and the beginning of the year. It picks back up some at the end of the first quarter but it really then kick back into the second quarter. So that's what you'll see, a little bit of leverage loss from mix and obviously leverage on a little lesser sale base.

Okay. Thank you, guys. Good luck in 4Q.

Thank you, Truman.

Thank you, Truman.

And our next question comes from Jeremy Hamblin of Dougherty & Co. Please go ahead.

Thanks, guys. I'll add my congratulations on the impressive results.

Thanks, Jeremy.

I wanted to start with just could you give us a sense from kind of all the tariff news and what kind of impact you are seeing as it relates to the business today and kind of moving forward?

Yeah. It has been an interesting year, Jeremy, as it relates to tariffs because if you ever think you've got it figured out or you think you know what's going to happen next is kind of always something to surprise you. So there's been more recent talks about tariffs again and we had some inflation that we saw in the first half of the year. We came out with a price increase over the summer designed to address that fact and now there's more recent tariffs even announced more recently than that.

And just doing the quick math off the top, I think next year could have an impact on our commodities to where it might be as much as 50 bps of sales at these levels. And we still always look at coverage and pricing, so what its actual impact will be, we'll have to wait and see. But it's something that we have to be mindful of and I do think it could impact us going into 2019. So like I said, right now, could be much as 50 bps.

Understood and then just as a follow up on that point, you've had – a lot of your competitors have actually moved to raise prices. I think one of your or maybe your largest competitor in Florida just raised prices two weeks ago to account I think at least for some of the tariff impact. Most of them have raised prices twice this year. Where do you guys stand in terms of thinking about that now that you've seen a lot of your competitors go even a little more aggressively than you have?

Yeah, Jeremy, we've raised price at the beginning of the year. Like Bradley mentioned, we just took a price increase this quarter – at the end of this quarter. We should get the benefit of that here in the fourth quarter. But it's always a tool we have in the toolbox to go to. We do obviously look at that in terms of all our input cost, our ability to hedge those costs and also that leverage to the fixed cost base in terms of return on the sales volume potentially impacting our price increase. So all that taken into account, we could do the same. It's definitely there to do and we will kind of gauge that as we move to – as it approaches into 2019.

Okay, great. And then just last question is regarding the guidance. And just as I think about the huge change here in guidance, could you give me a sense of the split of how much of that increase in your guidance on the sales front is really driven by Western Windows maybe performing better than you expected versus the organic or the legacy PGT business lines?

Brad maybe can share more detail. But I can tell you that the Western Window Systems is performing better than our what I would call our acquisition model. But PGT is really coming from PGT innovation across our brands, where the legacy business is performing incredibly well right now.

Yeah. I think Jeff nailed it on the head. I wouldn't have to add anything to that.

Okay. Great. Thanks so much for taking the questions, guys. Good luck.

Thank you.

Thank you, Jeremy.

And today's next question comes from Keith Hughes of SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Very helpful slides you have on the Panhandle and the code requirements there. How long do you think...

Thank you.

...it'll take before you get some rebuilding going on there? And – I mean obviously things closer to the coast you have a chance for business. Maybe the bigger question is that just slightly inland from the coast, when could we see business from that?

Keith, I'll be honest with you. I went – I'm going to go back to Hurricane Irma in the Keys. I went down there this past summer, I went down the end of August, and there was still devastation in the Keys, what, almost a year later. I was there in August. The hurricane had hit in September 2017. So a year later, there's still cleanup going, there's still some canals that had boats on them. So I think it takes a while for that cleanup to occur. The aerial photos seen and the reports I've gotten back from the teams on the ground from PGT, the devastation has been horrible. It's just been – it's almost like a bomb has went off on some of these locations and places. So, I think the cleanup there is going to take even longer, because it involved a much denser kind forest, population of trees. All of that is much bigger land mass that got hit than just going across, say the Florida Keys or hitting Marco Island like Hurricane Irma did. So, you have a lot of cleanup to do.

I think we'll potentially start seeing some increase in sales associated with that I'd say at best back half of 2019. In terms of that area. Now awareness across the State of Florida has peaked because of it. So I think we get immediate benefit from people seeing yet another hurricane hit Florida and they may have a home somewhere on the East Coast and don't have an impact protection or – and they're looking at that and they're saying, let's go ahead and do it. So, we get some benefit immediately. But from the affected area, it's 12 months out before you really get any kind of benefit or any kind of sales into that area.

Right. And within the revenue guidance, of course, there's an interpolated fourth quarter range. What kind of organic growth do you expect to see in the fourth quarter? And if you could talk about dollars and units how those would differ in the fourth quarter?

Once second. I'm going to just get that number calculated for you there, Keith.

Yeah.

So, as we mentioned before, we had a $13 million transfer of sale from Q3 to Q4 last year. So – as it relates to the organic growth, I think you're going to see a little bit of this tough comp-tempered growth rate call it in the guidance is probably something in the range of high-single digits because of the $13 million move.

Like Jeff mentioned before, the Western business is pretty much a little bit ahead of what we expected, but for the most part, most of that increase in the guidance is based upon PGT's performance. But just remember that last year we had that $13 million comp that we're building up against.

Right. So you're saying high-single-digit growth year-over-year in the fourth in the – implied in the guidance? Is that correct?

Yes.

Okay. And then...

Yes.

...mixture of units and price or more units or what do you [indiscernible] (00:42:12) ...

No, right now, it's – probably call it 3 percentage points of that is price and the rest would be units.

This is coming off like a 22% or 23% comp. Is that correct?

Yes.

Okay. That's fantastic, by the way. And then I guess final question on aluminum. Aluminum prices on the big indices have been trading – trending down for most of 2018. Sometimes the spot margins can be a little different. From where we stand right now, is aluminum in 2019 from the current prices, is that – that's going to turn into a tailwind for you some point, will it not?

I think it would in the back half of the year because – and this is a function of our coverage, right, because we had coverage in place from 2017 that affected 2018 that offset some of the immediate increases on the cash and market price. But if you look at the prices that we are hedged for the back half of this year and going into next year, I think right now, continuing to be a little bit of a headwind, not to the same degrees it was in the most recent quarter, because that was going up a relatively easy comp, but if it stays at where's it's at right now, could potentially become a little bit of a tailwind as you get towards the back half of next year.

But I would say that remember the aluminum price had the – the LME has retreated some this year. But the Midwest premium, which is more of a function of kind of like the tariff, I think, is still at its higher – high point and that is being compared to where it was this time a years ago, was up $0.10. And that's why it's happened in March. So we'll be fighting that kind of comp all the way through until well past that first quarter of next year. So that's why I don't think the tailwind might seem as dramatic. We've got that Midwest premium offsetting the good bet.

The LME is different. The LME that's the answer. Okay. Thank you.

Yes.

And our next question today comes from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Good morning. This is [ph] Josh (00:44:29) filling in for Sam. Thanks for taking my questions and congratulations on the quarter.

Thanks, Josh.

Thanks, Josh.

First, a clarifying question on the fourth quarter guidance. You said there's no hurricane impact on the margins. Is there any shift in the timing of sales related to Michael?

No, minor.

Yeah.

I mean, yes, but it's minor.

Yeah, ineligible.

Minor, okay. And then regarding the third quarter, what were the primary variances versus your plan?

Well, I guess I would say the easiest answer to that is this year, behind our result from Hurricane Irma that was the first storm that hit Florida since Jeff and I have been here. So we were thinking about what the impact was going to be on the state. It thus far exceeded our expectations, and we then put some advertising and marketing in there to capitalize it and even drove it off further. So I guess really by far, the biggest impact on our results versus our expectation this year has just been the strength of the R&R market obviously to our pleasant surprise.

And then I'll just add to that. Again, we didn't have another major hurricane hit a major market. The Keys is a major market for us and Marco Island and Naples, we've got a majority of the windows in those markets. So that was a major disruption for the company. And then to have the power outages at the plants, we just have a lot of stuff going on in the third quarter.

As we were giving guidance – third quarter 2017 – as we were looking into 2018, we tried to kind of account for it, quite frankly, if this happens again, what would we do, in terms of results. And now that we're kind of almost through hurricane season, it looks like we're going to be okay and it looks like what we thought we could do, we're actually going to do better as a result.

Is there anything to call out in the monthly trends in the quarter particularly as it relates to organic growth?

Obviously, just at September last year as well was affected by Irma, so is a month when our biggest peak was in September. But again, that was typical Irma expectation. So it – absent that Irma effect, it was a pretty consistent trend through the three months.

Got it. Good luck with the next quarter and thanks for your work on the recovery efforts.

Thank you.

Thank you, Josh.

And on our next question today comes from Phil Ng of Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. You obviously delivered some explosive organic growth last few quarters. But as you kind of pointed out, comps do get a little tougher. Curious if you could give us any color on how backlogs are shaping up and how you're thinking about organic growth next year? Could Michael have a similar impact in terms of awareness? And any color on how we should think about sizing that up would be helpful.

Yeah. I'll give you some thoughts just as we look into next year. Obviously, we're doing our budgeting process now and putting the final touches on that. But we – some headwinds, for instance, we're considering. I mean, obviously we live in an environment of rising interest rate, so we're having to take that into account. We've got some input costs that we've already discussed already in the call in terms of tariff-related input cost and even wages – wage pressure at times.

We're considering all those kind of input costs, if you will. But we're going to have some good tailwinds. I'll be honest with you. R&R market, I think, is positioned nicely for growth as a result of – in part in Florida because of all the hurricane activity. Hurricane Michael, I think does drive awareness, does drive people to change throughout the State of Florida. And I think even Hurricane Florence, the hurricane that came into the Carolina area, that market we've experienced increased demand in orders and awareness. So, we will continue to benefit with that in terms of the tailwind.

And, look, on price appreciation, homes are going up in value 6% year-over-year. So that always bodes well for the R&R market also. So if you take that into account, I think what we have happening and basically you were growing – our job base and the economy is growing faster than the housing market can support it. So, I think that bodes well for new construction also. Now, can it temper all sum because of interest rates, I think the answer is, yes, it could on the construction side. But we still think, especially here in Florida, that we got some good runway to go on the new construction area as well. We're considering all of those things as we're looking into 2019 and trying to pull together what we think R&R and new construction is going to be.

Do you have anything? Do you want to add, Brad?

No, I think that's good. Phil, thank you also for picking up coverage on us, and welcome to the team here. I think ultimately when you get right down to it we are still a company whose products gain penetration beyond just what the market supports, right? And we showed on that one slide how there's all kinds of opportunities for us to continue to do that.

And so, from our perspective, you have some fluctuating market macro situation that has changed kind of the face of that work. But then we always tend to be able to penetrate beyond that. So we always feel good about our position, and that's kind of how we think about our strategy with niche products to continue to do that. So I think that's what I'd add to that.

Hey, Brad, any color on backlogs? I mean, in the past, you've given some color on how that's progressing quarter-to-quarter.

The third quarter's backlog finished down just a little bit from the second quarter, but that's normal because the second quarter's backlog is supporting the third quarter, and the third quarter starts to begin to deal with people coming in as you start to get to Thanksgiving and I think Christmas kind of time, a very strong backlog, as we mentioned in the script, it's little over $100 million to support our fourth quarter and our guidance.

Okay. And, Jeff, is there an expectation in Florida potentially expanding the building codes to areas previously not, like Panhandle, for example, in light of some of the recent hurricanes and potentially talks in some other markets like a Carolina?

Yeah, I think there is. I know – as I mentioned in some of my comments, we were a part of a team that is on the ground assessing damage in conjunction with University of Florida and several other organizations. And so as we're doing that, we will get that information to the Florida Building Commission, quite frankly, who kind of somewhat sets or pushes for code changes and approves those changes.

And hopefully, they will use the information we give to. In my opinion, we need to definitely strengthen the codes around the Panhandle as we witnessed and look to both strengthening and coverage – coverage area. I think you'll see both those happen over the next say 12 months.

Like anything, it's a state-ran thing, so it can take time versus something new the next day if it was up to me. But I think that process is ongoing, and I think will ultimately get tougher and hopefully help people build better homes.

Got it. That's really helpful. And last one from me. It sounds like the integration of Western Window is coming on very nicely. Can you give us some color on the progress you're making or how quickly should we expect some of these cross-selling efforts to really kind of flow through particularly on the R&R side of things and the cadence of the $8 million to $12 million synergy realization over the course of 2019? Thanks a lot.

Yeah, I'll touch in general about progress. We've begun an integration team comprised of both PGT legacy folks as well as Scott and some of his team members and they're meeting literally weekly and there's various committees off that team that are driving different initiatives. I think progress is going well on the cost savings side. The last shot I saw out of the $8 million to $12 million, we were up just north of $7 million if I recall, Brad, in terms of actually in savings.

Yeah.

And with two more areas just to go, So all that's going as planned if not ahead of plan. And we've come out with an organizational structure. We're going to start looking at a regional base like a Southeast in Florida as a region, and the West in general as a region. So there's lots of different activities happening within the sales organization and channels to drive, I would say, cross-pollination of brands and channels, all that's going well.

And as I've mentioned also in my comments, we're going to have our first Analyst Day and we chose to have it at Western just to give the investors and analysts a feel for what we did go in and acquire and is now part of PGT Innovations and why we did it and where we're going to take it. So I'm looking very much forward to December 4 to hopefully see some of you guys at Western location.

Thanks a lot.

Thanks, Phil.

And our next question today comes from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Yeah. This is Nishu Sood from Deusche Bank. So first question on – even if I factor out the disruption to the sales, the deferral I think the $13 million in 3Q 2017, it looks like there is still some acceleration in the organic pace of sales. Impact sales might have accelerated from the kind of mid 20s to low 30s. Remodeling looks like it accelerated as well if I factor that out. Am I doing that math correctly? Did you see an acceleration in the pace of organic sales even taking that into account, the shift last year?

Yes, we did, Nishu, and I think there's a couple of drivers on that. The first one is that we had a very strong demand cycle through the entire quarter. But legacy PGTI was able to increase their production and increase their daily output, which allowed us to start to short some of the lead times that had gotten a little extended during the quarter. So I think the demand remained relatively consistent to the quarter and strong, but our actual ability to ship probably improved in the third quarter because we increased our capacity.

Yeah.

Got it. Got it. Okay. And obviously the impact-resistant Florida remodeling market is going gangbusters. I'm sure you're aware that there's pretty significant concerns about the new housing market, particularly on the West Coast. Any insights you can give us into your kind of early-stage – early construction-stage indicators? Obviously, a window goes in kind of partway through the construction process. But any kind of early discussions or orders or anything you're seeing there that can tell us about the state of demand for out West?

Again, out West, similar to Florida, I think labor is probably the biggest constraint affecting demand, and we view that as almost a governor on that demand not letting it get too much out of control. But I think rising interest rates are also going to play a factor.

But that's one we are pushing – push for to develop an R&R business with the Western brand because if you think even in rising interest rates what that'll do is it'll force people to stay in homes longer. But and if they're in homes longer, they will tend to fix those homes up. So that's a good thing for the R&R market. So we are actively trying to develop that R&R presence in California, for instance, one of our top markets for Western Window Systems. But no we – they basically serve – they own a product that [indiscernible] (00:57:11 product. It's actually penetrating into a market. And so even if the – let's say, the housing numbers start going down, Western is penetrating still into that market with a new product and taking share. So what you will see – what we have seen is in a declining market, we could still grow Western Window Systems because of their sheer penetration and going into new geographic areas.

Got it. Got it. Final one from me. I know obviously the new facility just this year, but your sales pace is running at such a significant number. Can you just give us an update on your kind of ability to serve that if demand continues to grow at this current pace?

Yeah. And I think we're well positioned from an operational standpoint footprint to continue to serve the demand. As I mentioned earlier, the labor initially was an issue for us, but we've overcome that with technology, quite frankly innovating in the plants, we are getting more product out with less people than ever before.

So I think what will end up happening is our dealer/distributor base, they're adding as many crews as they can. But again there's kind of a governor on the amount of labor that's available and so it's kind of keeping up a natural slower pace on that. And I think on our end, we're definitely able to meet from a capacity side the demand in the market and it continues to grow. We've got long-term three- and five-year plans with expansion of capacity as it's needed. From a brick-and-mortar standpoint, we're in incredibly good shape.

It'd just be a matter of adding a line or a shift depending on what location we're talking about. So, we're in a very good shape from a capacity standpoint.

Got it. Great. Thank you.

You're welcome.

And, ladies and gentlemen, today's final question will come from Ken Zener of KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Ken.

Hey, Ken.

I look forward to the Phoenix Day. I have a couple questions. And I apologize if I didn't hear the initial part just because I was on another call. But the gross margin, did you highlight how much of that was organic as opposed to an M&A mix just so we could get a better understanding of – and please comment on kind of fourth quarter whether it's sequential, year-over-year?

Yeah. So, Ken, I did mention that in my prepared remarks that the impact of Western on gross margin in the third quarter was about 1.7%, and this acquisition was done basically halfway through the quarter if you want to do any kind of extrapolation on that. And, yes, you would anticipate – again, you got to consider the fact that Western was acquired halfway through the third quarter. So with that in mind, you got – you guys normally typically see a margin decline a little bit in the fourth quarter because of lower sales that we typically see and the leverage from that standpoint. But, yeah, we did comment it was 1.7% in the third quarter.

Okay. Very impressive there. Now the fact that you guys – on R&R, you said 56% growth, I think. So, that's just – that's amazing. I mean, operationally, how does this – I mean how are you guys operationally doing this? Are your people like working overtime or is it just the efficiency and the shift's so great now due to – Jeff, you talked about automation. I mean it's an amazing amount of throughput there.

Yeah. Well we – obviously at the beginning of this year, we expanded that capacity for CGI. They were [ph] debt (01:01:11) planning. We were up against the wall in that plant – the old plant location and that didn't allow for efficient flow of product through the facility. Now in the new facility, we've been able to better lay out all those lines and as we moved into that new facility, we actually upgraded equipment. So we're able to make more faster or at a quicker pace than we could before.

And obviously the mix has helped, quite frankly with the R&R side of the business bringing on a higher mix component for us. And here at PGT, we're more vinyl now than we ever have been. And the automation we had invested in say over the past two – like two-and-a-half years has been more towards that vinyl growth. And so as that growth occurs, we're now reaping the benefit of it. We launched – we re-launched our PGT vinyl WinGuard product which is our biggest launch in our company's history two years ago, and when we did that, obviously, the volume wasn't necessarily there, but we built it to comp, if you will, so we had the brand new equipment, the technology changes, et cetera. And so as that volumes come, we're now reaping the benefit of that and that's what you're seeing when you say really impressive growth. That's part of our investing. We're investing in technology, and to be honest with you, the last point I'll say is leadership.

Like I had mentioned, one of our pillars, we've added talent to all of our locations here in Florida from CGI to Windows to PGT, and that talent has been onboard now, going on two, three years. And as that talent is here longer, they understand the processes better, you couple that with volume and improved technology, you get much more efficient product and much more efficient margins.

Well said. Realizing you're going to be addressing a lot of this stuff in Phoenix and expanding it, it just – I was reading an article yesterday about Toll Brothers was building some stuff in Phoenix, but they actually were kind of doing a slightly lower price point than they're used to doing. But they said it was going to be luxurious in the sense that they had a kind of a walkout door, which I know you guys, Western Windows, it's in their product. I imagine they're going to have a big 15-foot sliding door and 300,000-foot home – $300,000 priced home.

How – given the penetration that you have in your Florida market, the reason I asked about Western Windows is that seems like that's got to be – it's almost greenfield like lower price points in addition to R&R, it seems, is one of those things that you guys will look out at. But is that what gives you guys so much confidence is that there's just so many price – home price points as well as just the R&R side to that business? And then obviously I think you talked about their very large manufacturing footprint that's unused still.

Yes. Yes, that's a great question. Couple of things. One is the indoor/outdoor living isn't necessarily a price point home. In other words, it can be in a $300,000 home, or it is in $2 million, $3 million homes, and that product can go in either, quite frankly, and we have different products within Western that fit different niches within that market. And so we're not scared. Hey, it's a $200,000 condo, for instance. They go in condos and townhomes all of the time because still people want that indoor/outdoor feeling. Now you might not be selling two story's worth of it, you may only be selling a three-panel slider or a bifold door, whatever, but it still goes into that market. And the newness of wanting that indoor/outdoor living, contemporary look, all that's still growing. So, that's what makes us excited on that end.

And to be honest with you, we really just hadn't reached out to a dealer network that supports R&R market like we have here in Florida. And they have that in California. There's tons of homes that get fixed every day from the R&R perspective in California. And so that's just a market we just really uncapped. I'm not going to say we've nailed down R&R home with Western, but we probably have. But what we haven't done is concentrated on a dealer network that specializes in that and have that – have a marketing team market to that network and with products, innovations, with literature, et cetera, and programs. So, that's what over the next 12 months that Scott and teams from here – or salespeople from here, will be doing and it excites us, yes.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And to close our question-and-answer session, I'd like to turn the conference back over to the management team for any final remarks.

Thanks again, Rocco. A great job done by you. And if anyone has any further call or questions, please feel free to reach out to me and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter or even if you can make it hopefully at the Investor Day in the 4th – in December 4 in Phoenix. Thank you.

And thank you, sir. Today's conference has now concluded and we thank you all for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.