Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bradley R. West — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Truman Patterson — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities
Maggie Wellborn — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Margaret Grady — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Alvaro Lacayo — Analyst, G.research LLC
Sam J. Darkatsh — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Marius Morar — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Kenneth Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the PGT Innovations Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Brad West. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, and welcome to the PGT Innovations fourth quarter 2018 earnings conference call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode, and good morning and thank you for joining us on our call today. This morning, we are pleased to provide our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2018 results as well as an outlook for 2019.

In addition to the news release, we had provided a slide presentation to accompany today's discussion. This webcast is being recorded and will be available for replay on the Investors page of our website at PGT Innovations along with the supporting slides.

Before we begin, please direct your attention to the disclosure statement on slide 2 of the presentation as well as the disclaimers included in the press release related to forward-looking statements. Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements including the outlook for our 2019 performance that involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. This disclaimer is a brief summary of the company's statutory forward-looking statement disclaimer, which is included in the company's filings with the SEC.

Additionally on slide 3, you should also note that we report results using non-GAAP measures which we believe provides additional information for investors to help facilitate comparison of past and present performance. A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in included in the tables attached to the earnings release and in the appendix of the slide presentation.

I would now like to turn the call over to Jeff Jackson, PGT Innovations CEO and President.

Thanks, Brad. Good morning, everyone. Fiscal year 2018 was a transformative year for PGT Innovations, and I'm very pleased with our results.

On slide 4, we have included some background information on our company for those of you who may be new to the story, and I will highlight some key facts.

Our full-year sales of $698 million represent a 37% increase over 2017, with 27% of our year-over-year growth achieved organically. With the acquisition of Western Window Systems last year, we became a national leader in the premium window and door space. The acquisition expanded our geographic footprint and rebalanced our portfolio to nearly 50/50 split between repair and remodeling and new construction end markets. Additionally, Western adds a strong, non-impact brand that command high margins as to our legacy impact products. To finance the acquisition, we entered the bond market for the first time. And as a result, over 80% of our current leverage is at an attractive fixed rate of 6.7%.

Following the acquisition, we completed a successful equity offering with net proceeds used to pay down our debt, floating rate debt, quickly deleveraging our balance sheet. I'm proud to report PGT Innovations' net leverage at the end of 2018 was 2.1 times. We believe this balance sheet provides significant strength and flexibility for future operational and strategic initiatives.

Turning to slide 5. It is important to take a few minutes to review our strategy for creating long-term value for our customers and shareholders. At PGT Innovations, we attribute our success through continued execution of our four strategic pillars. Our first pillar is putting the customer at the center of our business, striving to deliver 360-degree service before, during, and after the sale. Second, we work hard to attract top talent and we offer benefits and support to help our team members succeed. We believe that a talented and dedicated team of employees is key to success and we continually look for ways to make our company an attractive place to have a career.

In 2018, I'm especially proud we made every employee as shareholders, giving them a chance to participate in our future success. We continue this benefit with another grant to all our team members at the beginning of 2019. Third, we are committed to investing in our business when it's prudent to do so and scale in operations to meet increasing demands. Our organic growth of 27% in 2018 with solid margin improvement, pretty much was significant accomplishment that would not have been possible without a well-timed strategic investment in our business to increase production capacity and improve efficiencies.

Looking forward, we expect to continue to invest in operational projects designed to improve efficiency and capacity. And fourth, we strategically allocate capital generated from our strong free cash flow to reduce our debt and support our growth. Going forward, we expect to maintain a strong balance sheet and build cash to allow flexibility for futuristic and opportunistic acquisitions and other investments in our business.

We anticipate that our strategic path forward will involve creating a national market leading, building products company with a team focused on niche products brands, which will continue to yield strong margins and significant cash flow.

Now, I'd like to discuss our results in more detail, beginning on slide 6. I'm excited to report another quarter of strong financial results reflected continued growth and demand for our impact-resistant products in our legacy markets and growth and demand for our Western Window Systems energy efficient products which are designed to unify indoor/outdoor living space.

For the quarter, we delivered sales of $190 million including our sales contribution of $31 million from Western Window Systems acquisition and organic growth of $24.7 million or 18%. Our legacy repair and remodeling and new construction markets grew by 18% and 19%, respectively, versus the prior year quarter. Adjusted gross margin grew by 2.3% in the fourth quarter versus prior year, largely driven by the accretion from the Western Window Systems acquisition.

Our legacy markets, we were successful in implementing price increases and driving operational efficiencies to offset labor, material and other cost inflations in our business. Adjusted EBITDA of $31.5 million in the fourth quarter represents growth of 34% versus the same quarter last year.

On slide 7 for our full-year, I'll reiterate the 2018 sales increased by 37% to $698 million, which includes a sales contribution of $49.7 million from Western Window Systems. Versus the prior year, sales in our legacy repair and remodeling and new construction markets grew by approximately 34% and 17%, respectively. Adjusted gross margin for 2018 grew by 1.3% versus 2017 driven primarily by our successful efforts in implementing price increases and driving operational efficiencies including a significant reduction in our [ph] strat (00:07:57). Gross margins were also positively impacted by the accretion from our Western Window Systems acquisition. Adjusted EBITDA for the year of $127 million, an increase of 48% versus the prior year.

Next, turning to slide 8, I would like to provide a further update on Western Window Systems. After closing on the acquisition in August of last year, integration is on schedule and well under way. We expect first year annualized cost synergies of approximately $8 million primarily coming from supply chain efficiencies where we can offer greater economies of scale.

We also anticipate many cross-selling opportunities and strengthening brand recognition as we utilize brands across the PGT Innovations portfolio. The Western Window Systems acquisition meaningfully expanded our geographic coverage, enhance our premium product offering in the growing indoor/outdoor living market and created synergy opportunities moving forward.

Moving to slide 9, I would like to remind you we are currently four years into our strategy to become a national leader of premium windows and doors. Phase one was to further solidify our position in our core market of Florida by increasing our product offerings to meet the needs of our customers in our market.

Next, we acquired CGI and WinDoor, the second and third strongest brands in the impact product space in 2014 and 2016, respectively. We were able to complete these acquisitions and subsequent integrations while maintaining industry-leading margin profiles. The next phase of our strategy is and continues to be the expansion into new geographies and other niche window and door products.

We took our first step by the addition of Western Window Systems in this product lines which satisfies some of the most stringent energy codes and regulations in North America, and sort of a growing contemporary indoor/outdoor living segment across the country. We believe the Western Window Systems will continue to achieve sales growth above the overall market by adding builders who desire the products Western offers. And they will continue to achieve industry-leading margins by focusing on high-end niche energy-efficient windows and doors while driving continuous operational improvements.

Turning to slide 10, while certain regions of the national housing market have shown signs of slowing, we expect Florida to maintain its position as the fastest-growing state in the nation. With a population of more than 21 million, we continue to believe there is significant new construction growth potential remaining. In Florida, we're estimating the 2019 housing starts to be approximately 105,000, well below the normalized single- family starts of approximately 125,000 per year.

On slide 11, prior to 2018, it was estimated that of the homes in Florida, only 18% have impact-resistant windows, 13% have impact-resistant doors and 18% storm shutters. That indicates that at least 50% of Floridians had no protection on their opening to their homes to safeguard their property against severe storms prior to 2018. The 34% growth we experienced in the repair and remodeling market in 2018 is evident that many Floridians decided to add impact-resistant windows and doors in lieu of shutters and plywood. Hurricane Michael and Irvine demonstrated that every home in Florida, not just coastal homes, can be impacted by severe weather.

As a result, homeowners throughout the entire state had begun searching for hurricane protection for their homes, which is why we believe our advertising and marketing investments continue to benefit [audio gap] (00:12:07). With Western Window Systems, we have expanded into the indoor-outdoor living market which represents a total opportunity of approximately $8 billion to $9 billion.

The largest segment is in new construction of high-end homes that feature multi-sliding doors in the back of the houses. From 2012 to 2017, the indoor-outdoor living market saw an average annual growth rate of 11%. For new contemporary homes, this market represents approximately $2 billion opportunity, and it's growing at a faster pace, averaging 24% per year from 2012 to 2017.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Brad to discuss the financial results in more detail. Brad?

Thank you, Jeff. First, I would like to review some of our significant achievements from 2018 and then discuss fourth quarter results in more detail. In August 2018, we acquired Western Window Systems for $355 million. In order to finance the transaction, we entered the bond markets for the first time, [ph] breaking (00:13:15) $315 million at attractive rates of 6.75%.

At the confirmation of the acquisition, our gross leverage ratio was approximately 4 times trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA, inclusive of $8 million in annual cost synergies and within our targeted range of 2 times to 4 times.

In September 2018, we completed a stock offering which generated proceeds allowing us to pay down $152 million of our term loan credit facility to further strengthen our balance sheet. In the fourth quarter, we also paid an additional $8 million off of our term loan credit facility. As Jeff mentioned, at the end of the fourth quarter, our net leverage ratio has improved to 2.1 times and over 80% of our remaining leverage is at a fixed rate of 6.75% in an environment of rising interest rates.

Another positive result of our $152 million debt pay-down was that we received ratings upgrades from Moody's to B1. Additionally, we have a B+ rating from Standard & Poor's with a positive outlook. We believe our access to long-term borrowings at an attractive rate, together with the completion of an acquisition that provides us with geographical and product line diversity and other benefits, has put PGT Innovations in a strong financial and operational position well-poised for continued growth.

Now, moving on to slide 12 for a summary of our results for the quarter. We reported net sales of $189.9 million including organic growth of $24.7 million or 18% driven by a growth in our legacy repair and remodel and new constructions markets of 18% and 19%, respectively, versus prior year. Fourth quarter sales also included a sales contribution of $31.0 million from Western Window Systems.

Our gross profit, exclusive of adjusted items, was $66.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2018, up $22.6 million versus the fourth quarter of 2017. And our adjusted gross margin increased to 34.8% or 2.3% percentage increase from prior year driven mainly by gross margin accretion from Western Window Systems in our fourth quarter. In our legacy business, we were able to offset higher costs with increases in our prices, higher volumes and improved operating effectiveness and efficiencies.

To give an update on our aluminum products program, the increase in aluminum prices had a negative impact of 1.5 percentage points on our gross margins in the fourth quarter. As of today, we have contracted approximately 75% of our estimated aluminum needs for 2019. Our current coverage is for LME portion only and is at $0.96 per pound. This does not include the delivery costs, which today is approximately $0.19 per pound. We will continue to monitor tariff and trade environment effect on aluminum pricing and if appropriate, make adjustments to our coverage program and pricing strategy.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $45.6 million in the fourth quarter 2018, an increase of $19.2 million from $26.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses was $44.1 million in the fourth quarter or 23% of net sales compared to $25.6 million in fourth quarter of 2017 or 19.1% of sales, an increase of 4.1%.

Western Window Systems contributed $12.6 million including $2.4 million of non-tax amortization and SG&A in the fourth quarter 2018. Our legacy business SG&A grew from 19.1% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2017 to 19.8% of sales in the fourth quarter of 2018, including $1.7 million of higher incentive compensation due to our improved performance year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2018 was $31.5 million or a margin of 16.6% compared with adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter 2017 of $23.5 million or 17.5%.

As additional information, the new accounting standard for revenue recognition impacted our fourth quarter 2018 results negligibly by reducing sales and adjusted EBITDA by $7.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, which reduce our adjusted EBITDA margin by 70 basis points. Interest expense for the fourth quarter was $7.1 million, an increase of $1.8 million versus last year. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to a higher debt balance for the quarter. The current quarter interest expense includes approximately $300,000 of noncash charges related to the $8 million prepayment that we made during the quarter.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $8.6 million in the fourth quarter 2018, an increase of $3.4 million versus the prior-year period driven mainly by the acquisition of Western Window Systems.

Taxes for the fourth quarter were $2.5 million at an effective tax rate of 19.4%. Additionally in the fourth quarter of 2017, we had a tax credit of $12.4 million reflecting the positive impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2018 was also favorably impacted of $600,000 for excess tax benefits of stock option exercises.

We recorded GAAP net income of $10.9 million or $0.18 per diluted share for the fourth quarter versus $20.3 million or $0.39 per share in the fourth quarter 2017. Excluding one-time items, adjusted earnings per share for the fourth quarter 2018 was $0.21 versus $0.18 in the same quarter last year, representing a 17% increase.

Moving on to slide 13, I would like to review our current expectations regarding our capital allocation priorities. Our first priority is internal investment and strategic growth projects that we believe are important to PGT Innovations' ability to drive future shareholder value. And we expect to continue to support our product portfolio by making investments in advertising marketing, which are proven beneficial to our growth.

Our second priority is debt reduction and maintaining a solid balance sheet. I've already gone over how we completed a major transaction and were able to subsequently pay down debt to finish the year with a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.1 times. We maintain as a goal achieving a conservative leverage profile within a range of 2 times to 4 times.

Our third priority for our capital allocation approach is looking for strategic acquisitions. We expect to continue to look for attractive opportunities to expand into new geographies and/or other niche window and door products.

Looking ahead into 2019 on slide 14, I will give some of our expectations regarding combined company assumptions going forward. We expect interest expense to be approximately $7 million per quarter, we expect a tax rate of around 26%, we expect depreciation and amortization expense to be approximately $9 million per quarter, and we expect annual non-cash compensation to be approximately $4.2 million due to our employee stock plan. Lastly, we expect capital expenditures to be – to average between 3% and 4% of annual sales.

And finally, I would like to review 2019 guidance provided this morning. PGT Innovations expect to finish in the following ranges for 2019 fiscal year: net sales of $775 million $800 million, an increase of 11% to 15%, compared to 2018; adjusted EBITDA of $143 million to $152 million, an increase of 13% to 20% compared to 2018; and net income per diluted share of $0.93 to $1.05.

In the first quarter, we are currently tracking to $174 million to $179 million in sales, which would be a growth of approximately 3% to 5% on a pro forma basis. This is higher than our full year guidance of 3% growth at the top end of our annual range. EBITDA for Q1 is expected to finish at approximately 16% at those sales levels.

With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Jeff for some closing thoughts. Jeff?

Thank you, Brad. Now I'd like to take a few minutes just to elaborate on the macroeconomic assumptions behind our guidance for 2019. Consistent with many industry forecasters, we are expecting a low single digit growth rate in national housing starts, mainly due to labor constraints, affordability concerns and interest rate increases we experienced in 2018.

Related to a couple of our core markets, we are expecting new home starts in Florida to grow approximately 9% to 10% in 2019, while we expect new home starts in California to remain relatively flat versus in 2019. We believe PGT Innovations is strategically insulating more than most building product companies from national housing starts due to our geographic concentration and destination states and our focus on selling in the indoor/outdoor living markets, which have historically grown at rates higher than the national housing starts.

Regarding the growth prospects for the indoor/outdoor living market, please note that Western Window Systems has grown at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 22% since 2015, far exceeding the growth in housing starts during that period. We believe this level of growth demonstrates the strength of demand for building products that unify indoor/outdoor living spaces, and we anticipate the opportunity to continue to gain market share and penetrate into this growing market. Our 2019 guidance assumes an overall high-single-digit growth rate for new construction sales.

Related to the repair and remodeling market, we just included the strongest year in the company history with 34% repair and remodeling growth fueled by hurricane awareness from Irma, the first hurricane to hit Florida since 2005. While we believe the repair and remodeling markets are still strong in Florida, our expectation will be for the repair and remodeling markets to be flat with 2018 with another storm driving further awareness. Regardless, at the end of 2019, our two-year compound annual growth rate will still be quite healthy.

Florida remains a great state to operate in and we will continue to drive sales of our impact-resistant products with our leading market position, breadth of highly innovative product offerings and increased advertising.

From a margin perspective, our 2019 guidance assumes the following, cost inflation from materials mainly due to tariffs, continued wage inflation associated with attracting and retaining qualified workers, the negative impact of mix that will result from new construction sales outpacing the repair and remodeling growth, somewhat offset by the impact of a price increase announced in the back half of 2018. We will strive to continue to drive operational efficiencies as we've demonstrated during 2018 and supply chain initiatives also to offset these cost of inflation initiatives.

Finally, our guidance for 2019 assumes that there are no major hurricanes in Florida that would disrupt our ability to manufacture and deliver our products or disrupt the ability of our dealers to take orders during 2019.

In closing, I would like to remind you of the five elements of our investment thesis. First – on slide 15, first, we are national leader in the growing category of premium window and doors. Second, we are committed to continuing our investment in talent and R&D to remain the industry leader with innovative products. Third, we have an ongoing focus on operational efficiencies expected to drive additional margin expansion. Fourth, we are focused on striving to achieve strong execution of our strategy to create long-term customer and long-term shareholder value. And fifth, we are well positioned with a diversified product portfolio and diversified geographic markets to capture profitable growth in new construction and repair and remodel channels.

2018 was a milestone year for PGT Innovations and our team. It is an exciting time to be a part of our family of brands. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to the operator to begin our Q&A. Operator?

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Truman Patterson with Wells Fargo.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First thing that I'd like to dig into is your revenue growth guidance for 2019. You guys set up 11% to 15%. If I throw in an extra seven to eight months of Western Windows in there, it seems like your guidance implies flat to maybe 1% growth in the legacy PGTI and – given Western Windows growth in there.

Could you walk us through the moving parts, you guys? California market should be flat while Florida and new res should be up high-single digits. I think this implies that actually Florida R&R should be negative then. Could you just walk us through how to think about this?

Yeah. I'll touch on that, and I'll let Brad get into the details as well. But as Brad told – mentioned in his comments, our Q1 guidance right now, Florida – overall company, we're tracking anywhere from 3% to 5% growth in our first quarter. But, Truman, that's before our heavy R&R quarters, and the second and third quarter are very heavy R&R periods for PGT legacy brands. And we are comping in an incredible year, 34% growth rate in R&R the largest percentage in our company's history, up the largest based on our company's history. So right now, we have that kind of a headwind to go through, and we're trying to lay out what we consider a conservative guidance as we face that comp that will impact us in our thought process.

Second is really the California market that you mentioned in your comment, look, the California market being flat, what we have to do and it will be new for us this year consistent with Western previous, but we have to execute in that flat market and gain share. We think we're going to. We got initiatives to drive penetration. In a flat market, we think we can still grow but our assumption and our guidance is that's flat and that's going to be a tough hurdle to overcome.

So those are the two driving initiatives that have our guidance to where it is, and we have initiatives in place to address it all. It's just too early in the process for us to be aggressive in thinking we're going to succeed.

Let me add to that, the – as we're going to last year in Q4 of 2017, you started seeing the demand for R&R pick up and that's carried all the way through 2018, as we mentioned. But at the beginning of the year, we kind of anticipated some of that with a price increase that we announced at the beginning of last year. And also, during the middle of the summer season, we announced the price increases since we're dealing with the aluminum tariff situation that was going on.

So we had two price increases last year as well. That also probably drove some of the summer season tough comps that we're dealing with as we go into 2019.

I'm having a little bit of a hard time hearing you guys, but is it is it safe to assume that what's implied in your guidance is probably negative R&R growth, yet that might not be exactly what's in your real expectations. Is that safe to assume?

Yes. Again, we're comping that 34% incredible growth year. And so, yes, we're saying absent another major storm or something happening we could be negative, slightly negative in our R&R growth offset by obviously new construction still growing and that's taking share there. And then offset somewhat again by tough comp in California with housing starts everyone saying they're going to be roughly and trying to gain penetration there.

Okay. Okay. Thanks. Thanks for that, guys. Another question on guidance, whenever we look at your 2019 EBITDA margin, the midpoint, I think, is only up about 50 bps year-over-year at 18.7% or so. It seems like the accretion from Western alone just from another seven, eight months should add that to your 2019 margins alone. This is excluding any of the $8 million in synergies that you guys are suggesting you're going to achieve. So essentially, we've got flat legacy PGTI and flat Western Windows margins year-over-year. I guess what's driving that? Are there any mix issues? Are we actually going to see negative gross margins or just flat gross margins, flat SG&A? And I'm trying to understand what's going on with your legacy pieces of the business.

Yeah. So, Truman, the initial estimates that we talked about for Western are still in play. The basic issue that we're dealing with is absolutely mix. So last year during the first, second, and third quarter, our R&R growth substantially outpaced new constructions, we called out about 100 bps on average of mix improvement that we saw from that R&R growth, but what we're thinking this year with our guidance is the kind of the reverse read, new construction grows faster than R&R, so there's some implied mix negative impact in our guidance to of about 100 bps, and that is kind of basically how you get to the expectation we had of $150 million from Western to $50 million now is that $100 million reduction on the mix side. And that's basically the legacy of R&R new construction mix that we're talking about.

Okay. Got you. So there's no negative margin in Western Window's at all implied in that guidance or accretion?

No. Absolutely not. [indiscernible]

(00:32:13)

...flat as well.

Yeah. Everything – yeah, the cost synergies in Western of margin profile continues to go as expected.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

We'll turn next to Michael Rehaut with JPMorgan.

Hi. This is actually Maggie on for Mike. First, I was just wondering if you could kind of quantify some of those gross margin drivers a little bit more for 2019 and could talk about what you're expecting to see in terms of like inflation, raw materials and maybe just more of the price?

Yeah. So, we talked about in the last call the impact of tariffs being about 40 bps and that is still kind of implied in the guidance. We do not have any at this point in time any – as soon as the price increases that will go into place in 2019, we do get the impact of the pricing increase that was made in the summer of 2018, the first six months of that. I do think in the first quarter we'll still have some aluminum of the – some aluminum headwind.

Last year, the Midwest premium jumped out at the end of the first quarter, so we saw that in the second, third and fourth quarter. In the first quarter, we'll probably have 50 bps of aluminum headwind. So just over [ph] common (00:33:41) and we should be flat the rest of the year. But I think the most important issue is the mix issue I just described with Truman at 100 bps. That's really the most important factor on gross margin for this year.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And then secondly, I was wondering if you could talk about how you're thinking about your M&A pipeline. Are you actively looking into potential acquisitions, or are you more fully focused on integrating and leveraging the internal systems and growing Western Window?

Yeah. This is Jeff. As I look at that, I'll be honest with you, the team is keenly focused on the integration efforts, which are going incredibly well. We will probably – do I get different companies sent to me? Yes, just like everyone else. But right now, to be honest with you, we're at 2.1 times leverage and I always like to go below 2 times. So we got another couple of quarters for that to happen. And then again, integration, once Western's perform – as Western continues to perform like they've been and then PGT, we will look to future acquisitions more towards the end of this year or beginning of 2020 versus currently.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

We'll turn next to Jeremy Hamblin with Dougherty & Company.

Thanks, and congrats on a strong 2018, guys. I wanted to hop into the EPS guidance for the year. And just, Brad, if you might just help us to understand the puts and takes here on share count, taxes, it sounded – I think I caught 26% tax rate, but could you just walk us through a little bit more of the puts and takes on your EPS guidance?

Yeah, sure, Jeremy. So we finished the year at $1.18 reported in 2018 adjusted EPS. That does have a couple of things that I'd like to normalize a little as we go into 2019. First is the share count. Obviously versus last year, our share count is up a good bit and our weighted average is up about 5.5 million of shares based upon the equity offering. If you look at that, that's about $0.10. So that $1.18 would then therefore be $1.08. And then if you look at our tax rate, as you mentioned, we had $0.09 of excess tax benefits. We had quite a bit of option exercises last year in 2019. Our guidance does not assume any of that – well, I'm sorry, in 2018. Our guidance does not assume any of that will happen in 2019, though there likely will be, it's just you really can't put that into your guidance. That was $0.09. So that was to take you down to $0.99 in 2018 kind of on an apples to apples basis. So the top end of our guidance of $1.05 would be EPS growth of about 5% to 6% off of that.

Okay, great. That's helpful. I want to come back to Q4 for a second and just see, I think Western Windows contributed $31 million to sales. What was the contribution to EBITDA from Western Windows in Q4?

Yes. Yeah. That is not a number that we normally would quote, Jeremy. I will say one thing about Western as we go into Q4 of 2018 and into 2019, they do operate in both custom and production builder volume channels that we've talked about a good bit during our [ph] Insight (00:37:21) tour that I know you were at in Phoenix.

And one of the things that the mix, that 100 bps that we're kind of talking about, there is a little bit of a – in Western when they sell into the production builder business, they sell mostly doors and the company business will tend to have a little bit higher percentage of windows. So, one of the things that we see with Western is, from a mix perspective is, as they sell less production, builder will sell less doors which will have – it's a small impact on the total of the company since Western is the smaller portion of the business. But they did in Q4 have a little bit higher percentage of window sales than they had the rest of the year, and that is a part of it. But we're not going to give specific EBITDA guidance.

Okay. Understood. And then just elaborating on the EBITDA margin, the swing from – or I should actually even focus just on the gross margins here in Q4. That kind of roughly 200 basis point decline from Q3 to Q4 despite kind of a full quarter of benefit from Western Window, was there a slightly negative mix shift as well? But just a little bit more color on that sequential change in gross margins. I know some of it is just from lower sales and probably end of year reduction in factory time...

Yeah. Yes. From a sequential standpoint, it is basically mostly just a change in sales from Q3 to Q4. We did have a little bit of a mix issue because we were – had been 34% plus in R&R all year long and new construction was something less than that, but then in Q4, they leveled out. We talked about 19% and 18%.

I do want to go back, and I'm not going to spend a lot of time because it's kind of accounting technical, but when I mentioned that accounting ASC 606 implications, that actually – that 70 bps is for the most part all gross margin. And what that comes down to, just to get it real quickly, is just the level of finished goods you have on hand and typically going into the end of the year, we would reduce our inventories as we head to the shutdown. So from what we actually invoiced and sold, our performance would have been higher and our results and our margins would have been higher save this new accounting treatment. We do think in 2019 that kind of for the most part will level itself out because our inventory levels were higher at the end of 2018 because of Hurricane Irma and that's what kind of drove it. But that's really what kind of drove the earnings – the gross margin issue.

If we look at 2019, we still expect the improvements that we talked about from Western and the only real headwind that we're facing on that besides aluminum in the first quarter I mentioned was the mix issue that we're probably going to fight with all year.

Okay. Thanks. Last one here, just the implied range in your guidance for SG&A for the year.

Well, Jeremy, hold on a second, let me grab that. Yeah. It's probably going to be – and remember, this will be a full year of Western which has the higher SG&A cost coming from improved – a higher non-cash amortization, but it's probably in the neighborhood of 21% to 22%, in that range somewhere.

Okay. And the amortization that you're factoring in there is roughly...

Well, $9 million a quarter as combined company's depreciation and amortization. And I think I mentioned in the last call that amortization from Western will be $9 million a year in SG&A, so that's unchanged.

Okay. And so the amortization, I guess is kind of in the $15 million, $16 million range for the year?

For the total of the company?

Yeah.

I think that's correct.

All right. Thanks, guys. Good luck this year.

Thanks.

Thanks, Jeremy.

We'll turn now to Philip Ng with Jefferies.

Good morning, guys. It's Maggie on for Phil. I just wanted...

Good morning.

Yeah. Hi. I wanted to dive into the projected organic growth. It implies the pre-sharp deceleration and I know in the past you've talked about increasing consumer awareness driving demand in 2018. So, I guess given the lack of major storms in Florida this year, are you starting to see that tail end taper off?

Yeah. I don't think it's not that is tapering off, I would say it's more, I guess if you look at the R&R growth market in Florida this past year 2018, I think it grew way more than even our dealer base anticipated it would. So there are inherent constraints in that group that market until let's say continue grow namely in labor. And so that's acting kind of as a governor. And again in our thought process of how much more can R&R grow in any given quarter.

But with that said, we do think we're going to continue to advertise. We're going to continue to push our brand and there's more market share we can take within and our R&R market is flat, but that's executing against a competitor versus just growing in a market that's a growing at 34%. So it's a little bit different strategy, a little bit different tactic involved, but we're definitely executing on a strategy to take share even if our market does – being flat year-over-year.

Okay. Got it. And then a larger theme we've been seeing as kind of the shift to more affordable home. So curious to hear if you've seen or expect to see any trade down effect from that shift to affordability?

No. Not really. That's really not the market we serve. That's the commodity window and door market. With that said, our products especially the indoor/outdoor living products can go into a lower priced homes because the cost of having wall full of windows versus a wall with a couple of doors, and sheet rock, and plumbing, or electrical, et cetera is about the same. And so the upselling option to that builder is much more obviously, so it can go into that and also to address that kind of lower in impact market. We did launch Sparta last year if you recall. And so that's been a – definitely a good win for us in locking up some builder business that typically would have went to other competitors.

Got it. And if I can squeeze in one more. You mentioned internal investments as your top capital allocation priority. Can you just talk us through some of those and whether it's improving efficiency or extending capacity and how we should think about those benefits starting to flow through to results? Thanks.

Yeah. I mean, from my seat we're constantly looking at innovation and products – product offerings. We have an innovation lab. We have products in there that we're testing in the market to see if they're viable. So technology surrounding how we actually produce. One of the driving factors of our improved gross margin and EBITDA margin over the last few years is the technological advances we've put in our plant here behind me as well as what Western Window Systems had brought previously to our acquisition.

So as technology advances, we will be on that cutting edge to drive down labor cost and obviously reap the benefit with improved margins. So we mentioned investing in our technology is surrounded with the thought process of staying the industry leader in our categories with innovative products and then automation. That's kind of the next phase of manufacturing in terms of driving out labor costs.

And I'm going to add to that, Jeff. We had a point last year where we increased, within our Venice operations, basically our ability to deliver almost $1.5 million to $2 million more a week in a very short amount of time to handle the 34% R&R growth where some of that growth was fueled by the marketing and advertising decisions that we made, both following the storm in fourth quarter of 2017 as well as some thoughtful additions to our portfolio from a marketing perspective in the first half of 2018 as we head into this [ph] easing (00:46:41).

So I thought our internal investments that we made in our pass over year can specifically, the back half of 2017 and the first half of 2018 were a huge driving factor towards what we called off in 2018.

All right, great. Thanks, guys. Good luck this year.

Thank you.

We'll now turn to Alvaro Lacayo with G.research.

Good morning, guys. I just have a question...

Good morning.

...a question regarding Western Windows and California and the assumption for flat housing starts in California. The dynamics in California are a little bit different from Florida from an affordability standpoint which seems to be a little bit more stretched. And there seems to be a little bit more volatility recently in demand from housing starts there. So maybe if you can give us some color on how you arrive to flat housing starts in California. And then bigger picture, when you think about the growth algorithm for Western Windows, how do you think about the piece of increased penetration market share and if pricing plays a role at all? And when you put all of that together, what are the expectations for 2019? What kind of growth are you expecting to see out of Western Windows?

As it relates to the actual guidance for housing starts in Florida, I mean, that's basically just based on the Moody's or any kind of those housing starts that we see and the trends. Obviously we're back to kind of the single-digit nationally, but Florida and California are very different than that. And as we mentioned about 9% in Florida. Western operates both in Southern California and in Northern California and there's probably some different housing start factors [indiscernible] (00:48:36) if you split the state in half like that. But I think flat is kind of where we landed on for our guidance. And as Western is always trying to accomplish and has accomplished, they've gotten – they've gained share and they beat that number and that's what we expect going forward from Western.

Yeah. I'll just comment briefly on Western as well. I mean the goal is very simple, is to grow Western brands in a flat market. Initiatives involving that are a little bit more complicated. We are actively establishing an R&R market. So we're going through California today establishing dealers that deal more in the R&R space to get the Western brands in that market as well as expanding our relationships with the current homebuilders there to further penetrate and get into the model homes so that product can be shown as an option versus other choices. So those are the two kind of initiatives that we're tackling what we consider a potential flat market in California and we will grow. It's just a matter of the success of those initiatives.

I don't think we've ever commented on certain brand grows before. I don't really want to get into that at this point. I mean, in terms of pricing, kind of the third part of your question, pricing, Western currently, they're setting incredibly nice in the pricing in terms of – compared to their competitors. They are not the highest. They're typically more towards the lowest even though obviously those higher will come down at times and play pricing to try to get a job.

But for the most part, Western Window Systems and our products there are priced in the lower side versus the competitors. And what's key is the delivery lead times are better. So, again, that that plays into that capturing share in a flat market. We can deliver a lower priced product in a quicker manner, but the quality is as good or better.

So that kind of combination, I think, we all feel comfortable we're going to succeed. But again, 2019 is going to be a challenging year. That's been the consistent theme we've heard from the building community and we got to play in it or execute in it.

Thanks. And then just with regards to the pricing carryover from last year, could you just give us a reminder on what's the magnitude of that pricing and what to expect in the first six months of 2019 from the carryover?

Yeah, we basically announced and this was a PGT legacy price increase announcement. We basically announced a 5 – the 7% price increase in the summer. And it's product-specific and it was kind of geared towards aluminum cost offset though some labor cost as well, aluminum labor cost.

That basically started hitting towards the end of Q3 and in Q4. So we'll have about two quarters of that. I did mention this is kind of implied in our guidance as well though, because we are – the price of labor continues to go up as we attract the best talent and I did say that we probably have about a 50 bps to 60 bps aluminum pressure in Q1 that's gone from last year.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

We'll go next to Sam Darkatsh with Raymond James.

Good morning, Jeff, Brad. How are you?

Hey, Sam. Good. How are you?

I'm well, and I just wanted to also send my thoughts out to anybody that was affected by the shooting earlier this week. Our thoughts and prayers go into your employee base and hopefully all is well.

I just have like three or four housekeeping questions, and I apologize for the elementary nature of these. So Brad, I didn't catch this if you mentioned it. What were impact sales in the fourth quarter year-on-year in the legacy business percentage-wise?

Yeah, just a second, Sam. We were basically – well, let me do it this way. Legacy-wise, we were 86% in Q4 and when you look at that's the total share of the total, impact sales were $136 basically million for the consolidated business 72% of impact – of sales from impact.

I'm not sure I'm following. So, I'm looking for the year-on-year growth rate of impact in the fourth quarter....

Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you were talking about the [indiscernible] (00:53:33). Okay. No, it was up 20% year-over-year.

That's it. There you go. And then backlog at the end of the year. Brad, do you have that handy?

I do. Just one second, please. So, we finished the year with backlog of $64 million, which includes $11 million from Western.

And that would be related to the $50 million, 5-0, from last year on an organic basis, right?

Yes.

All right. So it's up markedly. That's good. Okay. And then two other questions and if you've talked about this – you talked around on the call but I want to make sure I'm aware. So in the fourth quarter you obviously had a terrific sales print and it looked like gross margins at least might have fallen below expectations at least either externally or internally, you mentioned aluminum, you mentioned mix of R&R versus builder. But where was the primary negative variance versus your internal plan in gross margin in the fourth quarter?

Yeah. Sam, actually it all came down to the accounting and related to the new accounting standards because that affected it by 70 bps. It's just when we ended up with lower finished goods at the end of the year, it required us to have an accounting entry that reduced margins by 70 bps. That was actually the biggest factor. But the reason why I didn't talk about it so much because it's not really a factor in 2019. It was just a factor in Q4.

Got it. Okay. Thank you for that. And then last question, I apologize also if this was covered directly, but the guidance for the year, sales guidance for 2019, what's the implied organic sales growth rate? I think you mentioned for Q1, it's 3% to 5%. But what specifically is it for the year inherent within your guidance?

Yeah. It's a combination of an R&R expectation which at the top end of the range is probably flat, like Jeff mentioned, and the new construction growing at 9%. So it's basically flat to 3%.

Got it. Thank you very much, gentlemen. I appreciate it.

And then, Sam, just to your point of reference, just in case others don't know on the call, we did have a shooting. One of our employees was in his car in a parking lot on Tuesday night, actually Monday morning – or Tuesday morning early. And obviously, our number one priority is safety of our team members and we're committed to ensure they have a safe work environment.

But what we found out, it's more of a domestic issue with him and another person. And we immediately got him attention. He's doing fine. He went to the – we took him to the hospital. Minimal downtime in terms of the events here at PGT. We obviously have a secured plant and work with the police accordingly to make sure that this incident was resolved with him and the issue he was facing. So, but thank you for asking about that. And I just wanted to let you know that things are good here at the campus.

That sounds terrific. Thank you, Jeff.

Let's turn next to Nishu Sood with Deutsche Bank.

Hi. This is Marius in for Nishu. Thank you for taking my question.

Hi.

Hi. So my first question, I just wanted to go back to the growth assumption, the sales growth assumption for 2019. Is 11% contribution from the WWS acquisition a good assumption to use?

Well, yeah, we're not going to get into brand specific growth. The bottom line is, I think we kind of said what our legacy growth would be, and you can kind of imply. And we have a whole bunch of initiatives around synergies and driving additional brand awareness with Western as a new brand for us that's going to help drive growth to be faster than the market. But I think when we give a combined guidance that we're kind of – the extent that we really wanted to talk about.

Okay. And going back to price, do you mind giving your price assumptions? For example, Masonite talked about how most of their growth is going to be price, JELD-WEN, same thing. I've assumed you anticipate some volume growing as well. That's what I think I'm hearing. And I was just wondering if you could maybe give us a sense of how much is coming from price and how much from volume.

Yeah. So basically, the only price increase assumed in our model is the remaining effect of the price increase we had from last summer. So in a sense, it's about half a year and call it 5%, you could probably say 1% or 2% is left over from that price, from that growth from price and the rest is on...

In the first half.

Yeah. Well...

For the full year.

So 1% to 2% for impact for full year?

1% to 2% impact for the first half and then we catch up with the price increase.

All right. Thank you.

You're welcome.

And we'll turn now to Ken Zener with KeyBanc.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, Ken.

Good morning.

So, I empathize that you're trying to forecast comps when your R&R is up 30% to 50% in the second and third quarter. It's obviously very difficult. If we can kind of narrow that in, I think your backlog, you talked about $53 million – well, adjusted to $53 million versus $50 million, so up 6% is your kind of backlog that you're seeing right now. That I assume is obviously your organic business. I'm not sure, but I just said if R&R, because it grew so well, and I think being conservative is appropriate, if R&R was 5% higher than you're talking about, that'd be roughly $0.05 or $0.06 is how we're calculating it given your guidance. I think when we've – a quarter from now, are you going to have a much cleaner view on perhaps how your cautious view on R&R is? Well, not cautious, but your 1% to 3% view. If we're seeing backlog up 6% or 10%, is that going to get you to kind of shift your view about what the second, third quarter comps might be?

Yes, Ken. As you look at how we executed in 2018, as 2018 played out and we realized we were going to do better as we [ph] leap (01:01:00) expectations every quarter, as we saw that, we did change our guidance. And so, we will definitely have a better feel for how that R&R comp is going to impact our second quarter really at the beginning of that second quarter just based off order patterns and backlog like you had mentioned. We'll also have a better feel for how we can execute in a flat – say California does end up flat, how we execute in taking share, which we've historically done, as I'd pointed out with the growth patterns of Western, in a flat market. We'll have a better understanding of how we're going to be able to do that and our initiatives there and we'll adjust accordingly.

Hopefully, it'll all be positive and we'll be in a position to adjust our guidance upward. But right now, we feel based off what we set and the order patterns we've seen and the comps we're looking at and the housing commentary we listen to, we think we're still going to execute on 11% to 15% growth and be conservative and have a great year.

Yeah. And I appreciate that. And Brad I think you talked about mix, right? Impacting R&R versus new construction, obviously 2Q and 3Q is going to be very relevant for you. And I'm just trying to get sensitivities if gross margins, I think you talked about, I heard SG&A $21 million, $22 million, I'm going to call that $21.5 million kind of the midpoint of your guidance for your EBITDA guidance.

That means gross margins are kind of flat but if we face about 100 basis point – gross margin pressure this quarter – was your 100 basis-point comment for gross margin pressure was that -is that a full year thing? I'm just trying to think about how we can properly set expectations for 2Q and 3Q given that that was enormous R&R therefore uplift in mix, and how we should think about the full year versus kind of the 2Q, 3Q mix issue? I just want to make sure everyone is on the same page here.

Yeah. The 100 bps is the full year, but it will definitely have more impact in the quarter that you're comping a harder R&R quarter, because that's the genesis of the mix issue is the strength of the R&R margin. So yeah, in Q2 and Q3, it might be slightly higher than 100 basis points and in Q1 and Q4 maybe it's not as high as 100 basis points, but it gets to 100 basis points for the full year.

Okay. All right. I appreciate it. Thank you.

All right. Thanks, Ken.

Thanks, Ken.

And with that, we'll conclude our question-and-answer session. I'll now turn the conference back to you, Mr. West for any closing remarks.

Well, thanks, everybody, for taking the time to join us on the call today. We look forward to speaking with everyone next quarter. Take care.

With that, we'll conclude today's conference. Thank you, everyone, for your participation.