Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad West — Vice President & Controller, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PGT, Inc.
Sam J. Darkatsh — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Steve L. Dyer — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Rob G. Hansen — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Michael G. Dahl — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Desi DiPierro — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to your PGT, Incorporated, Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be a chance to ask questions and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.

And now, I'd like to turn it over to your host, Brad West, Vice President and Controller.

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to PGT's quarterly and fiscal year-end investor conference call. I'm Brad West, Corporate Controller and Vice President. And I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO; and Jeff Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. This morning, we are pleased to provide an update on our fourth quarter and year-end results, and our outlook for 2014. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release issued yesterday.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies, and market outlook. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, rather they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please refer to our press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website, at www.pgtindustries.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited, condensed, consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed February 19 with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

We will provide an overview of our performance for the fourth quarter and year ended December 28, 2013. After our prepared remarks, we have ample time to address any questions that you may have.

With that, let me turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger. Rod?

Thanks, Brad. Good morning, everyone. In the fourth quarter, we continued to capitalize on the improving economic conditions in housing markets, with sales coming in at $62 million, up 37.2% over fourth quarter of 2012. New construction sales led the sales growth charge. Despite a recent slowing growth trend in Florida single-family housing starts, which grew only 17% in the fourth quarter, we enjoyed 56% growth in new construction sales, our third straight quarter of 50%-plus growth. Repair and remodeling also continued solid growth of 29%; thanks in part to share gains from targeted programs. Both markets also benefited from improved market conditions in Florida, including rising home prices and reduced unemployment. For the quarter, new construction sales represented 35% of total sales, while R&R represented 65%.

In terms of our product mix, impact sales grew 40% over the fourth quarter of 2012, and represented 77% of total sales. In addition, sales of non-impact products grew 30% over prior year. For the entire year, vinyl product sales grew at a strong rate of 47% and our aluminum products grew at 36%. Vinyl sales in our Southeast and Southwest Florida markets grew 58% in 2013. These markets have traditionally been dominated by aluminum and shows vinyl continues to be more accepted in Florida. We continue to bolster our vinyl products offering with products such as our new vinyl French door launched just last month, and we are currently working on a new vinyl window platform for both our impact and non-impact products.

Returning to fourth quarter, net income was $5.3 million and adjusted net income was $5.9 million, compared to net income of $3.2 million a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA was $9.5 million or 15.3% of sales. This is a $2.6 million or 37.6% increase over the fourth quarter of 2012. For the year, adjusted EBITDA was $37.8 million, an increase of $13 million, a result of increased sales and operating leverage on our fixed cost.

Gross margin dollars increased $4.6 million to $20.6 million over the fourth quarter of 2012. This increase was driven by strong revenue growth. As a percent, however, gross margin decreased to 33.2% of sales, compared to 35.4% from the fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease in margin percentage is mainly the result of purchasing finished glass units from third-party suppliers to support sales in excess of certain current internal capacities, a shift in mix toward new construction and labor and scrap inefficiencies. This more than offset the positive impact of leverage on higher sales and the price increase announced at the end of the third quarter.

In previous quarters, we reported headwinds against our margin percentage relating to an increase in labor costs and scrap, in connection with training a substantial number of new employees to support the high growth rate. In the fourth quarter, we saw improvement in both the labor and scrap categories, not yet back to levels we strive to achieve, but approximately 180 basis points better than the third quarter of 2013. Going into 2014, we will continue to take actions to drive operational efficiencies, while adding employees in advance of anticipated growth when appropriate.

SG&A costs as a percent of sales had dropped substantially due to strong leverage. These costs declined from 26.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012 to 22.2% for the fourth quarter of 2013. Also SG&A cost declined from 27% for the full-year 2012 to 22.2% in 2013, after adjusting for cost associated with the secondary offerings, related debt refinance, and a gain on the sale of the Salisbury facility.

Our fourth quarter represented our fifth straight quarter of substantial growth in both top and bottom line. I'm proud of our sales team for helping drive this growth and gaining share. I'm proud of our operations group for persevering beyond expectations to deliver on our value proposition to our customers and increasing production. Lastly, I'm proud of our support teams for quickly adapting to the changing environment and focusing on the future to ensure we continue to dominate our core markets.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Brad, who will review the results for the fourth quarter and full-year in greater detail.

Thank you, Rod. In the fourth quarter, sales and adjusted EBITDA grew 37.2% and 37.6% respectively over prior year. As Rod mentioned, this marks the fifth straight quarters of substantial year-over-year top line and bottom-line growth. The 37% sales growth during the quarter generated a 29% increase in gross margin dollars. We also leveraged revenue growth during the quarter by reducing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales to 22.2% compared to 26.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012.

We finished the quarter with $9.5 million in adjusted EBITDA, which represents 18.3% of sales. For the full-year 2013, sales finished at $239.3 million, which represents a 37.1% increase and adjusted EBITDA came in at $37.8 million, which was an increase of 52.7% and was 15.8% of sales. Our year-ending cash balance was $30.2 million and we generated $25.7 million in cash from operations during the year.

As stated in our press release, we reported net sales of $62.0 million for the fourth quarter of 2013, a 37% increase over the prior-year. Breaking down our sales drivers for the fourth quarter compared to 2012's fourth quarter; we have WinGuard sales of $44.7 million versus $32.2 million, an increase of $12.5 million or 38.8%; vinyl non-impact sales of $8.3 million versus $6.2 million, up 33.9% over prior year; aluminum non-impact sales of $6.2 million versus $5.0 million, up 24.0%; architectural system and storefront sales of $1.4 million versus $500,000, an increase of $900,000; and PremierVue sales of $1.4 million, which was even with prior-year.

Gross margin dollars increased $4.6 million to $20.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2013. However, as a percent of sales, gross margin was 33.2% versus 35.4% in the fourth quarter of 2012. A decrease in gross margin as a percent of sales of 2.2% was driven by the cost of purchasing finished glass units from third-party suppliers which negatively impacted margins by 190 basis points, [indiscernible] (0:09:54) inefficiencies related to hiring new employees to meet increasing demand for our products, which negatively impacted margins by about 100 basis points, and the impact of the mix shift towards vinyl and new construction, which reduced margins 100 basis points. These factors were offset by leveraging our fixed costs on higher sales of 110 basis points and impact of the price increase announced at the end of the third quarter, which improved margins by 60 basis points.

As discussed in the third quarter call, we're addressing our internal capacities for glass production to reduce our reliance on outsourced finished glass units, by constructing an additional glass plant. We officially broke ground on this plant on January 9, and expect operations to commence in our new facility by the end of the third quarter of 2014. We estimate this initiative will improve our gross margins by approximately 2%.

Our average cost of aluminum was approximately $0.83 per pound during the fourth quarter, comprised of stock purchases averaging $0.80 per pound for approximately 74% of our needs and hedge purchases averaging $0.92 per pound for 26% of our needs. This compares to the fourth quarter of 2012 weighted average of $0.95 per pound. As of today, we are hedged at approximately 37% of our estimated needs through the second quarter of 2015, at an average of $0.89 per pound. The current cash price is $0.78 per pound.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.8 million, an increase of $1.9 million from the fourth quarter of 2012. As a percent of sales, SG&A cost declined from 26.4% to 22.2%. Highlights within our SG&A include, an increase of $900,000 in employee-related expenses including increased healthcare costs, an increase of $700,000 in distribution costs necessary to support the increase in sales, and an increase of $300,000 in marketing-related spending.

Interest expense was $1.0 million compared to $800,000 in the fourth quarter of 2012, and our weighted average rate for the quarter was 3.37%. The increase in interest expense results from increased debt levels in connection with our new credit agreement that we entered into during the second quarter of 2013, which funded our stock repurchase transaction and originally increased our outstanding debt balance to $80 million.

To mitigate the risk of rising interest rates, we hedged a portion of our debt. This includes a forward starting swap, which will set the LIBOR portion of our interest rate calculation and $40 million of our debt to 2.15% from Q3 of 2014 until the end of the term.

Our tax expense in the fourth quarter was $519,000, and represents a true-up of the estimate of the annual book earnings made in the second quarter, when we released our deferred tax asset valuation allowance. We no longer have an valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and accordingly in 2014 and beyond, we expect to record tax expense at an effective rate of approximately 39%.

From a cash tax perspective, we currently estimate our tax effected federal net operating loss carry forwards to be approximately $4.4 million. We had net income in the fourth quarter of $5.3 million or $0.11 per diluted share, versus $3.2 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of our prior year. After adjusting for the tax item, adjusted net income in the fourth quarter was $5.9 million or $0.12 per diluted share.

For the full-year of 2013, our adjusted net income and diluted income per share was $23.2 million, and $0.44 per share, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA was $9.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2013, versus the EBITDA of $6.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2012. This increase in adjusted EBITDA of $2.6 million is due primarily to $5.6 million, which is attributable to higher volume and $600,000 impact from the price increase. Offsetting these increases was an increase in material costs of $1.1 million due to purchase of finished glass units related to certain capacity constraints, an increase of $1.0 million for employee-related costs, a $600,000 impact of temporary inefficiencies resulting from recent hiring to meet increasing demand for our product, a negative mix shift of $600,000, and $300,000 in additional marketing expense. A reconciliation of net income to EBITDA, which I've just discussed, has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

Turning to our balance sheet, as of December 20, 2013, our net working capital, excluding cash, was $22.9 million, which decreased $1.2 million during the quarter, driven mainly by decreases in inventory. DSOs increased to 35 days at the end of the fourth quarter compared to 32 days at the end of our subsequent third quarter, due mainly to the shift towards new construction sales, which generally have longer terms. Our free cash flow for the quarter was $7.3 million, mainly driven by EBITDA, excluding non-cash items such as stock compensations of $9.6 million. We received $1.2 million in cash for working capital. We paid $2.5 million in capital additions and cash paid for interest was $800,000 for the quarter.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for summary remarks.

Thank you, Brad. 2013 was a long-awaited turnaround year for both the Florida housing market and even more so for PGT. For the full-year, we grew sales in the repair and remodeling market by 30%, which we're confident represent substantial share gain in this category. Even with the surge in volume, we were able to deliver on our value proposition with quality products, complete orders and on-time delivery.

Also our new construction sales grew 54%, in a year in which single family housing starts grew 28%, finishing at about 54,000 starts. We believe a normalized level for housing starts in Florida for our current population of approximately 19.5 million is around 110,000 starts a year. So, housing should grow – should continue into 2014, led by positive fundamentals such as increasing home values, favorable job growth, and favorable supply dynamics.

Also of note, during 2013, JLL, our majority owned partner since 2014, exited its portion in our company. The related increase in public float combined with the improved market conditions in our financial results have been favorably viewed by the market. Since, December of 2012, our average daily trading volume has increased from a 120,000 shares to 477,000 shares. Also, our stock generated 120% return over 2013. In connection with the exit by JLL, three of the four JLL affiliates, who served on our board have decided to resign their positions. The fourth member, Al Castaldi, at our request, has agreed to continue as a board member, and we look forward to his continued service.

Looking into 2014, sales to-date represent an increase of approximately 30% over the same period a year ago. Our estimate for top line sales for the first quarter is $62 million to $65 million. However, comps begin to get tougher as we head into the spring and summer months. Those sales growth in those months neared 40% in 2013.

While we achieved labor and material improvements in our fourth quarter versus our third quarter, we still have work to do in driving better flow-through on incremental sales. Our margin, though strong, will continue to be impacted by operational inefficiencies. Accordingly, our EBITDA margins will remain in the mid-teens until our labor and material inefficiencies improve and our new glass plant is complete and operational.

We'll continue to hire and train new employees in order to ramp-up full capacity and we're on track to complete the new glass plant by the end of our third quarter, which will allow us to increase our in-house glass capacities and improve our material costs.

With that, I'll conclude and I'll be happy to answer your questions. Operator, first question please? [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our first question from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James. Sam, please go ahead.

Brad, how are you?

Good. Thank you.

Three quick questions, if I might. First off, once the glass plant is up and paid for, Rod and Jeff, where do you see as your most likely use of cash flow?

Well, the glass plant, will probably going to be all in close to $14 million in the glass plant this year, maybe some timing on some capital spending that will spill over into 2015. But this year's CapEx, I'm estimating at about $18 million to $20 million, depending on timing. Once that's complete and behind us, we are and currently are actively looking for any potential acquisitions. That's definitely on the table. As we continue to grow, we feel like any kind of a product category that would be in our kind of bandwidth of expertise would make sense.

Obviously, we've got to be careful on that, because of our high margins, we do not want it to dilute our margins. So it has to be a product growth, or product offering that fits within our portfolio and our expertise that we could do well on.

Apart from that, we will have in the future additional capital needs. The current glass plant will get us to about $275 million in terms of cutting and tempering and laminating, before we run up against laminating capacity; at that point, we'll add some capital around our laminating equipment. So there's different CapEx coming over the next three to four years, and as well, as I'd mentioned earlier, we're looking at acquisitions.

You know, Sam, I just came back from the industry meetings and the industry obviously is a lot more upbeat now than it was even a year ago. There's a lot of conversation around mergers and acquisitions. I think it's kind of hard, at this point, to really put your finger on one, because that kind of, everyone kind of plays it pretty close to the vest. But we will definitely keep our eyes wide open for what happens out there as the industry changes. I would anticipate some changes in it, as we go through this year. So we might save a little bit of cash for that and we'll keep our eye on that closely.

So, share repurchase, back-burner at this point?

Yeah. I think both, share repurchase and/or a dividend type use of cash, those are back-burners until – unless we can't find a better use for that cash. Obviously, we think we can, given some changes that we feel will take place in the market over the next 12 months or so.

Yeah, the time we did our share repurchase before, it was a great buy. Obviously, we think it's still a pretty good buy. But we would look at dividends and stuff like that too.

Two other questions if I might. And I apologize if these were in the prepared remarks and I missed them. Selling prices, I know the aluminum costs were largely locked in. But with the amount of volume and the amount of productivity and scrap that you're trying to absorb, what are you doing with ASPs? And then my last question would be with respect to ERP rollout. I know that WinGuard, I think, was getting in here in the first quarter, how is that progressing?

So I guess, I'll start at the back end of that. The ERP rollout is progressing on schedule. We anticipate starting to run parallel with our current system within the month. And we'll run parallel as long as we need to, to make sure there's no hiccups along the way. We have had many rollouts of our – like for example our Eze-Breeze product offering is on the new system. And we worked out the initial kinks, if you will. And so we think the parallel and extra testing that we've got in place will generate a positive result for this ERP system. And we also expect the system to generate some efficiencies, in terms of work flow-throughs, and what not, throughout manufacturing. So, we are on track with that.

In terms of average selling price, we did take a price increase...

At the end of third quarter last year.

Yeah. So, we will look into 2014 as potentially taking another price increase. Again we're letting kind of the market dynamics dictate that, but all appear favorable at this point. And we are trying to drive higher priced items. Doors now represent more than 40% of our sales. And with the new Vinyl French Door offering that Rod had mentioned, we launched at IBS this year, we are starting to get higher average sales prices for obviously the impact products in lines of our business.

With your share, why would you wait for to see what the market would be? And why wouldn't you just be a price leader at this point, based on the volume trends?

Well. I think we most likely will be a price leader, there's not a lot of people. There were prices taken last year by some competitors. But in terms of this year, there's no one came out yet with that. But, again we expect to be a price leader, but at the same time, we are online to bring a glass plant on, and we do have overhead related to that. So, we want to continue to gain share and not price ourselves out of the market. We are on average 15% higher than our competitors currently. So, I have to be very cognizant of that.

Thank you, very helpful. Good luck for the quarter.

Thanks, Sam.

Okay. Thank you. And we'll take our next question coming from Steve Dyer from Craig-Hallum. So, Steve, please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys. Nice quarter.

Hey, Steve. How you're doing?

Good. Just want to make sure I have it correctly, I think you had said, Jeff, sales year-to-date were up 30% or so. Is that through January or is that literally to-date?

That was just to-date, through last week.

Okay.

And they were up 30%.

up 30%, yes.

Great. And trying to kind of figure out where you think gross margins may go, I know you'll get a couple of hundred basis points bump at the end of the year once the glass facility is done. Is most of your heavy hiring behind you, in other words, should we just kind of keep getting more efficient, throughout the year?

I've kind of tackled this question a number of times Steve, and I think I'll just – I think we need to keep saying the same thing until we see a difference. But when we see a 30% or north of 30% growth or around that number, we have to keep hiring, because that's pretty strong growth and we can't just kind of manpower through that with overtime and stuff like that. And so the training, we're getting better at our training I think. We're getting a little more sophisticated. But there's still a training curve and there is still – that training curve is labor efficiency and scrap efficiency.

So when the comparables starts getting more in the 15% to 20% range, I think you see the labor efficiencies get much better. As long as it stays in the 30% range, we'll take a little bit of a hit on labor inefficiencies, we'll have to keep training.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, your new construction businesses is by a factor of three or four outpacing single-family starts in Florida in the fourth quarter. Is that a function of sort of a geographic area that you guys operate in, more coastal areas or help me to kind of understand the difference there?

I think – and this is a thing more than scientific that I think what's driving some of that is a number of items. One of them being, you buy the windows for the house a few months after the start took effect. So, just driven by a little bit of the pace of starts before that, although, what we've seen so far in the first quarter would kind of go against that a little bit. But I think the biggest driver for us is our value proposition, our complete on-time delivery and short lead times. That's really important. And as builders get busier, then they need to make sure their product is there in time, because they have to hit schedules. Scheduling now is becoming more important than just, I want the cheapest price I can get for my product. So, if you can't deliver a house full of windows enclosing every opening in the house, the next trade can't come in. And so it's not getting almost complete in on-time delivery, it's getting a 100% complete on-time delivery with short lead times, so that the schedule of the builders can be met. Trades are a little harder to find right now. We lost a lot of them during the downturn. So the ability to hit scheduling becomes more critical and more important, and the big benefit we give anybody in new construction is, we're going to tell you when the price is going to be there and it's going to be and you're going to be able to move on with your job.

And just to add a little bit to that, Steve, back when we IPOed, back in 2006 and even before then, before, when we were a private company 2005, 2004, we always outperformed the housing market in those days. I don't have the exact number, but at times, [ph] we would (0:28:46) double. If the new home construction market was up 20%, we would be up 40%. That wasn't an uncommon at all theme back 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006. And so to see that now, it's not surprising us, because we've seen it before. Now maybe the magnitude this year was a lot, but we do anticipate growing our new construction business greater than the market.

Got it. Okay, congrats, guys. Thanks.

Thanks Steve.

Thank you. And we will take our next question, which comes from Rob Hansen from Deutsche Bank. So, Rob, please go ahead with your question.

Thanks. I just wanted to ask about your – the kind of growth in your sales operations. I know you hired a National Sales Manager just recently for national accounts. Are you hiring more sales people? What's the kind of outlook on that, especially given the rapid growth that you've seen here?

Yeah. We actually are. If you look year-over-year, we've actually hired 18 sales reps versus this time last year. So we're definitely laying investment into that channel on both international as well as local. And we've added layer of management in there to also kind of backup those sales reps. So, we've improved our footprint, if you will, into the foreign market and internationally, and we will continue to do that depending on demand.

Okay. And then on...

Hey, Rob, let me just add one quick thing there.

Yes.

We've also added some architect reps and we've added inside sales – I know Jeff mentioned this before, but some of that is inside sales, so that we can handle the quotes coming in and the business that comes inside, where we can physically get to a customer real quick. So we've kind of layered in everything that we need to make sure we're managing that sales portion really well.

So that, on the architect reps, does that mean you're seeing a little bit more in terms of commercial construction as well?

Yeah. A combination, architecture will spec out things, especially when you look at condos in that market, and an architecture will a lot of times be involved in a condo retrofit also. So we want to make sure that we are calling on the architect and making sure our product's in there are getting spec'd. There is not a big difference in our market with the condo market and the loads required there versus single-family construction. They take kind of the same products; it's an operational window. So we want to make sure that we get in there early. Those projects tend to be – we might be talking to an architect now on a project that will come out of the ground in 2015 or 2016.

Got it. Okay. And then kind of, I've realized that the facility won't be – the new facility won't be operational until late 2014. When does that mean that you start hiring people to kind of staff-up and train? Like, how early in the process do you start that?

I talked about it now.

Yeah, we're actually starting to hire now. We're running 24/7 shift on our current glass facility. And what we'll do is, we'll take both experienced and new hires and salt that in into the new facility. So we are hiring now for the 24/7 still. And once that's online, we'll hire a full staff for that facility as well, at least by July. It takes a good couple of months for people to get up to speed on that – on the equipment.

And so there's – you're not expecting any additional, I guess, costs? And then, I guess, how does that work in terms of the cost in the meantime here until – I mean, how much of a drag is that?

Well, it's not really a drag, yet, because again, we hire also because of attrition. We do have quite a bit of attrition. It's the training piece that we want to make sure we get in and get ahead of the curve, if you will. So in terms of the drag, it's all direct labor, and it really decreases on overtime as well. So in other words, instead of working a 10 hour shift, now they're working 8 hour. So there is inherent offsettings in that. The only cost, if you will, that's hard would be healthcare-related benefit costs, and there's usually about a 90 day waiting period there for healthcare anyway. So if we hire somebody in June, that's not hitting me until the end of the third quarter. So it's not a big drag. It's not something that, I think, I would build into any kind of a model at this point, because again, we do anticipate all that in the guidance we give.

Yeah, the drag on labor is really not much. The drag that we'll see is, we'll have to purchase glass from the outside. We'll have to continue doing that until the plan is operational. So that's where – really where you see the drag.

All right. Got it. I'll appreciate it. One last quick one is just, the WinGuard gross margin during the quarter, what was that?

40%.

40%. All right, thank you very much.

You bet.

Okay. Thank you and our next question comes from Michael Dahl from Credit Suisse. So Michael, please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks, guys. I wanted to drill down on the margins a bit more. When – I think in the prepared remarks, you noted that price added 60 basis points. I guess relative to the increase that you put through, do you think there is still more benefit to come from that in 1Q, or what's kind of – what's the limiting factor there?

Well, the 60 basis points, Michael, was a function of timing in the fourth quarter. We actually announced that price increase towards the end of September, and considering lead times and whatnot, we didn't really see that impact in towards the back half of the fourth quarter. So, yes, there is a full quarter's worth of impact that you'll see in the first quarter, and if you will, a pretty good estimate would be, we've probably got half a quarter's worth in the fourth quarter.

Okay. Great. That's helpful. And then on the mix issue, I guess could you give us a sense of kind of the progress you've made on lifting the vinyl margins? What's the differential today and what's the thought process around for their progress for 2014?

Yeah, I think the mix issue in terms of the margin changing, really, obviously, with the door coming out, that helped the product portfolio in terms of its margins. But in terms of our core vinyl products as they stand, we are going to be limited on how we increase those margins with efficiencies until we redesign the product. As I think was mentioned, we're actually looking at redesigning our vinyl platform, both impact and non-impact, with just that in mind.

We'll be off one – the goal is to be off a single platform, consolidate some suppliers, take cost out of the system, streamline the line, and therefore improve margins. That's all in progress. That will be a 2015 type event – end of 2014, beginning of 2015 type of event. And until then, our vinyl margins, they're going to stay about the same, absent any kind of change in pricing.

Okay. Thank you. And I guess one final one, I think it's great to see the sales outpacing the overall new construction market to the degree that they are and actually seem to be still accelerating. I was wondering if you had a sense of breaking it down a little further, what the impact resistant market sales were in 2014 – I mean sorry in 2013? [indiscernible]

(0:36:55).

Yeah, I guess the whole market that you would be more comparable with.

So I think the question is, on the new construction starts, has it been geared more towards the impact-resistant market, and that's why our increase has been more [ph] extended (0:37:18).

You got the sales for the just the new construction impact [indiscernible] (0:37:23)?

55%.

So, our new construction sales, impact only, was 55% up.

That's correct.

That's a tough question. I think people are still putting in shutters. I don't think the penetration play that – again, we initially went public on that whole penetration into the shutter market. I don't think we've seen that yet at all, Michael. I think that comes with education and awareness and unfortunately some storm activity. And so, if you recall, shutters represent, in 2006, probably 80% of that market. Now, maybe they're 70%, maybe there's been some penetration over nine years, but not much. So, we think there's still a lot of growth left in the shutter penetration area in those markets.

Okay. So, even against your direct peers on impact resistant products, you think you're far above what the market growth has been there?

Yes, yes.

Yes, okay. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you. And our next question comes from Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital Markets. Robert, please go ahead.

Hi. This is actually Desi filling in for Bob. Just first question on, SG&A margin performance was very strong in 2013 and it looks like amortization expense is expected to drop pretty significantly in 2014. How should we think about the trajectory of SG&A spending over the next year if the housing recovery in Florida continues?

Well, there is plenty of leverage left in SG&A. You picked up on a good point, amortization does drop in the first quarter, Brad, a $1 million?

Yeah. We're going to record $500,000 of amortization in the first quarter, compared to $1.5 million in both the first quarter of last year and the fourth quarter of last year, and then that amortization goes away in the second quarter. I think the – a good way to look at SG&A is, it probably runs about 10% to 15%, maybe 15% now, variable, our transportation costs are in SG&A as an example. Obviously, our warranty costs and commissions, those kinds of things are variable. And as a reminder, our fourth quarter of last year is a better reflection of our level of hiring that we did through the year to support the increased sales relative to the first quarter. So sequentially, that may be a better comparison than year-over-year, with this growth that we've experienced.

Got it. Thanks. And then, getting back to the topic of the addition of the sales reps that you guys talked about, are there certain states outside of Florida that you're actively targeting for expansion, you have a timeline in mind?

There is no specific states. We look at the coastline, any place that impact code is in place and any place that we can, kind of, drive impact code, we've got a couple of folks here that's spend most of their time dealing with code and code enforcement, making sure we're teaching people. So we naturally expand into those areas. When we look at our – and when we look internally at what our motivational driving force is, we want to own our backyard. Florida is coming back strong. We're seeing a lot of new construction growth. We're seeing a lot of remodeling growth, and everyone wants to come back and play. Back in 2005 and 2006, I think every window company wanted to have a pretty good presence in Florida. I don't know if it's quite to that point yet, but everyone sees the growth in Florida, and it looks like a very attractive place to be. And we'd like to put fences around our customers and make sure that we kind of are the bully in the backyard, and that's what we want to be, and that's really what we're focused on. That, international, and then expanding along the coastlines, and then we've talked in the past about our relationship with our Eze-Breeze product line and Menards and the Midwest and places like that, where it's a little bit opportunistic. We saw a lot of interest at the International Builders' Show for our product, particularly in our doors. We think there is some markets that maybe attractive for them. But they are markets that are pretty far away and we want to kind of control our backyard, before we go after those markets.

We've also had good success with the broker reps as well in the out of state market.

Got it. Thanks. That's helpful.

Okay. Thank you. And we'll take our final question coming from Jeremy Hamblin from Dougherty & Company. Jeremy, please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I wanted to first just clarify a couple of things from your prepared remarks. One, your laminating capacity is currently at what level?

Our laminating capacity is – we could probably get up to about $275 million, $280 million in sales, before we actually add a laminating line to the business.

Right. And then you also had in your prepared remarks some commentary or color around the flow of gross margins. As we think about it in the context for 2014, would you mind just restating that for me?

Yeah. I think if you look at the first quarter, what I was saying given the growth we still are experiencing and the operational inefficiencies we're working through, even though we did improve, as Rod had mentioned, about 180 basis points versus Q3 into Q4, we'll still run into some inefficiencies as we continue to hire. Our scrap is not where we wanted it to be, and know it could be. So we will still fall in that mid-teen level for EBITDA type margins until one, I guess, the glass plant comes online, which we've indicated will be about two percentage points, Brad, positive benefit to the gross margin. And as we continue to train our folks, I do expect if everything runs right, us to improve margins – EBITDA margins over the year. In other words, it's going to all come at the end of the third quarter or beginning of the fourth quarter. I do expect our labor to continue to improve. We've demonstrated that and I think you'll see that. I don't know if you'll see it necessarily right out of the gate in the first quarter, but, again, I think you'll see as the year progresses, we slowly start ratcheting up our results on the margin line.

Great. And then, in terms of sales flow and the types of projects that you guys have been going after, are you seeing more opportunities in, let's say, condo or commercial projects that potentially have higher sales values? Have you been participating at all in those types of deals?

Yeah. We participate in those types of deals. The big surge for 2013 was single-family residential. I mean, that's where the market was. Multi-family started to come back as is commercial, but traditionally those trail single-family. So, we will start and have participated in those. Internationally, I know we signed a couple of good deals, condo projects as well. So, Brad, do you want to add anything?

Yeah. And I had talked a little bit earlier about the architect reps that we have out there now, they spend their day calling on architects and looking at jobs and looking at specs and some of those or a lot of those are new construction related, so they may be coming out of the ground quite a ways in the future. Some of those are replacements of existing products, that's a little bit shorter timeline. So, we expect to be a little bit larger player in the condo market, whether it'd be new construction or repair and replacement.

Great. And then, just in the context of the color you provided on quarter-to-date sales, can you just provide additional color around whether it's been driven more by new construction or the R&R business, in terms, is the split similar to what you saw in Q4?

No. We don't really have a mechanism that tracks that to be able to give that to you. We get that at every quarter-end, basically when we determine exactly the buckets that we ended up growing the most in. So, no, I can't provide that.

And then, coming back to kind of pricing power that you have and you have been seeing some negative drag from your vinyl product mix increasing. Do you think that you have more pricing power? I know part of that has been an educational process for customers and distributors. But do you feel like – are you more likely to take price in 2014 on the vinyl side of the business as opposed to overall?

You know, I don't know that I can give you a good answer on that. I think, as we look at 2014 and we see it starting out a little bit like 2013 was, we're going to make sure that we maintain market share. Right now, it's so important as things grow to – it's easier to maintain market share than it is to go out and try to get it back, if you lose some of it. So, we'll look at our pricing. We'll look at market share. We'll look at the programs we're running. We'll look at the redesign of our vinyl lines and where that brings us in. And one of the things we won't do is we won't get greedy in the middle of the year and say, let's take a vinyl increase so we can increase margins on vinyl, and then next year, we introduce some new product line that we're a little more efficient on and we can drop it back down, that would not be a fair thing to do to our customers.

So, we'll be pretty thoughtful about how we do it. But at this point, we would focus on market share a lot.

And then last thing, in terms of the hiring a new – the rate of hiring slowed, just touching Q4 from where it had been in the prior two quarters. What have you been seeing in terms of retention rates in the staff? Are you – Is it getting harder to find new hires, and the quality of hires, is that any different? I mean that, you guys actually made significant progress on labor and scrap inefficiencies in the quarter. So I'm guessing maybe the answer is no, but can you speak to retention rates?

Yeah. I don't know that I can give you an exact retention rate. It is a little bit difficult to hire and retain where we are at. This is not a manufacturing area. So we're having to – we're having to be very careful as we screen people and when we hire people, about what their background is and how comfortable they are, spending a day working on a factory floor. So, that's one of the things we look at pretty closely. But it typically is not a manufacturing area. So we're adding additional things to make sure that we're screening the people correctly. We're bringing in the right people and we're offering a pretty competitive package from pay benefits and from a training standpoint.

And we do get a lot of that, because unemployment in Florida is still 6.2% I think, the last thing I saw. So, we still do get a lot of applicants in; like Rod said, it's a matter of screening those and being more picky of who we hire.

And we are viewed – in this community, we are viewed as an employee of choice – employer of choice. So, finding employees is not terribly difficult to do.

Great. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thanks, Jeremy.

Okay. Thank you. And that appears, this concludes our Q&A session. So, I would now like to turn it over to Mr. Bradley West for concluding remarks.

Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to speaking to you again next quarter. If you have any questions, please call me. Have a good day.

Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference. You may now disconnect. And have a great day.