corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by and welcome to the PGT


Incorporated First Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. Currently all participants are in a listen-


only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that


time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the program over to our speaker Mr. Brad West. Sir, please go ahead.


Company Representative


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s first quarter 2010 conference call.


I am Brad West, Corporate Controller and I am joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and


CEO, as well as Jeff Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. Rob and Jeff will represent PGT


in this morning’s call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to


risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking


statements. Please refer to the May 5 press release, our most recent Form 10-K and other


documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligations to publicly update or revise any


forward-looking statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheet and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and adjusted information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for


evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can


be found in our Form 8-K filed May 5 with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not


intended to replace the presentation our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we


believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the


comparison of past and present performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the first quarter, then Jeff will


discuss our results in more detail. After the prepared remarks, they will take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Brad. Good morning, everyone. 2010 began with a brighter outlook than the past two


years. Housing appears to be recovering and for the first time in four years, total starts in our core


market were up 39% in the first quarter compared to last year. For the same comparable period,


single family starts were up 55%. Single family starts also increased 13%, when compared to the


fourth quarter of 2009. We welcome this increase in starts. However, we believe they were inflated


somewhat by the tax incentives, which motivated home buyers to purchase new homes, particularly


first time home buyers. Though these buyers typically buy at the lower end of the construction


market, we are encouraged by the increased activity and anticipate a carryover into the broader


and new construction market.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Other positive signs suggesting the beginning of a recovery include a 24% increase in existing


home sales, compared to the prior year quarter in our primary market of Florida and a decrease in


inventory levels compared to the prior year in certain primary market cities including 28% in Miami


and 12% in TAMPA. Home prices had their first year-over-year increase since December 2006.


However, housing start levels are still much lower than what we would expect in a normal cycle and


many negative conditions still remain, such as pending foreclosures, high unemployment, which is


still around 10% nationally and over 12% in Florida. As a result, we continue to operate in a market,


whose return to normalcy is still quite unpredictable.


Sales in the first quarter decreased only 2% when compared to the first quarter of 2009. This is a


combination of a decline in sales into the new construction market of 26%, mostly offset by an


increase in sales into our R&R market of 11%. As a percentage of total sales for the first quarter of


2010, R&R sales accounted for 77% and new construction sales accounted for 23% of sales. This


compares to the first quarter of 2009 when R&R sales accounted for 69% and new construction


represented 31%. The increase in R&R sales is due mainly to the success of our non-impact vinyl


replacement product, SpectraGuard launched in 2009.


Sales for those products, which represented the main driver of our growth, increased 1.9 million


year-over-year as we increased our distribution network in targeted states outside Florida. This


resulted in an increase in our other state sales to 7.8 million in the first quarter, up 32% from a year


ago and represents 19% of our sales for the quarter.


In previous calls, I mentioned some new products we recently launched. At this time, I would like to


update you on those products. Sales of our new sliding glass door launched last October were 2.8,


million up from 1.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 and continues to exceed our expectations.


Our customers are thrilled with the improved aesthetics, clean design, ease of installation and the


many new features the door offers. This product line also includes a high performance sliding glass


door. While we expect this new sliding glass door to eventually replace certain of our existing


sliding glass door product sales, we think its new design and features put us at the forefront of


technology currently in the marketplace and will drive incremental sales well into the future.


Sales of our new PremierVue series totaled 600,000 in the first quarter. PremierVue is the high end


energy efficient impact vinyl line acquired last summer. These products provide long-term energy


and structural benefits by qualifying homeowners for the government’s energy tax credits and


meeting structural requirements of Miami-Dade for impact protection. This product line was


developed specifically for the hurricane protection market and combines some of the highest


structural ratings in the industry with excellent energy efficiency.


Lastly, we announced in a recent press release that we have developed an R-5 impact window, the


first in our industry, further strengthening our leadership position in the impact market. R-5 windows


have been promoted by the Department of Energy for volume purchases in an effort to bring the


costs down on these highly energy efficient products. We believe this product is well positioned to


take advantage of the energy codes expected in the future.


Comparing the first quarter to the fourth quarter of 2009, sales increased 4.5 million driven by an


increase in both our new construction and repair and remodeling market. Gross margin increased


2.3 million from the fourth quarter due mainly to the increase in sales and the restructuring costs


taken in the fourth quarter. SG&A costs decreased 500,000 compared to the fourth quarter as a


result of increased fuel costs, as well as expenses related to the rights offering and debt


amendment. EBITDA increased to 3.4 million in the first quarter of 2010, the increase in EBITDA


was driven by higher sales offset somewhat by a shift in mix toward our lower margin vinyl non-


impact products.


Net loss was 2.1 million in the first quarter compared to a profit of 300,000 in the fourth quarter of


2009. As a reminder, we recorded a tax benefit of 5.4 million in that quarter. Net loss per diluted