corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to PGT, Incorporated First Quarter 2011


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will


conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


I would now like to introduce, Mr. Brad West, Corporate Controller. You may begin.


Brad West, Corporate Controller


Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s first quarter 2011 conference call. I’m Brad


West, Corporate Controller, and I am joined by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO; and Jeff


Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. Rod and Jeff will represent PGT on this morning’s


call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995.


These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty.


Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please


refer to the May 5 press release, our most recent Form 10-K and other documents filed with the


SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are, the unaudited consolidated balance sheet and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and adjusted information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for


evaluating performance internally.


A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our Form 8-K filed May 5


with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of


financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe these non-GAAP measurements


provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present


performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the first quarter. Then, Jeff,


will discuss our results in more detail. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks Brad and good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to report that we began 2011 with growth


in our Florida market. Sales increased $2.6 million or 7.9% compared to prior year. WinGuard sales


increased by $1.6 million or 6.8% with vinyl WinGuard sales up $1.3 million or 43.2% and our new


PremierVue line of high-end vinyl impact products contributing $500,000 in additional sales.


Our vinyl non-impact product, SpectraGuard, performed well with an increase in sales of $700,000.


This growth in our Florida market was largely driven by efforts concentrated from our change in
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


market strategy. At the end of 2010, we decided to focus our resources on our core Florida market


and with these results it appears our strategy change is well underway.


The growth in Florida sales was largely offset by a decrease in our out-of-state sales of $1.9 million


or 32.3% driven by a decrease in vinyl sales of $1.1 million and curtain wall revenue down


$500,000. In addition, international sales decreased $600,000 for the quarter. We are addressing


this decrease in international sales by adding additional resources to further expand our presence.


We continue to believe there is a strong international market for both our impact and non-impact


products. We also experienced an inconsistent economic and housing recovery with January and


February sales lower than prior year, but were encouraged to see March sales increase over prior


year. Excluding curtain wall revenues, sales in the first quarter were slightly up, 1.6%, led by an


increase into the new construction market, which increased 15% over a year ago.


Sales into the R&R market decreased 3% as compared to first quarter 2010. As a percentage of


total sales for the first quarter of 2011, R&R sales accounted for 74% and new construction sales


accounted for 26% of sales.


Comparing our first quarter to the prior year first quarter, our adjusted gross margin was 25.8%


versus a gross margin of 27.9% in 2010. Adjusted gross margin decreased due to an increase in


the cost of aluminum, which is up 6% over prior year, an increase in other materials including glass,


startup costs associated with our new vinyl door and PremierVue and temporary operating


inefficiencies related to our plant consolidation.


SG&A costs adjusted for the 2011 consolidation charges increased $600,000 due mainly to


increase in selling and marketing expenses of $600,000 and a $500,000 increase in non-cash stock


compensation expense. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in depreciation


expense of $300,000. Driven by our consolidation charges of $2.6 million, we recorded a net loss of


$5.8 million for the first quarter of 2011. Our adjusted net loss was $3.2 million compared to a net


loss of $2.1 million in the first quarter of 2010.


Adjusted EBITDA was $1.5 million in the first quarter of 2011, which is down from adjusted EBITDA


of $3.4 million from prior year. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA was driven mainly by an increase


in the cost of materials, temporary operating inefficiencies related to our plant consolidation as well


as the increase in selling, marketing and stock compensation expenses just described.


Within our core market, total housing starts were down 8%. Multi-family starts were up 68% and


single family starts decreased 21% compared to a year ago. Market conditions remain difficult and


are not expected to turn around significantly in 2011.


During the fourth quarter of 2010, we announced the decision to consolidate our North Carolina


operations into our Florida facility. The consolidation, while disruptive in the short-term, will


enhance our long-term competitiveness and improve efficiencies.


During the first quarter, we filled approximately 250 new positions and have retained the new hires


at a 90% rate. We will continue to fill positions throughout this year as we complete our


consolidation. Transitioning to a centralized location will optimize our manufacturing capacity and


logistics, positioning PGT to be a stronger company with focus on growing our share within our core


wind-borne debris market areas.


With that, I will turn the call over to Jeff who will review the results for the quarter in greater detail.