corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to your PGT Incorporated Third Quarter


2010 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Later, we


will conduct a question-and-answer session, which instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder, today’s conference is being recorded.


And now I’d like to introduce your host for today Brad West.


Company Representative


Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s third quarter 2010 conference call. I am Brad


West, Corporate Controller and I am joined by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO; and Jeff


Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. Rod and Jeff will represent PGT on this morning’s


call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995.


These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty.


Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please


refer to our November 3 press release and our most recent Form 10-K and other documents filed


with the SEC. We undertake no obligations to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section at our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for


evaluating performance internally.


A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our Form 8-K filed


November 3 with the SEC.


These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in


accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional


information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the third quarter, then Jeff will


discuss our results in more detail. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Brad. Good morning, everyone. I’m pleased to report that for the second straight quarter,


we recorded year-over-year sales growth, as sales in the third quarter increased 13.4% compared


to the third quarter of 2009.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Our growth was driven by our Florida sales up 6 million or 18.5% compared to prior year. We


experienced increased sales in our WinGuard aluminum and Vinyl products, high-end PremierVue


line and in our non-impact vinyl products.


WinGuard sales increased by 3.7 million or 14% due to both the success of our new aluminum door


launched last fall and an increase in vinyl WinGuard sales where many replacement customers


took advantage of tax credits offered.


Vinyl WinGuard sales into Florida increased to 1.3 million, including 600,000 in sales into the


southern part of Florida. Our new PremierVue line of high-end vinyl impact products contributed an


additional 800,000 in sales compared to Q3 2009. Finally, a version of our new vinyl non-impact


product, SpectraGuard, specifically designed for the Florida market and launched last year


contributed 700,000 in additional sales. This growth was partially offset by a decrease in our out-of-


state sales of 400,000 or 6% driven by decreases in curtain wall sales and vinyl sales each down


200,000. Our international sales were essentially flat for the quarter.


Sales into the R&R market increased 19% over a year ago, while sales into the new construction


market were flat. As a percentage of total sales for the third quarter of 2010, R&R sales accounted


for 75%, and new construction sales accounted for 25% of sales. Comparing our third quarter to the


prior year third quarter, net sales increased 5.6 million or 13.4%, driven by an increase in our repair


and remodeling markets in Florida.


Gross margin increased 3.7 million from last year, due mainly to our increase in sales and a


decrease in restructuring charges of 500,000. As a percentage of sales, gross margin was 30.9%


versus an adjusted gross margin of 27.4%.


SG&A costs adjusted for the 2009 restructuring charges increased 1.3 million, due mainly to an


increase of 618,000 in non-cash stock compensation expense and other compensation expense of


approximately 426,000. EBITDA was 4.7 million in the third quarter of 2010, which is up from


adjusted EBITDA of 3.2 million from prior year. The increase in adjusted EBITDA was driven mainly


by the increase in sales. We recorded a net loss of 207,000 in the third quarter, compared to an


adjusted net loss of 2.5 million in the third quarter of 2009.


Within our core market, total housing starts were up 15% driven by increases in multi-family starts.


Single-family starts were essentially flat compared to a year ago. Market conditions remained


difficult, but overall housing starts and permits appear to have reached a bottom and are starting to


show signs of life.


In mid October, we officially celebrated our 30th anniversary. We have a long history of providing


superior customer service and high quality products over that time. And we were recently


recognized with Window & Door’s 2010 Crystal achievement award for most innovative door. This


award was for our new aluminum impact sliding glass door launched last fall. Our door was


selected by a panel of judges representing all segments of the window and door industry. It was the


door’s high performance and versatility that stood out for the judges.


Many PGT employees were involved in this new product, and this award is a testament to the


ability and dedication of our employees during these difficult market conditions to address long-term


goals while achieving short-term objectives.


With that, I will turn the call over to Jeff who will review the results for the quarter in greater detail.