Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad West — Vice President & Controller, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PGT, Inc.
Collin A. Verron — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Michael G. Dahl — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Sam J. Darkatsh — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Steve L. Dyer — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Rob G. Hansen — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, will we conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions following at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.

Now, I'll turn the conference over to your host, Brad West, Vice President and Controller. Please begin.

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to PGT's quarterly investor conference call. I'm Brad West, Corporate Controller and Vice President, and I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, Chairman and CEO; and Jeff Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. This morning, we are pleased to provide an update on our first quarter and our outlook for 2014. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release issued yesterday.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies, and market outlook. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, rather they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in our forward-looking statements.

Please refer to our press release and our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website, at www.pgtindustries.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited, condensed, consolidated balance sheet and statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which is quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

We will provide an overview of our performance for the first quarter of 2014, and after our prepared remarks, we have ample time to address any questions that you may have.

With that, let me turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger. Rod?

Thanks, Brad, and good morning, everyone. For those of you who might be new to our story, we are the premier impact-resistant window and door company. We serve mainly the Florida market with approximately 88% of our sales coming from our core markets.

While starts in the first quarter were less than expected, industry forecasts haven't changed and continue to call for 71,000 starts or a 30% increase during 2014. We are well positioned to service this demand and expect to continue to outperform this growth.

We also deliver industry-leading margins and significant free cash flow. We continue to invest our cash into our infrastructure to support our growth by expanding our facility footprint with an additional 96,000 square foot building, and we've added over 165 new employees year-to-date.

During the first quarter of 2014, our top-line growth continued with sales coming in at $62.7 million, up $13.2 million or 26.6% over the first quarter of 2013. This marks our highest first quarter sales since 2007, and the sixth straight quarter of at least 25% year-over-year growth. This strong top-line growth was primarily driven by our new construction sales which continues to outpace the Florida housing market, and by marketing programs focusing on our WinGuard products.

New construction sales grew $7.8 million or 54.1% over first quarter of 2013, driving a shift in our mix with new construction sales now representing 35% of total sales, up from 29% in first quarter of 2013. During the first quarter, Florida single-family housing starts were up 1% over the first quarter of last year. However, starts in the southern Florida coastal counties which make up our core market and contain a higher percentage of homes priced above entry level, have increased approximately 10% over prior year. Additionally, during the first quarter, we saw growth in the repair and remodel market with sales up $5.4 million or 15.3% over the same period last year.

Macroeconomic conditions have continued to improve in our core markets with overall population increasing, new home inventory at low levels, and existing housing prices appreciating. These conditions provide a positive outlook for growth in both our new construction and repair and remodeling sales.

Gross margin was $19.8 million in the first quarter of 2014, an increase of $2.2 million in gross margin dollars or 12.6% from the first quarter of 2013. However, as a percent of sales, gross margin was 31.5%, a decrease of 3.9% from the 35.4% over the first quarter of last year. We continue to experience pressure on our gross margin due to an increase in material costs from purchasing finished glasses to support strong sales growth, and operational inefficiencies in both labor and scrap, resulting from hiring and training our new employees.

Additionally, in order to gain share in both the new construction and repair and remodel markets, we utilized aggressive pricing on certain large projects. These new revenue streams which caused us to buy additional outside glass will help increase volume for a new glass facility coming online at the end of the third quarter. Also, while margins will be impacted in the short term, we will solidify these relationships with our value proposition for long-term gains.

At PGT, we pride ourselves in our exceptional customer service before, during, and after the sale. As market demand increases, tight project schedules become increasingly important, and our customers in both the new construction and repair and remodel market embrace the importance of our value proposition and the consistent quality and on-time delivery we provide.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales declined to 21.3%, compared to 26.3% in the first quarter of 2013 as we continue to experience strong leverage in this category and a reduction of $1.2 million in amortization expense compared to 2013.

During the quarter, we generated net income of $3.4 million compared to net income adjusted for gain on the sale of the Salisbury plant and related tax impact of $3.2 million in the first quarter of 2013. EBITDA came in at $7.6 million or 12.2% of sales, up $400,000 over prior year, after adjusting for the gain. We expect our second quarter sales to continue to benefit from our go-to-market strategy as we are currently estimating a year-over-year increase of approximately 21% to 24%.

With that, I'll turn the call back to Brad, who will review the results for the first quarter in greater detail.

Thank you, Rod. In the first quarter, sales grew 26.6% over prior year, and we generated a 12.6% increase in gross margin dollars. We leveraged revenue growth during the quarter to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales to 21.3% compared to 26.3% in the first quarter of 2013, and finished the quarter with EBITDA of $7.6 million, representing 12.2% of sales.

Our cash ending balance for the quarter was $30.8 million, and we generated $3.5 million in cash from operations. As stated in our press release, we reported net sales of $62.7 million for the first quarter of 2014. Breaking down our sales drivers compared to 2013's first quarter, we have WinGuard sales of $45.0 million versus $35.4 million, an increase of $9.6 million or 27.2%; vinyl non-impact sales of $5.2 million versus $3.9 million, up 33.3% over prior year; aluminum non-impact sales of $6.8 million versus $5.3 million, up 28.3%; architectural system and storefront sales of $1.2 million versus $800,000, an increase of 50% and Eze-Breeze sales of $2.7 million versus $2.4 million, an increase of 12.5% over prior year.

Gross margin dollars increased $2.2 million to $19.8 million for the first quarter of 2014. However, as a percent of sales, gross margin was 31.5% versus 35.4% in the four quarter of 2013. A decrease in gross margin as a percent of sales was 3.9%, and was driven by the negative impact of large project pricing in order to gain share, as well as a shift in mix towards new construction combined to reduce margins 210 basis points. The cost of purchasing finished glass units from our third-party supplier to meet the demand from sales growth negatively impacted margin by 170 basis points.

Employee-related costs included increased health insurance cost of over 57%, negatively impacted margins by 130 basis points. And operational inefficiencies related to training and hiring new employees negatively impacted margins by 100 basis points. These factors were offset by leveraging our fixed costs on higher sales of 100 basis points and the impact of the price increase announced at the end of the third quarter 2013, which improved margins by 120 basis points.

As we've discussed in previous calls, we are addressing our internal capacity constraints for glass processing to reduce our reliance on outsourced finished glass units, by constructing an additional glass processing plant neighboring our current campus. We are on track to commence operations in our new facility near the end of the third quarter 2014, and we estimate this initiative will improve our gross margin by approximately 2%.

Our average cost of aluminum was approximately $0.84 per pound during the quarter, and comprised of stock purchases averaging $0.77 per pound for 54% of our needs and hedge purchases averaging $0.91 per pound for approximately 46% of our needs. This compares to the first quarter of 2013's weighted average of $0.92 per pound.

As of today, we are hedged at approximately 36% of our estimated needs through the second quarter of 2015, at an average of $0.88 per pound. The cash price as of today is approximately $0.79 per pound. During the quarter, some of our aluminum hedge contracts became ineffective for accounting purposes and as these contracts settled there, we reported another expense.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $13.4 million, it's an increase of $400,000 from the fourth quarter of 2013. As a percent of sales, SG&A cost declined from 26.3% to 21.3%. Highlights within our SG&A include an increase of $900,000 in selling activities consistent with higher sales, an increase of $700,000 in employee-related costs including an increase in healthcare costs; and these items were offset by a decrease in amortization expense of $1.2 million.

Additionally, first quarter SG&A cost included $700,000 in customer-related selling expenses and $400,000 in amortization expense, which will not repeat in future quarters in 2014. Interest expense was $900,000 compared to $800,000 in the first quarter of 2013 and our weighted average rate for the quarter was 3.16%. This slight increase in interest expense results from increased debt levels in connection with the new credit agreement that we entered into in 2013. This increase expense is partially offset by decreased interest rates from the new agreement and increased deferred financing costs.

To mitigate the risk of rising interest rates, we hedged a portion of our debt. This includes a forward-starting swap, which will set the LIBOR portion of our interest rate calculation on $40 million of our debt at 2.15% beginning in September of 2014 until the end of the term.

Our tax expense in the first quarter was $2.0 million and represents an effective income tax rate of 37.0%, which is lower than the statutory rate of 38.8%. This rate is lower than the statutory rate due mainly to the estimated impact of the Section 199 manufacturing deduction. As a reminder, we are expecting to become a cash tax payer during 2014. We had net income in the first quarter of $3.4 million or $0.07 per diluted share versus $3.2 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the first quarter of our prior year, after adjusting for the gain on sale of the Salisbury plant and the related tax impact.

EBITDA was $7.6 million for the first quarter of 2014 versus adjusted EBITDA of $7.2 million for the first quarter 2013. This increase of $400,000 was due primarily to $4.0 million, $4 million attributable higher volume and $1.2 million resulting from the impact of our price increase. Offsetting these factors was large project pricing as well as the shift in mix towards new construction of $1.5 million, an increase of $1.5 million for employee-related costs, an increase in material costs of $1.1 million due to the purchase of finished glass units and the $700,000 impact of operational efficiencies resulting from recent higher increased demand for our product. A reconciliation of net income to EBITDA, which I've just discussed, has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

Turning to our balance sheet, as of March 29, 2014, our net working capital excluding cash, deferred income taxes, and current debt, was $25.1 million, which increased $2.3 million during the quarter, driven mainly by increases in AR and inventory to support sales growth.

DSOs decreased to 32 days at the end of the first quarter compared to 35 days at the end of our subsequent quarter, and in line with 32 days at the end of first quarter 2013. Inventory turns increased to 11.8 from 11.4 at the end of our subsequent quarter, and has increased significantly from the 10.0 at the end of first quarter 2013. This improvement is primarily due to managing our lead times on raw materials purchased from our suppliers and holding inventory in check as sales grow.

Our free cash flow for the quarter was $1.9 million, mainly driven by EBITDA, excluding non-cash items such as stock compensations of $8.1 million offset by an increase in working capital of $2.3 million due to higher sales demand. We also paid $3.2 million in capital additions, mainly associated with our glass plant expansion and cash paid for interest was $700,000.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Jeff for some summary remarks.

Thanks, Brad. As Rod stated above, this marks our highest first quarter sales increase since 2007 and the sixth straight quarterly increase of at least 25% year-over-year growth. To keep up with this demand for our products, we've added over 165 employees this year and over 400 employees in 2013. Currently, our base is 1,582 employees.

The last time our sales run rate was at this level, we had approximately $2,200 employees, which shows the success of our restructuring effort during the downturn. We are working hard to get our new folks up to speed, but do anticipate continued inefficiencies in the second quarter as we continue to hire employees to meet the estimated 21% to 24% increase in sales. We have implemented specific initiatives towards training our new employees, in both production, consistency, and quality. We will continue to monitor this progress through various performance management practices and metrics.

Also, our new construction sales grew 54.1%, which significantly outpaced the Florida housing market as we continue to invest in our customer relationships and PGT brand. We believe the normalized housing starts in Florida for our current population of approximately $19.5 million is around 110,000 starts a year. The long-term outlook is very positive. Our company generates strong free cash flow as a result of our higher than average industry margins and our low maintenance capital requirements.

In 2013, when excluding working capital increases necessary for higher sales, we generated free cash flow of approximately $27 million. This year, we will generate enough cash flow to fund our entire construction of our new glass plant operation. Our cash flow gives us the opportunity to invest in brands, expand operations when appropriate and absorb market fluctuations when they occur.

Looking into the second quarter, we continue to see double-digit growth. We expect to capitalize on improving economic conditions especially in Florida, our core market, as well as capitalize on investment in consumer promotions and advertisings.

In fact, sales in April represent an increase of approximately 24% over the same period a year ago. Based off current orders and our backlog, our estimated top-line sales for the second quarter is a range of $76 million to $78 million, compared to top-line sales of $62.8 million in the second quarter of last year. We have consistently outperformed our market, and we will continue to focus on taking share, improving operational efficiencies and seeking growth opportunities to grow the footprint within the window and door industry.

In the short-term, EBITDA margins will likely remain in the mid-teens and as we will see some overflow from our first quarter large project pricing into the second quarter, and we continue to address inefficiencies in labor and material usage.

Lastly, we are excited about the opportunities of our new glass plant we bring as it becomes operational at the end of the third quarter of 2014. This will both improve margins on incremental sales and help secure our customers and better serve them into the future.

With that, I'll conclude and we'll be happy to answer your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question is from Robert Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. This is Collin filling in for Bob. Thanks for taking my question. After the addition of the new glass plant this year, you should be able to produce about $280 million in revenue, which is in line with current consensus estimates this year. So how do you think about the need for additional capacity after the current plant is finished in light of expectation going for continued growth in Florida housing starts?

Well, thanks for the question. As we look at future capacity and potential constraint needs, within the glass facility itself, what we've done by adding tempering and cutting capacity, we feel we can meet the tempering and cutting need up to about approximately $320 million, $330 million or so in sales. The next kind of constraint we run into when we value-add to glass is in laminating and insulating. So what we'll do most likely given our sales run rate by the fourth quarter, first quarter next year, we will start adding equipment associated with those two value-adding processes.

And what we did strategically was build that glass plant facility big enough, 96,000 square feet I think it is, big enough where it will hold additional equipment as we run into those capacity constraints. From an assembly standpoint, what we feel we've done in the past and what we think we can do now based off our product portfolio is from an assembly standpoint we think we can get up to about $330 million to $340 million of sales out of our assembly plant.

Yeah, just to put it in perspective, the new facility we're building for glass is a little bit larger than the existing one that we have. So we'll have room to add a lot of equipment in that facility, plus we have additional acreage right beside that that we can expand as we need it also. So from a footprint standpoint – or from a land standpoint, we're in good shape; from a footprint standpoint on glass, we're in good shape. And we have room to grow in the manufacturing portion of it, the assembly of the frames if we need to.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question is from Michael Dahl of Credit Suisse. Your line is open.

Hi. Thank you. Guys, can appreciate how difficult it is to manage a business that's growing this sharply, but clearly have seen kind of the gross margin pressures for about a year now so – and now the large project pricing. So hoping you can be just as specific as possible about the whole large project issue of what are they, how long will it take for this business to flow through, what percent of the mix do you see as going forward and how you plan to raise the margin profile on business like this over time?

The large project sales were projects that we entered into in Q4 and Q1 mainly, and so they represent sales in Q1 and Q2. It wasn't a substantial portion of the total sales in Q1 about $3 million and it was both new construction and R&R. The new construction projects were also not just residential, it could be condos. And on the R&R side, they were typically multi-family or condo kind of replacement.

We do expect to see that they still have the same impact, not in the second quarter to the same degree as in the first quarter, but it will weed out during the second quarter and we are no longer as aggressive as we were in the first quarter attacking certain competitors to gain these sales. So what these sales represent are new relationships and new opportunities for us to grow and especially if you consider the commercial market and the condo market and the growth that we're seeing there.

And we, as a margin profile, believe that this is short-term in nature and temporary. In terms of the mix component I wanted to address, we did see a growth in new construction go from 29% to 35% and a good portion of that growth came from the contract that we gained with big home-builders in the state, a lot of which was to get their non-impact production or sales. And as a result of those sales, that has added to the mix component since our non-impact products don't come at the same margins as our impact margins do. But in terms of the margin profile on large projects, that is about 110 basis points of the 210 basis points is what we estimate impacted our first quarter.

Okay. Thank you. I think that's helpful. And then to – so to tie it together then, how should we think about gross margin progression through the year? I guess, can we still get to the 34%, 35% range by year-end?

As the glass plant comes up on line, we have said that that is a 2% increase. So that actually will help a great deal when we see that come on line. That would be the key component. Until we get to that point, I think it's going to be difficult to get to 34%, 35% number. But certainly, once we have that glass plant on line and we get those two points back, those numbers are certainly in reach.

We have the operational efficiencies that we're working on and a 100 basis point impact in this quarter is actually one of the lower impacts that we've seen since its time has began. And we're continuing to make strides there. So we feel that that's not a long-term margin pressure, just a short term as we keep getting employees in line for the new glass plant. And, ultimately, when the glass plant comes on line in the fourth quarter, we should be able to see that gross margin back to that 34% to 35% range.

Okay. Thanks, and good luck.

Thank you. The next question is from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James. Your line is open.

Good morning, Rod, Jeff, Brad. How are you?

Hey. Great, Sam. How are you doing?

I'm doing well. As a follow-up to the last question, so the two points of gross margin from the glass plant, what is the incremental depreciation from the glass plant, just so we can get a sense of what the overall accretion might be once it's up and running?

The total purchases of that glass plant will total about $14 million. That breaks down to about $2 million of land, about $9 million or – sorry $7 million of building and about $5 million of equipment. Obviously, the buildings, the depreciation is a little immaterial. So the $7 million – or I'm sorry, the $5 million of equipment will begin depreciating in earnest next year. And you can – that'll probably be about $0.75 million to $1 million of deprecation per year on the equipment. Generally, it ranges between five years to seven years.

All right. So maybe $200,000 or $300,000 a quarter for depreciation then?

Yeah, $300,000 at the high end, I would say.

Okay. So you're looking on a current run rate somewhere between $1 million and maybe $1.250 million or so in incremental EBITDA, or I should say, EBIT, once it comes online?

Incremental depreciation expense against the EBIT, yes.

Okay. I'm talking about – you've got two points of gross margin coming, want to call it $76 million, $77 million sales run rate less the $200,000 to $300,000 in deprecation, right?

Yeah, it certainly depends on the sales level that you apply against the 2% there, yes.

Okay. And then can you talk about the acquisition pipeline, Rod and Jeff, what are you seeing out there? How fertile? What do the multiples look like? How willing are folks to sell? And what type of debt-to-EBITDA ratio would you be comfortable operating on a post deal basis, should something come to fruition?

Yeah. Some of those are pretty tough to answer at this point, but we'll take a good shot at it, Sam. The pipeline is larger now than I've seen it in probably the last six years, seven years, eight years put together through the downturn. People are seeing things turn around and companies that had targets for returns, I think, are pretty active in the marketplace, but it's really early in the marketplace.

We're seeing opportunities at a much greater rate, and we're looking into some of those opportunities, but it's really early in the process right now. Numbers that we're hearing kind of run about are – and it depends, again, if it's a public company or private company when you're looking at it. But good company multipliers probably in the seven, eight times EBITDA, some people would like to see a little bit more depending on how the company is performing depending on the size of the company and depending on where they're at.

And the companies are really spread out, it's kind of interesting that some of them are a little more local in nature, some of them are national in nature, some of them are localized to the geographic area that they're in, and we're seeing them pretty much all across the nation in almost all of those categories, from a national player to – or couple of national players to small kind of mom-and-pop $10 million to $40 million companies.

So the opportunities are – I think are definitely going to be there. So it's going to be incumbent upon someone to take a really close look and understand how that fits, how the financing works. I think there'll be a lot of work done on making sure that it's accretive. Everyone likes to talk about synergies and cost savings and I think you have to be really careful when you do that because it's tough to prove that out. So you've got to be able to look at what you really can't do and what you bring to the table – what each company brings to the table and how you bring that together, how you put that together, and make sure that it's accretive and you don't factor in too much fluff to make it work.

Well, a little bit more comment on the leverage part, Sam. Right now, we're a little over one times. I'm personally comfortable going up to 3.5 times, maybe four times depending on the potential candidate. We do generate, as you know, strong free cash flow, so that's not an issue. And assuming we get a nice company in terms of its EBITDA performance and we enhance that, it'll even make it easier to pay that debt down over time to deleverage.

So we will be very picky on the type of candidates we look for. We'll look for obviously their EBITDA and their margin profile because we do not want to damage our current margin profile. If anything, we want to enhance it as we look at these candidates. And in terms of trading multiples, I'll expand that a little bit. We've seen them all the away from six to maybe as high of nine, and it all depends on scale and position they currently have in the market.

But are you saying that you would like for it not be margin dilutive. Can we then infer that you would be primarily looking at impact businesses from an acquisition standpoint?

We will be looking at specialty businesses from a acquisition standpoint, impact being one of those.

Sam, I would think we would have to be convinced that it would not be margin dilutive and I hate to put a timeline on it, but approximately by the end of the first year, you've got to be able to look at the company and make sure that if the margins aren't quite there that it's a very clear path to get there.

And you were talking EBITDA – yeah, I'm sorry.

Yeah, EBITDA

Yeah.

And to a certain extent gross margins because you got to figure it, let's say, in your words, it is an impact-related acquisition right away with our glass plant coming online in the third quarter, we got instant volume. And obviously with doing our own glass, that's an immediate savings of 10% or so from the incremental sale which will be obviously accretive to the transaction. So there's definitely some upside out there, opportunities out there and we are looking.

How important is the location geographically to you, meaning Florida versus Non-Florida?

50-50. What's more important is the company itself and the brand and the product in the market they serve. So we're not in this looking at geographic. Obviously, Florida is in our backyard. So we'd probably be able to, I won't say, nil it, but be a lot more successful at something in our own backyard. But there are also some very attractive outside-the-state opportunities that could generate higher margins as well.

Very helpful. Thank you, gentlemen.

Thank you. The next question is from Steve Dyer of Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question.

Hey, Steve.

Hey, Steve.

Just a couple of follow-ups, most have been answered. How do you think about EBITDA margins after the glass facility kind of gets up and efficient in running, I mean, is it still reasonable to think kind of upper teens? Or is that going to be kind of too much to ask as you look into sort of next year?

No, I don't think – I think upper teens are very reasonable once the glass plant's up and running.

Okay. And would you anticipate there's going to be sort of a similar or a hiring push kind of with that as well? I know that sort of hamstring you with margins with the last several quarters in the primary facility. But is that going to result in a big staff up as well?

Well, in any given quarter like the first quarter we open it up, I would say, sure, we're going to continue to hire. We are hiring now and in hopes to leverage those hires into that glass plant, that's why unfortunately you have to start further out given the sheer magnitude of people we hired. But we warned as it takes more than the traditional six months to get a production worker up to speed. It's more like close to nine months to a year.

And so with that knowledge now in mind, after a year-and-a-quarter of this kind of growth, with that knowledge in mind, we are proactively hiring for that glass plant. And so some of the result unfortunately you see in the first quarter is just that it's just an investment into the future that if it works, it's going to leverage extremely nicely, or I should say when it works. But with that said, given the amount of turnover in this industry we work in, I do anticipate hiring still in the third quarter of this year and into the fourth quarter assuming the growth continues, albeit hopefully not at the same pace of hiring that we have.

Hey, Steve, one other things we've talked about in the past and we continue to see is that, when we're growing in that mid-20% and above range, we're having to hire a lot of people and bring them in and train them, it's hurting our margins to a certain extent, and we've seen that pretty consistently. Even to the point where when we have months that are a little bit flatter, we see margins go up because we're not necessarily adding as many employees in a given month or two.

So we've been able – what Jeff is talking about, we've definitely been able to see and we've been able to prove out with our performance. So going forward, we think we'll see that. Maybe as a note, we hired 500 and some employees in the last 15 months or so. So almost half of our manufacturing employees are around a year or less, and that's a pretty big digestion to have for any company I think and we're seeing a little bit of the results of that. But we're very confident with what we've seen in periods of time through that 15 months period that we can perform very well.

Yeah, I'll give just a little bit more color to that, just bridging with some data, Steve. During the fourth quarter our direct labor was 10.4% which was a good number. We know we can beat that actually over time. However, this quarter is a 11.1% of sales. During the fourth quarter of last year, we had a net hiring of about 14 people. During this quarter our net hiring is a 118, net meaning after people had left. So when we get to a level, leveling out point, we will run extremely efficient.

Yeah, even just replacing turnover is not that hard to do.

Right, exactly right.

As we're calling and adding people, that it becomes a little more difficult.

Very helpful. Thank you. So more near-term, I guess, on the gross margin line, when we should sort of think about kind of more low-30%s, 31%, 32% as opposed to more mid at least in fill in 2014 until we get that glass facility up and running?

Yeah, until the glass facility is up and running, I would definitely think lower mid than nil mid. April is already improved in terms of gross margin by about 80 basis points. But 32%, 33% gross margin until the glass plant's up and running, that's what we're shooting for.

Okay. And then just a couple of kind of off the beaten path. The commercial business, any thoughts or commentary there as to, I know, South Florida commercial real estate doing quite well as well, any sort of renewed push into that area for you guys?

Yeah, we've actually put – as we've said we've put more feet on the street. We've added a couple of sales reps that really focus on what we call the commercial market. To define that for us, it's really the condo market, high-rise condos and that type of thing as opposed to an office building or something that may take curtain wall or something in it. So we'll get the storefront on the bottom.

One of the things that we see is the product lines that we have get us into those buildings, and the focus on condo boards and architects and engineers that are spec'ing those jobs are getting us more jobs, and not a huge portion, but part of that was the result also of our price push that we talked about it in the fourth quarter and first quarter that affected us a little bit.

But the ability to get in there and now instead of pricing things to get on the job, we've got some of those jobs, we get spec'ed on those jobs. There's a lot of difference when you're bidding a job when you're spec'ed by the architect and an engineer than when you're walking in and you're other, you know, "or other," and you've got to bid against someone that's had that job before.

So we've seen significant success in that. It doesn't all play out immediately because a lot of those jobs, a lot of those when you're dealing with condo replacement or even condo building, we'll be working on jobs for a year or two before they actually come out of the ground or get replaced. But we're seeing – we're pleasantly pleased with our success in that category.

Okay, great. And then lastly from me, R&R, you're obviously going to start anniversarying some pretty tough comps there. What's sort of your general feel on kind of the R&R market and your sort of role within it? I know refis have obviously come in a lot to the extent that that drives that business. How are you feeling about that business kind of going into the summer?

Our market gets affected by – we're, as we all know living in Florida, we're about three weeks away from hurricane season. A whole lot different driver than I think the rest of the country gets to see. So there is a lot of awareness with storms. And even though we haven't had one for eight years, we are aware that they come and people that live here are pretty aware of it and even newcomers that come in, ask a lot of questions.

So I think from an insurance code-driven process, that there is an opportunity for us to continue to gain some share in the R&R market. Our market's driven a little differently I think than the national market. So I'm not going to say we're sitting here terribly optimistic as we had a great year last year in R&R, but the drivers are a little different I think than the national market.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, Steve.

Thank you. Our next question is from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just wanted to ask about the potential for extending the laminating and insulating capacity next year. What's going to be the primary driver of your decision here? I mean, is mix going to be a large factor? And then what kind of – would you expect there to be an impact on the gross margin or are there sources of glass that's already laminated and insulated? Or is it going to be like it's slower to get the product to your customers? How does that kind of play out?

The need or the initiative we will undertake to expand both the lamination and IG side of the business, will surely be volume-driven. Mix is getting better on the impact side, but that wouldn't be the driver, is the volume that we see could be coming in the future. We're going to make sure that volume's on a sustained run rate before we invest capital in that equipment. The margin if we don't, we would be buying that glass from the outside, so obviously that'd be a margin hit.

So when we buy the capital, you're talking a laminating line and a clave of probably $2.5 million or something like that. The building is already built, an IG line is probably $1.5 million. Again, we'll try to get latest and greatest technology on some of the stuff like we did with our tempering ovens. So that's the kind of capital. And you've got to keep in mind the last time we bought those kind of lines, it's been several years. You really leverage those lines over a long, long period of time. And we want to do all – our goal is to make 99% of our glass in-house so that we can control both the quality, the price, and on-time delivery to our customers.

Yeah, there's some code changes coming in Florida next year, and it should drive additional IG needs. We're aware of that, we were involved in the code. We were actually involved in the code changes making a lot of the proposals that drove the code changes. So we're aware of what's happening there and we've got product that we're ready to roll out. And it may change the IG needs a little bit. Not necessarily the laminated needs, but the IG need, and so we're prepared for that.

And those code changes, are those statewide or are they more at the different local levels?

It's statewide, and its energy codes. They're changing and I say it's statewide – it's a statewide code that's changing some of the requirements for energy efficiency depending on which part of the geography you're in.

Got it. Okay. And then, now, it looks like you've bumped up being fully operational in your glass plant to the end of 3Q as opposed to the end of 4Q. Is that correct? And, if so, what drove that?

No, we're going to turn on the switch at the end of the third quarter, fully operational. I'm expecting couple of months of kind of uptime, training, getting things going, getting volume though. But we've been consistent. The glass plant's going to be online at the end of the third quarter and is operational, operationally efficient I should say, as soon as possible. It will begin in the fourth quarter, I can't tell you when. It will be as soon as possible based off our people and our training.

Okay. And then one last one was, you put out an 8-K just recently about your relationship with Royal Building Products, and I believe this is in relation to changing your vinyl window platform. So I wanted to see if you could talk a little bit more about what you're doing there and if there were any impacts on your business this quarter as a result of that?

No, real impact on the business this quarter. What we are doing as vinyl becomes more of a predominant framing material of choice within Florida, in our core market, what we're doing is expanding our product offering there, and we call it ultimately vinyl. And we came out with, obviously, the French door this year, sliding glass door two years ago, so we've already started that effort. And our goal is to make the margins we make in vinyl equivalent or better than those we make on aluminum, and right now they're not.

So we make more margin dollars in aluminum than we do vinyl. So what we're going to do is reengineer our window platform, both impact and non-impact and basically consolidate to one supplier. That supplier is going to be Royal, and that's the agreement that we file an 8-K with. There we've been designing in design stages with them in terms of the window, it will run down the same line, for instance. It will free up plant space, that's why I think ultimately we'll be able to get even more production out of this plant than we've done in the past because we're going to free up some line space, square footage.

So it's actually a positive thing. We plan on launching the first series of products in the first quarter of 2015 and this should be both – enhance our vinyl margins as well as improve our presence in the vinyl side of the business in the industry.

What kind of a delta are you looking at in terms of the margin changes? And I'll stop there, sorry about that.

Generally speaking it depends on the product Rob. Generally speaking, all things considered are aluminum window versus our vinyl window, it's generally about five to seven points. So that would be the difference that we're expecting to make up.

Got it. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Next question is from Jeremy Hamblin of Dougherty & Co. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just wanted to follow up on – did you gave an April sales number on a year-over-year basis?

Yeah, I've mentioned April sales grew 24% year-over-year.

How did that compare to March and February?

Year-over-year you are referring to, Jeremy. March grew 22% and February grew 41%. And just, I guess, you didn't ask, but January grew 18% just for your – [indiscernible] (48:00)

Perfect. And let me just ask then about going after these larger projects. And as this industry has really rebounded nicely and I think both you and your competitors are also seeing nice growth is – I'm surprised that it sounds like the pricing environment is actually getting more competitive despite the fact that there's a lot more business to be had. Or was this just truly about a strategic choice that you are making in the hopes that you will have long-lasting relationships on these large projects? Can you talk a little bit more in terms of pricing and whether or not you thought you could take additional price increases moving forward on your traditional WinGuard products?

Yeah, sure. I'll talk about it a little, Jeremy. This was strategic. When we look at the marketplace and we looked at areas we thought we could grow and sustain that growth over a long period of time, that to us is really important that we never look at it by the quarter or even by the half of the year or maybe sometimes the effect that it might have in this year, but look at it for long-term. So there are some projects out there that right now as you look at the bid process, you're bidding on Phase 1 of mainly five phases.

And we weren't necessarily spec'ed on Phase 1, but we wanted to go in and bid it knowing that Phase 2 was going to be another bid process, Phase 3 is going to be another bid process. But we believe our value proposition is so strong that once we get in on one phase, it allows us to bid the second one and the third one with much less competitive bids out there. And we've seen that in the past. So this isn't the first time we've done this and say let's see how it works. This is just the opportunity to do that as we look forward for the remainder of the year and realize we're going to have some capacity glass-wise because some of these projects are two year projects or longer. And they're not contracting price for two years, they're just, if all three, four, five phases are going to last that long. So very strategic when we look at some of those projects.

Also, as we looked at some of the condos, we knew we wanted to have a bigger presence in the condo market. And the interesting thing about the condo market is you pick out kind of a signature condo and everybody knows that it's PGT's product in that condo. And it makes all the condos around it particularly with success on that condo much easier to bid. So everything we did pretty much on this condo process was really kind of a strategic focus to say where are we at as a company, how do we make sure that we're positioned correctly for our new glass facility, how do we make sure we're positioned correctly for the markets that we want to serve long term and are we confident that we can get it.

And I think to the latter part of your question, will pricing stick, we saw the price increase that we had last year stick pretty well for that general pricing. This was the competitive pricing that we've put out there to get a couple of projects.

Yeah. And I was asking specific to your traditional WinGuard product, whether or not you thought you had additional pricing power and whether or not you might use that going forward?

Yeah, I mean, again, we've talked about that in the past and we think that that's definitely an advantage for us, particularly with the market share that we maintain. And last time we announced the price increases stuck. We think the next price increase will stick also. We see competitors having some capacity constraints also. So I know that as we go forward, there'll be a little more pricing pressure in our market. I think nationally what you see is things haven't gone necessarily as well as what people thought. So there is a little extra capacity out there, but we're not seeing quite as much of that in the state of Florida.

Okay. Let me just – in coming back to the large project pricing and the strategy behind us, when you guys had your conference call a couple of months ago, I would say obviously people are a little bit surprised to see the degradation in gross margins to where they were. Was this something where you feel like you had communicated this and people missed it? Or is this kind of strategic choices that have been made post that call?

We don't give guidance. The guidance that we gave is generally where month-end by the time we have our call, so we see what that month has done on a top-line. And that from a future point of view, obviously, you can drive by our plant and you see a new glass facility going up and they're putting steel up there and it would be kind of ingenuine of us not to be talking about that because it's something that we're doing. But as far as our internal strategy for how we attack the market, it's not something that we've really given guidance on at any point in time.

And then just in terms of the healthcare cost, the other aspect on gross margin drag, are those purely transitory? Is this kind of one-time specific to Q1? Or is that something where because you've had so many hires that we should be expecting those adjustments to your accruals to continue to flow through in Q2, Q3, et cetera?

Yeah, Jeremy, when we disclose that impact of the cost of healthcare, what I was referring to there was the actual cost above what I would consider to be volume-driven. The cost of the new employees just on a volume basis is, to us, is considered part of the contribution margin. But in the first quarter, we did experience cost per person, if you will, in excess of what we had in first quarter last year of that 57% number.

And looking at the details of those claims, there were mainly several large claims as opposed to just every single claim going up by a bunch. So we do experience additional healthcare cost or expect additional healthcare cost just because that's what the industry is experiencing, that's what the country is experiencing. But their first quarter in terms of it's kind of excess of 57% growth is more around large claims that are not likely to reoccur.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions. Best of luck.

Thanks, Jeremy.

Thanks.

Thank you. This ends the Q&A portion of today's conference. I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Brad West for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you for joining us today, and I want to thank our employees for their continued efforts and hard work, and we look forward to speaking to you again next quarter. If you have any further questions, please call us and have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.