corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, and welcome to the PGT Industry’s Second Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded.


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Executive Vice President Mr. Jeff Jackson.


Please go ahead, sir.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Matt . Good morning everyone and welcome to PGT’s second quarter 2009 conference


call. I’m Jeff Jackson CFO and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO. We will


represent PGT on this morning’s call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s call contains statements concerning the


company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such statements are


considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995. These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and


uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking


statements. Please refer to yesterday’s press release and our most recently Form 10-K field with


the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on our Investor Relations section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheet and


statements of operation prepared in accordance with GAAP and pro forma information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.


Our company uses non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A


detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our Form 8-K filed


yesterday with the SEC. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation


of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe the presentation of non-GAAP


measurement provides additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and


present performance of our company.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the second quarter. Then I’ll


discuss our results in more detail. After our prepared remarks, we’ll take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod.


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jeff, and good morning everyone. As I mentioned in our press release although the


challenges faced in the homebuilding industry continue to place downward pressure on the


economy in our markets during the second quarter. We were able to deliver solid operating results.


These results include a sequential quarter sales improvement, positive cash generation and net


income.


The homebuilding industry began to show some positive signs as several of the nations’ largest


home builders reported increases in new home owners and decreases in cancellation rates. Also


construction of new homes in the U.S. rose in June to the highest level in seven months and


applications for building permits recently began increasing.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Science of builders are starting to regain confidence. However, new home construction remains at


historically low levels at the start in our core market were down 44% in the second quarter


compared to last year second quarter. The continued decline in home prices and low interest rates


plus the tax incentives for first time home buyers provided some beneficial economic affects during


the quarter.


The credit availability remains tight and there continues to be a steady rate of foreclosures, leaving


a glut of unoccupied homes in the market. The economy continues to shed jobs as the rate of


unemployment is nearly 10% nationally and in the double-digit in some areas including Florida


where unemployment was 10.6% in June.


In the phase of this market, our sales decrease 22%, compared to the second quarter of 2008 sales


into the repair and remodeling market were down 8% plus sales into the new construction market


were down 45%.


As a percentage of total sales for the second quarter of 2009, R&R sales accounted for 74%, and


new construction sales accounted for 26% of sales compared to the second quarter of 2008. Where


R&R sales accounted for 63% of sales, new construction represented 37%.


As mentioned in previous calls our plan for managing through prolonged housing downturn includes


driving sales, especially in out of state market and growing our dominate share in our core market


Florida. We began taking orders on our new non-impact final window targeted for the R&R market


in March.


The window is exceeding our expectations and is already contributing to our goal of driving sales


growth in out of state market. We are pleased with the sales being driven by our new vinyl product


line and expect this line to continue to provide geographic sales growth as we continue to focus on


increasing our distribution network in targeted areas, targeted states outside of Florida.


Due to the success of our new vinyl products in the second quarter of 2009 out of state sales were


up nearly 21% compared to last year and nearly 44% compared to the first quarter of 2009. Out of


state sales represented 8.5 million or over 18% of our 46.9 million of net sales during the second


quarter of 2009. This compares to just 12% last year and less than 14% last quarter. This growth is


directly related to our – to the introduction of our new vinyl product line and is occurring in markets


throughout the United States.


We also recently announced that beginning on August 10 we will start taking orders of our


WinGuard vinyl windows both impact and non-impact that qualify for the energy tax credits provided


for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The Act includes an incentive for U.S.


homeowners to receive up to a 30% tax credit for energy efficient home improvements made in


2009 and 2010.


In the first quarter, we took further restructuring actions to better align cost with recent sales levels.


These restructuring actions are on track to save us an estimated $10 million annually. We also


implemented other efficiency initiatives to provide us with cost savings in supply chain and other


areas. We realized the full benefits of these actions and initiatives in the second quarter as


combined with solid cash generated from operations, we were able to pre-pay $8 billion of


outstanding bank debt while cash on hand decreased only 1.7 million.


Comparing the second quarter to the first quarter of 2009, sales increased 5.4 million driven mainly


by an increase in aluminum WinGuard sales in Southern Florida and an increase in out of state


sales of vinyl products.