Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad R. West — Chief Financial Officer, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — President & Chief Operating Officer, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PGT, Inc.
Joshua K. Wilson — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Robert Wetenhall — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Greg W. Palm — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Judy Lynn Merrick — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Kenneth R. Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Rob G. Hansen — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT Inc. Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Brad West, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, you may begin.

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to PGT's quarterly and fiscal year end investor conference call. I'm Brad West, CFO; and I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, our Chairman and CEO; and Jeff Jackson, President and COO. This morning, we are pleased to provide an update on both our fourth quarter and year-end results, as well as an outlook for the first quarter of 2015. Hopefully everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release issued yesterday.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies, and market outlook. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Rather, they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please refer to our press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.pgtindustries.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited, condensed, consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and adjusted information, which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

We will provide an overview of our performance for the fourth quarter and year ended January 3, 2015. After our prepared remarks, we'll have ample time to address any questions you may have.

With that, let me turn the call over to our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jeff Jackson. Jeff?

Thanks, Brad, and good morning, everyone. 2014 was an exciting year for us at PGT. Highlights include consolidated sales of $306.4 million, our highest sales level since our IPO year of 2006. The acquisition of CGI, a strong, high-end impact brand in our core market, an increase in our employees up to 1,900 folks versus 1,400 last year, and completion of phase one of our glass plant capacity expansion.

We have been the leading manufacturer of impact-resistant windows and doors in Florida for many years. The acquisition of CGI increases our leadership position in the impact-resistant window and door industry and strengthens our ability to compete against national suppliers. With its base operation in Miami, we strengthened our presence and increased our market share for the impact-resistant window and door in Florida to approximately 60%.

In the fourth quarter of 2014, 79% of our sales were from sales of impact-resistant products, growing 19% over the fourth quarter of last year, while sales of non-impact-resistant products represented 21%, growing 6%. Also in the quarter, 60% of our sales were from the repair and remodeling market, up 7% over the fourth quarter of last year, while sales into the new construction market represented 40% and grew 33% over prior year.

In keeping with the production innovation that has helped us achieve our place as a leading manufacturer and supplier of impact-resistant windows and doors, on January 20, we unveiled our new vinyl WinGuard line at the IBS Show in Las Vegas. Our new vinyl line WinGuard couples the safety of an impact-resistant window with the design flexibility of vinyl. And our EnergyVue vinyl line is our new non-impact offering designed to meet or exceed the tougher energy code requirements of tomorrow.

Also with the addition of CGI, we added 200 employees to our PGT family. We are proud of all our dedicated hard-working employees and thank everyone for their commitment to making PGT a success and a great place to work.

We also completed the first phase of our glass capacity expansion and ramped up our operations during the fourth quarter. The new glass processing facility gives us approximately 100,000 square feet of additional manufacturing space where we are cutting and tempering glass. In the first half of 2015, we will add more equipment that will increase our insulating and laminating capacities.

We faced some tough challenges during the start-up phase that negatively impacted our gross margins, as the cost to ramp-up our glass capacity was at the high end of our estimate. But we began to see some of the benefits of processing our own glass as we reduced our dependence on outsourced glass.

While we are continuing to add and train employees, we are confident the majority of those operational challenges are behind us, and we're looking forward to taking full advantage of the operating leverage that producing our own glass will provide. In fact, we have increased our overall glass capacity by approximately 25% since the third quarter of 2014.

Looking forward into 2015, we have already had an indication of improved performance based off our January 2015 results. This improvement, which includes better scrap and labor results, as well as a substantial January sales increase over prior year, has led to a promising start for 2015.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Brad who will review the results in the fourth quarter and fiscal year in greater detail.

Thank you, Jeff. As Jeff mentioned, we reported sales of $84.7 million, up 33.6% over prior year, with organic sales growing to $72.0 million, up 16.1%, representing our highest fourth quarter sales since 2005. For the full year 2014, sales finished at $306.4 million, which represents a 28% increase, and adjusted EBITDA came in at $46.3 million, which was an increase of 22.5%, and was 15.1% of sales.

Breaking down our sales drivers compared to 2013's fourth quarter, we have: WinGuard sales of $52.2 million versus $44.7 million, an increase of $7.5 million, or 16.8%; vinyl non-impact sales of $9.4 million versus $8.3 million, up 13.3% over prior year; aluminum non-impact sales of $6.3 million versus $6.2 million, up 1.6%; PremierVue sales were $1.9 million versus $1.4 million, an increase of 35.7% over prior year; Architectural Systems sales of $2.2 million versus $1.4 million, an increase of 57.1%; and CGI sales were $12.7 million.

Gross margin dollars increased $4.5 million, or 21.6%, over the fourth quarter 2013 after adjusting for costs relating to the ramp up of capacity. However, our adjusted gross margin of 29.6% decreased as a percentage of sales by 3.6% compared to the same period of last year, in part related to an extra week of fixed cost due to the 53-week year in 2014. Our margins are also impacted by inefficiencies related to the ramp up of capacity and higher aluminum costs.

A shift in mix towards new construction and vinyl sales impacted margins as well. Offsetting these factors was a beneficial effect of reduced reliance on outsourced glass, higher volume and the addition of the CGI.

To quantify these factors, our decreasing of gross margin as a percentage of sales of 3.6% was driven by increased material costs from scrap inefficiencies due to the ramp up of capacity by 140 basis points, the extra week of fixed costs with no sales due to the 53-week fiscal year by 120 basis points, employee and other related costs in connection with higher sales and higher healthcare costs of 120 basis points, an increase in the cost of aluminum extrusion by 120 basis points, and a shift in mix towards new construction and vinyl products reduced margins by 90 basis points. These factors were offset by cost savings of reduced purchases of outsourced glass by 60 basis points, impact of higher volume by 50 basis points and the addition of CGI by 120 basis points.

Our new glass facility is specifically designed to increase our internal capacities for finished glass units. We estimate that this initiative will improve our margins on average by two percentage points in 2015. However, the actual impact will vary from quarter-to-quarter based on top line sales and our internal capacities, which will increase with the installation of our laminating equipment towards the end of the second quarter.

With regards to aluminum, our average delivered cost of aluminum was approximately $1.13 per pound during the quarter, all comprised of spot purchases, as our aluminum hedges are all considered to be ineffective. This compared to an average delivered price of $0.91 per pound during the fourth quarter of 2013. This represents a 24% increase in the average price per pound of aluminum since last year, which we estimate had a negative impact to material cost of approximately $800,000 in the quarter.

As of today, we are covered for approximately 57% of our estimated needs through the fourth quarter of 2015 at an average price of $1.10 per pound. The current delivered cash price today is $1.04 per pound.

We leveraged revenue growth during the quarter to reduce adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales to 18.2%, compared to the adjusted 22.2% in the fourth quarter of 2013. Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $15.4 million, after adjusting for the acquisition costs, an increase of $1.6 million from the fourth quarter 2013. Included in SG&A expenses for the quarter are CGI expenses of $2.9 million.

Highlights within our SG&A include a decrease in amortization expense of $1.6 million, a decrease in employee related costs of $0.6 million, offset by an increase of $1.3 million in selling and distribution costs, consistent with higher sales. With the acquisition of CGI, we acquired certain amortizable intangible assets, which will increase our SG&A due to higher amortization expense. This is a non-cash increase in SG&A, which we estimate will total approximately $3.6 million in 2015, or approximately $900,000 per quarter.

Interest expense was $3.2 million, compared to $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. This increase from prior year relates to the higher outstanding debt level as a result of the refinancing. Depreciation and amortization in the quarter was $2.4 million compared to $2.7 million last year. Going forward, as a result of the acquired intangibles, our depreciation related to the new glass plant, quarterly depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately $2.6 million.

Our tax expense in the fourth quarter was $1.2 million and represents an effective income tax rate of 29.7%. And we finished the year with a tax rate of 37.1%, which is lower than the statutory rate of 38.8%. This rate is lower than the statutory rate due mainly to the impact of the Section 199 domestic manufacturing deduction. We recorded $519,000 of tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2013, which represented a true up of the estimate of annual broker earnings made in the 2013 second quarter when we released our deferred tax asset valuation allowance.

Going forward, we expect to record tax expense at an effective rate between 37% and 38%. Also from a cash perspective, we currently estimate our tax affected federal operating loss carry-forwards to be approximately $6.1 million, so essentially all of which were acquired in the CGI acquisition.

We had net income in the fourth quarter of $4.2 million or $0.08 per diluted share versus $5.9 million or $0.12 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013, after adjusting for the expenses related to the acquisition, debt refinancing and the new glass facility. The adjusted net income in the fourth quarter of 2014 includes the impact of $2.3 million in tax expense from operations.

Adjusted EBITDA was $12.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to the adjusted EBITDA of $9.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Included in adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter 2014 was $2.9 million of EBITDA from CGI. Excluding CGI, adjusted EBITDA decreased $362,000. A reconciliation of net income and EBITDA, which I have just discussed, has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

We ended the year with a cash balance of $42.5 million, which is up $12.3 million from the end of 2013. Our cash growth was achieved, despite capital spending of $19.3 million, mostly from the glass plant expansion, and all the CapEx was funded by $22.3 million from cash from operations.

We anticipate consolidated capital spending requirements in 2015 to range from $15 million to $18 million, as additional glass equipment is required to service the increase in consolidated sales. Concurrent with the acquisition of CGI, we refinanced our existing debt into a new senior secured credit facility on favorable terms, consisting of a $200 million term loan and a $35 million revolving credit facility. This new facility gave us the ability to make this key acquisition and gives us access to funds for future working capital growth if needed. With $42.5 million of cash in hand, our current net leverage is 2.7 times.

During the first seven weeks of our first quarter, we have seen direct labor and scrap improved by approximately 0.3% and 1.0% of sales respectively compared to the fourth quarter. This in part helped improve our January consolidated gross margin to finish at 32.3%. For the first quarter of 2015, we anticipate our quarter-over-quarter growth to continue, both organically and through our acquisition of CGI, and estimate that consolidated sales will range between $90 million and $93 million. We believe this first quarter sales estimate includes sales to customers that accelerated their orders from the second quarter as a result of our first-in-quarter 2015 price increase.

Given our current sales mix and improved operational performance, we anticipate first quarter of 2015 gross margin to range from 31.5% to 33.0%. Additionally, we are near the end of our new ERP system cutover and expect shipments within our new system to begin to ramp up in the second quarter. Although many months of testing has been done in anticipation of the switch, temporary inefficiencies may occur.

At this time, I will turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger, for summary remarks.

Thank you, Brad. 2014 was a great year for PGT. The acquisition of CGI expanded our impact product offering and added another market-leading brand to our portfolio. By acquiring a manufacturing facility in Miami, we also strengthened our presence in a critical impact-resistant market and added approximately 200 employees to the PGT family. We invested in additional infrastructure, particularly in the building of a new glass processing facility to reduce dependence on outsourced finished glass units.

Our two year ERP implementation is nearing completion with a relatively low-risk product-by-product cutover, and we've increased our marketing capabilities. We continue to outpace our underlying markets in terms of top line growth. And while proud of all that our dedicated and success-driven employees accomplished in 2014, we're even more excited about our potential for success in 2015 and beyond.

We're off to a solid start in 2015. As Brad mentioned, we saw some sales pulled in, we think that was about $6 million worth, driven by our price increase, and we'll see that continue to flow as we go through the year. Our new glass facility is up and running, and we are in phase two, which entails adding laminating and insulating equipment to further capitalize on the efficiencies that it will provide. We've continued to invest in our employees, as we have implemented strategic initiatives in training and development. We are eager to see the impact of these initiatives and believe additional opportunities exist to lower our operational costs and leverage them with incremental sales.

We continually demonstrate our commitment to innovation by introducing new exceptionally designed products to the window and door markets, most recently with our new vinyl WinGuard and EnergyVue vinyl. These products have been well received by the industry and are designed to exceed the most stringent of impact-resistant and energy-saving codes and standards in the country and provide an array of sizes to satisfy the customers' ever increasing demand for larger windows and doors that can still get the impact and energy job done. I am thankful for the dedication and effort put forth by all of our employees who have worked hard to help us realize our strategic initiatives.

With that, I'll conclude and we'll be happy to answer your questions about our results over the recent acquisition. Shannon, if you could get the first question, please.

Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James. You may begin.

Hi, this is Josh Wilson filling in for Sam, thanks for taking my questions.

Hi, Josh.

Hey, Josh.

Could you quantify how much organic growth is baked into the first quarter guidance?

Just one second, Josh. Our consolidated sales estimate of $90 million to $93 million. I have to do a range on that because I'm thinking that consolidated. It's probably a range of – in the mid-20%s.

Mid 20%s organic growth?

Yeah.

Okay.

Josh, you realize part of that is pulled in. We did a price increase, so we had some customers take advantage of that price increase and order a little bit ahead, so that drove a little bit more organic growth also.

That makes sense. And regarding the gross margin guidance, what could push you to one end of the range or the other, especially what might cause you to go below what you already did in January?

We have issues like mix, which has a new construction and R&R component to it and an aluminum and vinyl component. The cost of aluminum is quite variable at the time. And then also, while we've seen some great trends in the operations coming from hiring a lot of people in the last half of the year and also ramping up our capacity this year, that's something that we want to continue to see sustained. So those are the three factors.

And did I hear you right that there were no sales in the extra week?

That's correct.

Good luck with the first quarter.

Thanks, Josh.

Thank you, Josh.

Thank you. Our next question is from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets. You may begin.

Hey guys. Nice way to cap-off a strong year. Wanted to get your thoughts, what are you seeing in terms of demand from both new residential construction activity and repair and remodel spending levels in the Florida market?

On the new construction side – I'll jump in a little bit on that, Bob. On the new construction side, we haven't seen – I know some parts of the nation are seeing a little bit of weakness and there is a – we really haven't seen that in Florida. There is a little bit of a – maybe a drawdown, because labor's hard to find. Some of the big builders are slowing down maybe just a hair because they're struggling to find good labor, but not from a demand point of view. So we think new construction remains pretty strong.

Just kind of as a reminder to everyone, our housing starts have been down so low, and last year they were in the 55 million, 56 million range, which is about half of what is sustainable and what our number has been, based on our population over the last 20 years, taking out the bubble. So we think that can continue pretty strong.

On the R&R side, it's a little harder to look into that market and really get a good feel for it, but we've seen it continue to grow. People tend to invest in product that will save them money on their insurance rates. Insurance is a pretty high cost here in the coastal areas in Florida, in particular, but in every costal area. So if they can invest in their house, improve it, and save money on the insurance, we think that's a driver that – it won't make it grow – we don't think it's going to grow in double-digits, but we think maybe that mid – low-to-mid single-digit area is probably a good guess for us.

On the pricing side, I think you were talking about price action of 3% to 7%. How's realization of your price increase? And if you could also just touch on the expected contribution in 1Q from the CGI acquisition?

So, the price increase was – 3% to 7% range was based upon products. We're just now starting to see that in play because orders went up through January 15. So with our lead times, we're just now starting to see that in the first quarter. It's been received pretty well, and I think we're probably going to realize, I would guess, around 2% at this point in time and maybe better, but we'll conservatively stick to 2%. I'm sorry, the second question was about...?

It was just about CGI, what are you looking to get revenue-wise in your guidance?

Right. So the range of $90 million to $93 million includes a CGI range of roughly $11 million to $12 million.

Got it. And just one last final – you guys have done a great job of building up the PP&E, and it sounds like you're going to be able to source all of your glass needs internally. How do we think about the timing of incremental costs? And at what point in the year do you get to a position where if your sales are above $55 million in a quarter, you can source that internally? And how do we think about the impact as we move through the year on gross margin? Thanks a lot and good luck with the quarter.

Yeah, Bob. How we look at that really is a step-up in investment. We kind of look at it in two ways. The types of glass that's made being the first. We make custom glass here, and we can make that better, we think, than any of our third-party supplier and at a lower cost. The standard, what we call rack glass, is what we will continue to buy from our third-party. And obviously, depending on demand, at times, we may have to buy custom glass. Again, that will be dictated by sales. But our goal is to ultimately make the majority of our custom glass in-house. So we'll always have a percentage of our glass needs from a third-party, the rack standard stuff. That percentage will probably range anywhere from a 15% to a high of 20% of our needs in any given month or quarter, all, again, volume-dependent, which brings me to the type of growth that we'll see.

If we continue to see a strong R&R market, which we think we will, we think the R&R market will stay in that, like Rod said, mid to upper single-digits. But the new construction market is now obviously becoming a bigger part of our sales as well. That's where you typically can see the standard kind of sizes in glass we'll be ordering.

So in terms of a step-up in investment, as I had mentioned, we are continuing to invest. We hired 19 people this week. We hired 15 people last week. So that investment is still going on in the wake of the volume we're seeing coming at us. And both the IG and laminating investment should be complete and up and running by the back half of this year. And after that, it'll all be volume-based, and what we can do and type of volume that's coming at us.

Understood, thanks and good luck.

You bet.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Steve Dyer of Craig-Hallum Capital. You may begin.

Hey, it's Greg Palm on for Steve. Congrats on the good results and guidance, guys.

Thanks, Greg.

Thanks, Greg.

It looks like Q4 CGI results came in ahead of expectation. So can you first talk about that? And then sort of big picture, it's been almost a half a year since you acquired CGI. So I was wondering if you could update us on sort of expectations for cost and revenue synergies, what has exceeded expectations so far, kind of what kind of synergies are still out there? Any color would be helpful.

The margins and results that we've seen from CGI since the acquisition have actually pretty much been in line with our expectation, and we've been very, very happy with the acquisition. As it turns out, the products and the sales team and everything has just been integrated really, really well with us, and it's worked out great. In terms of what we expect for synergies going forward, the back half of this 2015 is when we should start to see some of those operational efficiencies come into play. We've already seen some of the SG&A efficiencies. And what we expect is that when we get to 2016, we should see an annual number of about $4 million to $5 million, which is pretty much in line with what we thought when the acquisition was completed.

Hey, Greg. One of the big drivers, I think, when we talk about synergies is – Jeff just talked a lot about the glass plant and the additional infrastructure that we're putting in place there with laminating and IG. At current time, CGI buys all their glass from the outside, and they've got a great supplier, same supplier that we use as a third-party source for our glass. And depending on how sales grows this year will have an effect on how that synergy works. Because their supplier is good, it's not something that we have to do; it's something that we want to do and we want to make sure that we do it at the right time with the right spend to make sure that our glass operations are really operating efficiently before we start making that cutover. So sales will drive some of those decisions, as well as capacity, and we'll give you updates as we go through the quarters about what that's doing to us sales-wise and the ability of our glass plant to handle their needs also.

Do you feel like you're getting any positive impact just from putting their products in your current distribution sort of partners and vice versa?

Yeah, what we've done is we're not necessarily taking all their products and putting it in our customers, because – and we're not necessarily taking all of our products and putting it in their customers. We're very selective at how we go to market. We spend a lot of time talking about how we market the product correctly, who gets what and how we separate, because they both have their own brand name. And it's important to maintain that brand name. I mentioned a little bit that we've added some marketing capabilities. We're really focusing on making sure that we manage our market channels really well, so that we take advantage of some of the strengths that CGI brings to the table, which are really good on the high-end on their Estate line, and some of the strengths that PGT brings to the table from their volume and just from the reputation out in the field and making sure that we differentiate that a little bit and make sure they go into the right markets.

Yeah, if I had to add kind of the – it's been almost five months now – kind of the three things we really drove in the acquisition, it would be, first, getting CGI more presence on the West Coast. We're trying to expand that distribution network outside South Florida, Southeast Florida in particular. So we've made a concerted effort to do that. We stopped competing against each other in our core market in Southeast as much. Obviously with – and that's affected pricing positively. And I think thirdly, we're trying to complete the CGI door line. There's a lot of good door initiatives out there that the CGI product line needed enhancing on and offerings for, and we're really driving that into their distribution network. So that's been kind of the top three areas we've really focused on during the first five months. There's more to come, and all those three areas have delivered positive results so far.

That's good color. Last one from me. You continue to post growth well above new construction growth rates in the state, and it was obviously really strong again in Q4. Can you maybe talk about sort of what are the underlying drivers, what's the biggest driver of that and kind of how you see that sort of evolve throughout 2015?

I think we've been pretty consistent for the last five years at least, six years, talking about our value proposition and how important that was, complete on-time delivery, high quality product. And customers appreciate that. And as the market gets busier, sometimes people are willing to spend a little bit more for their product, knowing it's always going to be there on time, it's going to be great quality, we're going to take care of any issues that are out there, because the project will be on time. And delaying projects has a much higher cost than buying a little bit less expensive window. And we've believed that for a long time, we've talked about that, we talked about it in 2011 and 2012, where sales – where the new construction market started picking up and we weren't seeing some of those sales, because it was very price-driven. But it's a core belief that we have and it's a core belief that we stick by and we're really seeing that pay off now.

And I would also add in most of the analyst's reports I've read and actually in talking to the builders themselves, in the Florida market, builders are getting pricing and it's going up. So they're able to stick pricing. And that pricing typically comes with better product choices and better offerings, of which impact is one of those. And we're having more and more people opt for that upgrade, if you will, when they get the choice. And that's been a very positive momentum for us.

Thanks for the color and good luck going forward.

Thank you. Our next question is from Keith Hughes of SunTrust. You may begin.

This is Judy in for Keith Hughes. Just a follow up on the earlier question where you kind of gave your normalized view of buying external rack glass. Where are you guys now, and particularly heading into like the second quarter and kind of the peak season, are you guys kind of at that point now in your internal capacity?

Well, we've added – we've increased our internal capacity over 25% since last year. And where we're at is, it really depends on the actual week sales we get. Unfortunately, it's not all nice and level, so we're not going to take – say we do hit $90 million to $93-ish million, we can't take that and divide it by 13. It comes in weeks of – we'll get an $8 million week and we'll get a $6 million week. And we have to hold to our lead times. So all that flows through in dictating how we handle it internally versus going to a third-party source, which, as we mentioned I think in the last conference call, we have negotiated a very favorable agreement with our supplier, our long-term supplier, Cardinal, in that. And so when we do go to the third-party source versus say last year and the prior years, the pricing there has improved substantially. So really, internal capacity is dictated by the volumes we see coming at us. We will produce all the custom work internally we can and then, at worse case, we'll have to farm that out depending on volume.

Okay, thanks. And before, you had given the 2015 CapEx target of $8 million to $10 million for equipment over maintenance, can you repeat what you said on the call about your CapEx target for 2015?

Yeah, we had mentioned that it's going to be $15 million to $18 million, and that's going to include us spending some additional money in the glass capacity for that laminating line that Jeff had just mentioned, as well as the insulating line. Just basically, we had done phase one of the glass plant expansion last year, and then incremental costs this year will be, if you will, phase two.

And also don't forget, we did buy a company, so there's CapEx associated with our new acquisition of CGI too. So that's not a – the historical standalone PGT CapEx has been impacted because of our acquisition.

Okay, got it. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question is from Ken Zener of KeyBanc. You may begin.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Brad, I think it was you that referred – you or Jeff. The 2% benefit in 2015 from new capacity, I believe that's what you talked to – said. Could you just confirm that you said that? And is that actually a reasonable increase that we should assume from the fiscal 2014 gross margin, just so we have some perspective on how the leverage is going to flow through quarterly, given the volatility we saw in the back-half of 2014?

Yeah, well, the average is 2% for the entire year but it is worth noting that in the first quarter and the second quarter, we will not be able to get as much benefit, because that laminating line that is being installed doesn't get installed until the end of second quarter. So it's going to be a better number in the back half of the year than it will in the first half of the year for that reason.

So the 200 basis points, I mean you're getting obviously increased volume. One would think there would be some volume efficiencies above and beyond your cost leverage. Is it reasonable, given that about 30.5% gross margin in fiscal 2014, that you're saying 200 basis points plus for the full year?

For the impact of the glass operations, yes.

Wouldn't it be reasonable to assume you'd get volume leverage on top of that as well?

Yeah.

Or is that not the right assumption?

Yeah, well that 2% includes, if you will, the whole impact of bringing the glass in-house versus the impact of what we were paying for the outside glass in the previous years.

Okay.

Yeah, Ken, just to add a little bit to that. That 2% isn't glass-related for the entire year; that 2% will include leveraging up inefficiencies, as well as making our own custom glass in-house. Now it will increase, once we get all the laminating and finish getting the IG line that's currently installed, we're starting to run that now, and install the laminating line over there. And if you look into next year, it would be a 2% kind of standalone just for that stuff. But this year, no, there's going to be some leverage in that 2% as well.

Yeah, it's going to always be impacted slightly by product mix and by new construction versus R&R. And we think we have a good handle on what that's going to be, but there's no way we're going to sit here and tell you exactly how that mix is going to run out through the year. We expect – there's a code change that's been announced for June. That will affect some of the product mix as we get through the year, and it's a hard number to predict how that changes our product mix.

Understood. It seems to me, obviously, you guys face structural headwinds in volume and outsourcing. So as you come out of here, I just want to make sure we all understand your volatility I think might happen. So for example in 2Q, not to get ahead of ourselves, but are there natural drags, given the guidance that you gave in 1Q of 31.5% to 33%, are there things we should be aware of when we're considering the second quarter that would be a drag, or should it kind of be flat within that range that you gave us? Because obviously the back half gets the glass benefit.

Yeah, the range that we gave you will be made up of different drivers in the second quarter. In the second quarter, you're going to get more of a leverage, fixed cost leverage driver in that range. Because from a glass standpoint, if volume increases in our second quarter, which historically it has, and it's custom glass, we're going to make as much as we can in-house. But since we're not totally up and running for our custom side yet, we will have to farm some of that out, so that would be a hit – those incremental sales, we're not going to see that flow-through that we would if we produced it in-house. So that could be a little drag, offset by fixed overhead leverage.

I think right now, from what we see – and that's why we gave first quarter guidance for the first time in our margins, given the investment we made in the fourth quarter, we're going to make sure everyone was clear, we're comfortable in the first quarter, that 31.5% to 33%, and things go right in the first seven weeks – we've had a phenomenal seven weeks. We just got to close out the six weeks and we'll obviously close in the upper end of that range. We're not yet ready to give any kind of range for the second quarter, because it will be made up of different drivers.

Understood. I mean you structurally can interpret that source. So that's useful. Just going on to SG&A, now that – if I look at the fourth quarter, the SG&A dollars of 15.8%, I kind of model a 7% variable cost, which gets you to close to 10% fixed SG&A. Would that be a appropriate number to look at 2015 on? I'm just trying to understand how the relationship of fixed SG&A and your rapid sales growth will leverage that line item.

In the fourth quarter, we had a couple of things that I think are worth pointing out relative to the first quarter. As a reminder, in our first quarter, we always have a customer event – we had one last year, and we're going to have it again this year – which will run about $600,000 of higher SG&A costs in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter. Additionally, in the fourth quarter, in part because of the results that we've seen, we did not accrue bonus in the fourth quarter of 2014, and now we've seen 2015, we're accruing bonuses again. So those two impacts will have the first quarter SG&A dollars, as well as whatever sales and volume we're going to assume are going to be higher than what they were in the fourth quarter.

Okay. And then given the change in oil, you discussed your long-term relationships on the glass side being beneficial. Could you talk about specifically with resins, vinyls and new product, the decline in oil, how you're thinking about that supply chain in terms of cost? Obviously, aluminum you discussed the hedges, but if we could have an understanding of how oil and your profiles might be impacted by deflation? Thank you.

Resin and the cost of resin, as it relates to our suppliers, is impacted by the price of oil, but maybe not as much as you might think. There's quite a bit of impacts that go into that number. We have seen a slight drop because of the result of oil and what we call the CDI metric that helps set the pricing for resin. But as a reminder, we did sign a new supply agreement with Royal last year for our new vinyl products, which also kind of resets our price. So as a result of that, you will see some benefits for the oil price, but it's really going to show up more for us in the cost of fuel within our own fleet and the drop in diesel price.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Jeremy Hamblin of Dougherty. You may begin.

Good morning, and let me add my congratulations. And it feels like you're turning the corner on your operational efficiencies. I wanted to ask a question on another cost line item, and that's on aluminum. So in terms of why you're seeing the spike higher in costs, because we're not really seeing that on the spot side of the commodity itself, can you just talk a little bit about the potential surcharges that you guys are seeing from suppliers on the aluminum side, or kind of how that's transpired over the last several months and how we should be thinking about that moving forward?

Sure, Jeremy. The cost of the aluminum is really made up of LME component, as well as the Midwest premium, which is why I referred to it as a delivered price in my comments. And that delivered price, that Midwest premium component, if you will, is really what's fluctuated. At the beginning of 2014, that was running about $0.11 per pound, and at the end of 2014, it had jumped all the way to $0.24. So yes, while there wasn't as big of a fluctuation in the LME during the year, that's where we saw a lot of that fluctuation. And right now, it's at $0.22, so it has ticked back a little bit since the beginning of the year, but it's still running quite higher than it ever has been.

In terms of how to predict that going forward, there's a lot of unknowns about why – where it's at, and we have no kind of indication of what it's going to do in the future. But it's obviously something we consider when we think about how we lock in our prices in the future. We now have to consider the Midwest premium as well.

When you – just to elaborate that a little further, is this partly caused by – there's been stress placed on the system, obviously, there's been the problems on the West Coast ports, which everybody's been looking for alternative routes to get various products across the country, whether by rail or truck or boat. Is that part of – when you talk to suppliers, is that part of why we're seeing the spike in the Midwest premium?

I think there's lots of factors, but if you read the reports and you see the kind of the remarks out there, it's really kind to hard to pinpoint the increase. And there's not a lot of supply and demand or factors that really support it, which is kind of reason why a lot of people expect it to drop, even though we haven't seen that drop yet. So I don't know that you can pinpoint it to just one thing like that, Jeremy.

Okay. And I think you said in your comments, it was a 120 basis point drag in Q1 – I'm sorry, in Q4?

That's correct, Q4 over Q4 of last year.

And in terms of the drag that's embedded in your guidance for Q1, what are we assuming for aluminum?

Well, yeah, we can't really get into the specifics on that. Our range includes all the factors, and that's what we'll stick with as our gross margin range.

Okay. But can I assume that it's going to be more than a 50 basis point impact just from that on a year-over-year basis?

To be honest with you, Jeremy, I don't know exactly what that number is and the price of aluminum is still fluctuating right now...

Right.

...in the middle of the quarter, so.

Okay. Let me just ask a question then that on the glass, the plant expansion. And once you have that lamination line complete at the end of Q2, the internal revenues that you could support, not obviously including CGI, but kind of your legacy business, would that amount to about $325 million on an annual run rate? Is that in the ballpark?

That'll be dependent on what type of revenue we're looking at, new construction versus R&R; in others words, custom glass or stock glass. But yeah, I see us being able to support an annual run rate of approximately $320 million.

Okay. And so, then if you were to move forward and potentially be able to supply CGI's product, as well as continuing to grow the underlying business, should we be thinking about additional expansions of cutting and tempering capacity, as well as another lamination line at some point, maybe late 2015 into 2016?

No, I don't think – not from a laminating standpoint. I was speaking of more PGT. So when we bring on CGI, we'll also add their custom volume in as well. And again, that can be offset by some of the rack and stock stuff we do in terms of the volume on the line itself. We'll offset that by shifting more of our rack stock quantities to our supplier. But we will not, at this point, this year, bring on another laminating line. The next thing we'd probably look to bring on, if we decided to do that, would be tempering. Right now, tempering capacity can be at a strain or stress point, because you really temper all the lights to a certain degree. So that's probably the next kind of expansion, and that's not until probably next year at this point.

Yeah, the other thing that we think we'll see, Jeremy, is the code change that's happening halfway through this year is a code change on energy, more so than any structural. It'll drive additional insulating glass needs. And so we're going to be watching our – we've got an insulating line coming in. But we'll be watching the capacities of our insulating lines really closely also, because that will – we do a lot of insulated glass right now, we still do some mono. CGI probably does a little more mono than insulating, and so we'll have to watch the drivers there.

Yeah, we just turned on – like Rod mentioned, we just actually turned on last week, our fourth automated insulating line, and it's in our new facility. And so we're starting to get volume off that line.

Okay, great. And then last question would just be on the new vinyl product. I'm assuming that in Q1, considering you just launched it, you're not really seeing anything in terms of the new vinyl product. When do you think that we should get a sense for how well that product is taking off? It sounded like the reception at the International Builder Show was pretty strong for that product. But can you give a little more clarity around that, the new vinyl line?

Sure. We just – we actually had a soft launch with a select number of our customers just several weeks ago, and it was well received. We had all our products displayed in various samples and various options from bronze to the woodgrain finish to the traditional light and the both non-impact and impact. And the feedback we got from, I want to say it was 20 or so of our...

Yeah, a little over 20.

...customers, a little over 20, was incredibly strong. They're very excited about the program, and we are starting, obviously, to sell it through those dealers. With a hard launch coming just in the next, what, week and a half, beginning of – end of March, beginning of March.

Yeah, March.

So the hard launch is right on the heels of our soft launch. We are expecting it to revolutionize this industry. I mean, we really put a lot of technology advancements in this product line. We reengineered it to take internal cost out, so the margins – over time, the margins will replace those of aluminum, as the aluminum lines obviously start to get impacted by the energy code changes. And we actually anticipate, long-term, it will be a better margin product for us. So really high input from our customers, very positive so far.

Great. And so that sounds like that can be a meaningful contributor, both to sales, as well as margin moving forward and maybe in the second half of the year.

Yeah, I would say definitely sales in the second half of the year. Again, like any new product, we got to get through the rough ends, if you will, of running it and put it through our system. The margin piece, I'd say probably fourth quarter impact, definitely next year. But there will be a transition from the old vinyl WinGuard to the new vinyl WinGuard, all of that has to take place. So there's a lot to go on in the next six to eight months before we really see the full benefit of it.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions and good luck for the year.

Thanks you, Jeremy.

Thanks, Jeremy.

Thank you. Our next question is from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank. You may begin.

Thanks. I just wanted to ask, kind of related to the last question on vinyl. What is the kind of sales level that you would need to kind of unlock the value, so your margins are kind of equal to aluminum?

Well, in essence, we just need to, first of all, replace the volume, if you will, of our current – old WinGuard. That's a strong – our current WinGuard, I should say – I keep saying our old WinGuard, but our current WinGuard is a strong volume contributor. The margins just aren't obviously as much as we want them. That will take place, that kind of cannibalization, that transition will take place over the next two to three months. And as long as we get that type of volume off our new line, we're going to start seeing the margin benefit flow through. The incremental change in the industry going to vinyl will just add to that.

And in terms of handling that demand, right, I would assume the employees that put together these windows, is there any learning curve going from aluminum to vinyl in that regard?

There is a learning curve when you go from aluminum to vinyl and there is a real small, maybe a tweak of that learning curve going from the existing vinyl to the new vinyl. There's a few things that are slightly different. So we'll take our existing folks that are really good at vinyl, and they're being cross-trained on the new product lines. So it won't be the learning curve of having to be used to cutting and assembling an aluminum window, which is quite a bit different than cutting and assembling and putting together all the parts of a vinyl window. But we'll be able to transition the existing employees into the new product line. As the old product line drops off and the new one ramps up, we'll just be moving employees back and forth between the lines.

Yeah, it won't be a learning curve experience like being – ramping up our glass.

Yeah, it's not like glass.

Not like that. And we currently have, like Rod said, vinyl employees that are not going to be doing the old SpectraGuard and old WinGuard and are going to be doing the new vinyl platform. So we think we've got a lot of good, dedicated employees that are already trained to do that. Vinyl right now is, I'd take a guess, 30% of our sales, Brad. I could see that – with the excitement in the industry, the change we're seeing, the codes that are coming our way, I could see that being 50% of our business next year as we continue to grow into that area.

Great. And could you quantify the pull-forward of demand that you kind of talked about?

Yeah, we mentioned on the call that we estimate about $6 million.

$6 million. Got it, okay. And then last question is just on the price increases. I guess, where are you getting the – or where are you pricing the – seeing the highest price increases? Is it CGI, WinGuard or your kind of regular vinyl product, normal windows?

Both.

Kind of just the differences between the three?

Well, first off, it was just a price increase on our CGI business – I mean, I'm sorry, PGT business that we talked about last time. The 3% to 7% was on the PGT side of the business only. And we're seeing it across the board. Obviously, our door offerings are very popular, but we haven't gotten any relatively minor pushback with anything on windows or doors. So it's been pretty much across the board we've been able to recognize that benefit.

Yeah, and it wasn't straight – I mean it wasn't like our WinGuard line went up 2% and our vinyl line went up 7% or something like that; it was selected products inside those product lines. We took a look at them, it was more like a surgical type deal than it was across the board, and it's been well received. The only – I wouldn't even say pushback, but the only negotiation factor is we're involved in some longer ongoing projects where we had locked in prices, and as those projects come to an end, customers will take some of those price increases. But we'll honor the price for the project, which will drag on for, in some cases, three, four months.

Got it. Sorry, one other one is what – I think you mentioned in the past doors were like 40%. Obviously, that's changed with CGI. What is that figure now?

You know, Brad?

Yeah, with the acquisition of CGI, I don't think it has changed all that much, to be quite honest with you. I mean, CGI's percentage of the total consolidated sales is not necessarily high enough to drive that kind of change, and they do offer windows and doors. So I don't know that that number would have changed materially.

Got it. Thanks.

Thank you. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Bradley West for closing remarks.

Thank you for joining us today, and we look forward to speaking to you again next quarter. And if you have any further questions, please don't hesitate to call. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thanks for your participation. Have a wonderful day.