corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter and Year-to-Date


PGT Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jeremy and I will be your coordinator for today.


[Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call Mr. Jeff Jackson, CFO.


Sir you may proceed.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, CPA, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you Jeremy. Good morning everyone. Welcome to PGT’s Third Quarter 2007 Conference


Call. I’m Jeff Jackson, CFO; and I’m joined by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO. We will


represent PGT on this morning’s call.


Rod will provide an overview of the company’s performance for the third quarter and year-to-date


and then I’ll discuss our results in more detail. We will also discuss our recently announced


restructuring and cost saving initiatives and our thoughts on the housing markets. Then we’ll take


your questions.


Before we begin, let me remind you everyone who is listening that today’s conference call contains


statements concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies and industry trends.


Such statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty.


Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. Please


refer to yesterday’s press release and our annual report filed on form 10-K with SEC on March 21,


2007, for more information. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-


looking statements.


A copy of the press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and pro forma information which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.


Our company uses non-GAAP measures as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A


detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures can be found in our Form 8-K filed yesterday.


These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in


accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe the presentation of earnings excluding certain items


provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present


operations.


With that let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Jeff and good morning everyone. We have a number of items to share this morning. First I


will highlight our results for the third quarter and year-to-date and then provide an update of some


of our key strategic initiatives for the remainder of 2007, including a recently announced


restructuring. Jeff will follow with a detailed review of our financials for the third quarter and year-


to-date.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As I mentioned in our press release the billing industry in which we operate continues to see


significant deterioration in new construction starts as evidenced by a decline in new housing


permits of 53% in the third quarter of 2007 versus the same period in 2006. Our revenues


decreased 26.5% over the same period due mainly to lower unit volumes particularly in our


aluminum WinGuard product line which was down 26% as well as our non-impact aluminum


product line which was down 45%.


As we progress through the quarter the housing construction downturn intensified as we


experienced a 29% decrease in housing starts compared to the second quarter of 2007, showing


further evidence that the market had not yet hit bottom.


Compared to the second quarter of 2007 our revenues decreased 9.4% due namely to lower unit


volumes in our aluminum WinGuard product line which was down 8% as well as our non impact


aluminum product line which was down 14%. We were able to offset some of the decline in the


industry by focusing on our repair and remodeling business or as we refer to it, R&R.


Compared to the third quarter of 2006, sales of R&R were essentially flat this past quarter and


down only 6% compared to the second quarter of 2007. It’s also important to note that as a


percentage of the total sales for the quarter, R&R sales accounted for 58% verses 42% for new


construction. This is quite a switch from the third quarter last year when new construction


represented 58% of total sales.


For the third quarter a combination of decreased volume and the higher cost of the aluminum,


partially offset by a favorable mix shift toward our WinGuard branded and architectural systems


product lines and a decrease in SG&A spending resulted in a net income of $1.1 million verses


adjusted net income of $8 million in the prior year’s quarter.


We continue to invest in our marketing efforts. Our marketing expense was 2.2 million for the third


quarter of 2007 versus 2.8 million in the same period a year ago. The spending in the third quarter


was focused on our R&R markets with an increase in consumer promotions and advertising co-op


allowance with distributors. We believe it is important to invest in this area during periods of


cyclical downturns in order for us to achieve our goal of increasing market share.


We remain disciplined in our spending with our sales, general and administrative expenses, which


we have decreased by 4.2 million from the prior year quarter. However as a percent of sales SG&A


increased to 25.5% compared to 23.1% in the prior year quarter due to lost leverage of fixed cost


within our SG&A.


Net income per diluted share was $0.04 for the quarter compared to $0.18 for the third quarter of


2006. Adjusted net income per pro forma diluted share was $0.04 for the third quarter versus $0.28


for the same period in the prior year.


Year-to-date 2007 new housing permits in our primary markets were down 49% while our net sales


were down 26%. Adjusted net income year-to-date was 5.2 million or $0.18 per pro forma diluted


share compared to 27.6 million or $0.99 for the same period of 2006.


As mentioned in previous calls our plans for managing though the housing downturn includes


generating incremental sales and increasing market share through the introduction of new products


and expanding into new markets while focusing on improving operational efficiencies, decreasing


operating cost and conserving capital.


On the sales side, we have seen increased sales in our vinyl window and doors which were up 20%


for the first 9 months compared to the same period in 2006. We remain on track to launch our new


vinyl portfolio in the first quarter of 2008.