Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad West — Vice President & Controller, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — CFO, Treasurer, EVP & Head-Investor Relations, PGT, Inc.
Joshua K. Wilson — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Steve L. Dyer — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Michael G. Dahl — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Rob G. Hansen — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Robert Wetenhall — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT, Inc., Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Brad West, VP and Controller. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to PGT's quarterly investor conference call. We are pleased to provide an update on our second quarter results and discuss the progress we are making in 2013. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release issued yesterday.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies, and market outlook. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, rather they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please refer to our press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website, at www.pgtindustries.com. Included in the press release are; the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and statements of income prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed July 31 with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

For today's call, Rod Hershberger, our President and CEO; and Jeff Jackson, our Executive Vice President and CFO will provide an overview of our performance for the second quarter. After their prepared remarks, we'll have ample time to address any questions that you may.

With that, let me turn the call over to Rod.

Thanks, Brad. Good morning, everyone. We delivered our strongest quarterly sales growth since 2006, achieving 35.2% growth compared to our second quarter of 2012. This growth was driven by a combination of improving market conditions in Florida and market share gains.

As a reminder, approximately two years ago, we changed our strategic focus to concentrate our resources in our core market, Florida. That change in strategy have and continues to payoff. Macroeconomic conditions continue to improve as consumer confidence is increasing and unemployment is down. Also access to credit is improving, interest rates remain low and housing prices are on an upward trend.

In addition, Florida single family housing starts increased 32% during the quarter. Our sales and marketing programs also contributed to the growth in sales. We offered programs during the quarter focused on both consumers and dealers, which grow incremental WinGuard sales and improved our product mix. As a result of these promotional campaigns as well as the economic factors, sales increased in both the new construction and repair and remodel markets over the second quarter of 2012.

New construction sales in the second quarter of 2013 came in at $19.1 million, up 57.8% over the second quarter of 2012, while repair and remodel sales were $43.7 million, an increase of 27.2%.

Our aluminum products represented 73% of total sales and grew 32%. Our vinyl products represented 27% of sales and grew 49%.

A highlight within our sales growth is our vinyl WinGuard growth at 64%. Impact sales grew 38% over the second quarter of 2012 and represented 76% of total sales, compared to 74% a year ago. We see vinyl continuing to gain traction in our core markets and we have a strong line of products to serve this growing segment.

During the quarter, we successfully completed a secondary offering, which resulted in the sale of 12.65 million shares of common stock owned by JLL Partners. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares of common stock. In addition, we repurchased 6.8 million shares from JLL funded by refinancing our long term debt. JLL now holds 12,650,000 shares, or 27.7% and we now have a much larger and more diversified shareholder base and public float.

Our strong performance resulted in an increase in net income to $9.9 million compared to $3.7 million a year ago. The financial improvement is the result of the continued dedication of our employees, who worked hard to keep pace with the growing demand for our products and consistently deliver on our value proposition.

Second quarter's adjusted EBITDA was $10.9 million, or 17.3% of sales. This is a $3.1 million, or 39% increase over the second quarter of 2012. Adjusted EBITDA for the first six months of 2013 was $18 million, an increase of $6.9 million, as we continue to leverage our sales growth to the bottom line.

Gross margin dollars increased 27.6%, or $4.5 million, to $21 million over the second quarter of 2012. This increase was driven by strong revenue growth and improved operating leverage. As a percent, however, gross margin decreased to 33.5% of sales, compared to 35.5% from the second quarter of 2012.

The decrease in gross margin percentage is due to an increase in labor costs and scrap, resulting from the hiring and training of an additional 274 new employees in the quarter to meet the increased demand for our products. This is in addition to the 159 employees hired during the first quarter. Our total employee head count currently stands at 1,317 as we continue to hire into our third quarter. We estimate it takes six months on average for a new manufacturing employee to become efficient in terms of quality, labor hours, and material scrap.

Margin was also impacted by the purchase of finished glass units to support sales in excess of certain internal capacities.

As both quarterly and year-to-date revenue grew over the prior year, SG&A cost as a percent of sales declined from 25.6% in the second quarter of 2012 to 22.7% second quarter of 2013. Adjusting for fees related to the offering and debt refinance, SG&A as a percent of sales decreased to 20.3%.

Some highlights for the second quarter of 2013 include: an improvement in our mix as WinGuard product sales were up 38.9% from the prior year; selling, general and administrative costs, adjusted for fees related to the secondary offering and refinance were 20.3% of sales, a decrease of 5.3%; net income of $9.9 million; and adjusted net income of $7.7 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, after adjusting for our discrete tax item and fees related to the secondary offering and debt refinance; and adjusted EBTIDA of $10.9 million, up $3.1 million, or 39% versus prior year.

In summing up our second quarter performance, I'm excited about our results and optimistic about our ability to continue to improve our performance as we drive top line sales. I am thankful for the commitment of our employees, who have worked hard to meet increasing demand for our products.

Our results demonstrate the strategies we put in place over the past few lean years are working and we have the right leadership team in place to deliver on the significant increase in demand for our products.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff, who will review the results for the quarter in greater detail.

Thanks, Rod and good morning, everyone. We continue to achieve strong top-line results with sales up 35.2% in our second quarter and adjusted EBITDA up 39% over prior year. This brings our 2013 first half sales increase to 33% and adjusted EBITDA increase to 62%. We continue to leverage revenue growth during the second quarter, by reducing selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales to 20.3%, after adjusting for the fees related to the offering, compared to 25.6% in the second quarter of 2012. This strong leverage of our growth allowed us to report the best second quarter EBITDA since 2007 and report our highest earnings per diluted share since 2006.

Our quarter ended cash balance was $15.6 million, which included the impact of paying $4.6 million in transaction fees related to the secondary offering and debt refinancing.

We reported net sales of $62.8 million for the second quarter, a 35.2% increase. The continued strong pace of new construction remained a key driver as we saw our new construction sales up 58%.

Breaking down our sales drivers for the second quarter compared to 2012's second quarter: we have, our WinGuard sales were $45 million versus $32.4 million, an increase of $12.6 million or 38.9%; sales of vinyl non-impact were $8.8 million versus $6.7 million, up 31.3% over prior year; sales of aluminum non-impact were $6.3 million versus $5.2 million, up 21.2%; Architectural Systems sales were $1.1 million versus $600,000, an increase of $500,000; and our PremierVue sales were $1.6 million versus $1.7 million, essentially flat.

Gross margin dollars increased $4.5 million to $21 million for the second quarter of 2013. However, as a percent of sales, gross margin was 33.5% versus 35.5% in the second quarter of 2012. Our decrease in gross margin as a percent of sales of 2% was driven by temporary inefficiencies as a result of hiring new employees during the quarter to meet the increasing demand for our product, which negatively impacted margins by 310 basis points. The cost of purchasing finished glass units from our outside suppliers negatively impacted margins by 140 basis points.

Offsetting these were the leverage of higher sales, roughly 200 basis points and reduced aluminum cost of 50 basis points. We are addressing the increasing costs of labor and scrap by actively recruiting and hiring additional employees in order to reduce the amount of overtime hours required and engage our employees in training program to maximize both the quality of our products and efficiencies.

At times during the quarter, our overtime hours reached 30%. Our internal goal is to manage overtime to a 12% rate. We will achieve this by continuing to add additional direct labor and starting third shifts on various product lines.

In addition, to address our internal capacities for glass production, we have considered options to reduce our reliance on outside finished glass products, which is driven by our strong sales increase. We determine that the best course of action involves additional cutting and tempering lines in-house, which will increase our glass processing capacity to meet the demand for incremental sales.

Once plans for expansion are finalized and approved, the process will take approximately 13 months to complete. Processing glass internally as opposed to purchasing finished units strengthens our value proposition and improves our margins.

With regards to aluminum, our average cost of aluminum was approximately $0.88 per pound during the second quarter, compared to the second quarter of 2012's weighted average of $0.95 per pound.

We had spot purchases averaging $0.83 per pound, for approximately 72% of our needs; and hedge purchasing – purchases averaging about $0.93 per pound.

As of today, we are hedged at approximately 43% of our estimated needs through the fourth quarter of 2014 at an average cost of $0.91 per pound. The cash price as of today is $0.79 per pound.

Our SG&A expenses were $14.3 million, an increase of $2.4 million from the second quarter of 2012. As a percent of sales, SG&A cost declined from 25.6% to 22.7%. Adjusting for cost related to the secondary offering, our SG&A costs were 20.3% of sales in the quarter.

Highlights within SG&A include $1.5 million for transaction fees related to the secondary market offering and debt refinancing, an increase of $600,000 in employee related expenses, such as 401(k) contributions and employee incentive plans, and an increase of $200,000 in credit card processing fees as a result of revenue growth.

Interest expense was $700,000 compared to $900,000 in the second quarter of 2012. The decrease primarily relates to lower debt levels and the effect of a lower interest rate resulting from improved leverage. The new debt resulted in a further reduction to our interest rates for the remaining – for the remainder of the quarter. We expect interest expense to be approximately $3.6 million annually going forward off the new debt and our interest rate during this quarter was 4.4%.

During the second quarter, we reversed the valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The reversal resulted in recognizing a discrete tax benefit of $3.9 million. The reversal was based upon consideration of a number of factors, included – including recent earnings history and the forecast of future earnings which enabled us to conclude it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized.

Our tax rate excluding this discrete item was 0%, as we released a portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance to offset our regular tax expense. In 2014 and beyond, we expect to have an effective tax rate of 38%.

We had net income in the second quarter of $9.9 million or $0.19 per diluted share versus $3.9 million or $0.07 per diluted share in the second quarter of our prior year. This net income in the second quarter of 2013 includes the impact of the tax item, I previously discussed, offset by expenses related to the secondary offering and debt refinancing. Excluding these factors, our adjusted net income was $7.7 million or $0.14 per diluted share.

Our weighted average basic shares outstanding were $49.9 million during the quarter, down from $53.7 million in the prior year, due to our purchase of 6.8 million shares from JLL on May 28. At the end of the quarter, they were 45.7 million shares outstanding.

Adjusted EBITDA was $10.9 million for the second quarter of 2013 versus EBITDA of $7.8 million for the second quarter of 2012. The increase in adjusted EBITDA of $3.1 million is due mainly to $6.8 million attributable to the increase in sales volume and $200,000 from improvement in cost of aluminum.

Offsetting these increases was the $2 million impact of temporary inefficiencies resulting from recent hiring to meet increasing demand. An increase in material cost of about $900,000 due to the purchase of finished glass units related to certain capacity constraints and an increase of $600,000 for employee related cost. A reconciliation of net income and EBITDA, which I have just discussed has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

Turning to our balance sheet, as of June 29, 2013, our net working capital, excluding cash was $23.5 million, which increased $6.1 million from the prior year to support the increase in sales. This is primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable of $4.9 million as well as an increase in inventory of $2.2 million.

DSOs, days sales outstanding, improved at 33 days at the end of the second quarter compared to 34 days at the end of the second quarter of 2012.

Our free cash flow for the quarter was $5.1 million, mainly driven by EBITDA excluding non-cash items such as stock compensation of $11.1 million minus $4.2 million in cash invested in our working capital, minus $1.5 million in capital additions and minus the payment of approximately $300,000 for interest.

The strong momentum we witnessed during the first six months of the year is continuing as we recorded a 42% increase in sales during July. And I expect our third quarter to sustain positive momentum. From a market standpoint, we see continued strong growth in both new construction and repair and remodeling markets. We feel our labor – as our labor force becomes more seasoned, we will improve our leverage on the incremental sales growth.

With that, let me turn the call back over to Rod.

Thanks, Jeff. Our markets have shown substantial growth in the last three quarters and we will continue to focus on meeting market demand, taking share and operational efficiencies going forward. We will continue to capitalize on improving market conditions, invest in advertising to build brand awareness and focus on our commitments to quality to gain market share.

Our value proposition, which includes a premium pricing structure is proving instrumental in driving sales and market share growth. Our employees are committed to deliver on this value proposition and to succeed as part of the PGT family.

In conclusion, we are pleased with our recent performance, excited with our present opportunities, and believe the future will produce increased shareholder value.

With that, I'll conclude, and Jeff and I would be happy to answer your questions. Ellie, if you can take the first question, please?

Our first question comes from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James. Please, go ahead.

Good morning. This is Josh filling in for Sam. Congratulations on excellent quarter, guys.

Thanks. Thanks, Josh.

Wanted to talk about the gross margin headwinds from the new labor and the inefficiencies there. Obviously, there – as they get towards their six-month anniversary that's going to be helpful, but I assume this – July running up so well, you're also hiring more folks. So, can you talk about the slow over time of the gross margin improvements, not necessarily just the third quarter, but also beyond that?

Sure. First of all, just kind of breaking down as gross margins by product line, WinGuard gross margins for the second quarter was 40.5%, and kind of all other were 17%.

As we look at into the gross margins, into the future, the new hires are definitely starting to gain momentum in terms of efficiency. The past, I would say, three weeks or so, our direct labor as a percent of sales has been right at 11.2%, that's compared to the second quarter's percentage of 11.6%. So, there's already some improvement we're witnessing. We are still hiring. We hired approximately 15 to 20 on Monday, Rod, do you...?

Yeah. We hired about 20 people last week and about 15, 16 people this week.

Yeah. So, we are still hiring into the third quarter. Turnover is probably the biggest issue we're addressing internally from a leadership standpoint. If you look at year-end, we had approximately 1,012 people – so, 1,012 people at year-end, we currently stand at 1,317 like Rod had mentioned. That's about a 30% increase in head count in relatively short period of time – a 7-month period of time. Our turnover has been about 40%. The gross amount of hires we had is closer to 520.

So, as we go through the process, our goal is to retain – one, to retain people longer; secondly, to get the number of hours under control, as Rod mentioned.

Our overtime hours due to the spike in demand has reached as high as 30% at times on a consistent basis and we are going to address that by adding shifts on certain lines, which will necessitate the further need to obviously hire more people to do that. All this is variable labor by the way. The support departments aren't hiring one-for-one with that. We will add in the support departments over the back half of the year, but on a sparing basis.

So, as we do look to add more people, we're talking probably another 150 to 175 more people, I would say at the most, that we'd close out at the end of this year with, in addition to what we have now, net. Is that tough answer?

So, would it be fair to assume that you've gotten 40 basis points or so of improvement already, it sounds like, is that sort of a good quarterly run rate of improvements, as we progress through the year?

It's hard to peg that at this point to be honest with you. We're still marching through the quarter. I do expect to leverage better in the third quarter than we did in the second quarter, but we are still hiring, like Rod mentioned 15 this week, 20 the week before. So, we are still hiring and training. And as we spin up that third quarter – sorry, third shift, it will be less efficient.

The first shift is usually rule of thumb, most efficient, is more seasoned and is when we get more production, more throughput.

The second shift closely follows, we're almost at full capacity on the second shift, we're still actually hiring on that shift, but we will reach full capacity in this quarter on the second shift.

And again as we layer in that third shift, it will be a little bit less, it will be more of a challenge, because it is a third shift and typically those shifts are hard to staff, but can be a little bit more challenging in terms of training.

So, we still got our – got some things, we got to work through operationally. I can tell you, we've got a team working on it, that's in place; it's the same team that help us – that help lead us through the downturn. They're now in place to lead us through an upturn. And we've got various initiatives in place. And I feel confident that we will improve gross margin over the back half of the year, I just don't know about how much.

Hey, Josh probably a good rule of thumb for you to look at is, when we're growing between 30% and 40%, we're going to create some inefficiencies, because we have to hire a lot of people. When that drops to 20% to 30%, we're going to pick up a few basis points and when it gets below that we can run pretty efficiently once the employees are trained. So, it kind of gives you a little rule of thumb to look at.

That's excellent color. I definitely appreciate that. And dropping to the SGA (sic) [SG&A] (25:20) line, where do you pick the fixed portion of those costs given the new staffing levels?

As a percent of total?

Of Total SGA (sic) [SG&A] (25:30), yeah, I know most of your hiring has been on the COGS line, but if you give us an update on that?

Yeah. We're still – we're still running about 80% of fixed SG&A expenses. The biggest variable components are going to be within distribution. Distribution is not totally variable, but it's definitely semi-variable. And obviously, commission total variable and AIP, annual incentive plan is within that categories as well and that's variable to plan, so those are the bigger buckets, but we're still about 80% fixed there.

Okay. And if I could just squeeze one last one in, could you talk about how the ERP rollouts progressing, what – maybe what lines you've guided on so far and what you've learned? And when you plan to roll it out to the impact lines of any safe guards you have in place to make sure that's a smooth process?

Sure, sure. This isn't our first barbecue, when it comes to the ERP rollout. I've done it in past companies as well as we've done it here. And we developed the original [indiscernible] (26:37). What I would say there, it's going according to plan. ERP is always a challenge, but I think we've got the resources behind it. We've got a good supplier that's providing the software, et cetera on the consulting side of the business. We are on schedule to get this done and implemented total switch on by basically this time next year is our goal – into the second quarter of next year.

The areas which it is working, obviously, the finance piece of the business is currently on the new system. The first production side, we implemented was in the Eze-Breeze product line followed closely by Storefront. And what we did, we did those two categories, because there are kind of the least impact categories, if you will, in terms of volume. And we felt like if we did those areas first, what we're doing is basically creating a skeleton, which we will then move to other areas and just turn on switches.

I know I'm simplifying it that you guys are probably rolling in the graves, but that's basically what happened. We've worked out all the bugs with Eze-Breeze. And Storefront is running well. And the glass operations is kind of the next portion that we're currently in, that's going to plan and then eventually, we will switch over and put that system into our impact lines and non-impact lines, in terms of windows and doors.

That process will be in the first quarter of 2014. So, we're not going to do it at year end, again because – mainly because of SOX compliance-related issues, not because the lack of confidence is just, if you do change anything real close to year-end, if there are any problems, you don't have time enough to mitigate it from a SOX control standpoint.

So, we've made a decision to put the switch, if you will, probably at the end of the first quarter, we'll run kind of some heavy testing and then probably go total live during the second quarter of next year at the end.

Thanks so much, guys. Again, congratulation on the quarter.

Thanks Josh.

Our next question comes from Steven Dyer of Craig-Hallum. Please, go ahead.

Thanks guys, congratulations on the terrific result.

Hey, Steve. Thanks.

Obviously, the cadence of the quarter was seemed pretty strong, given July was extremely strong as well, what percentage typically should we think about kind of, of Q3 sales come in July, obviously, as you get into the fall and winter thing slow, but how should we think about July, I'm assuming typically the strongest month of the quarter?

Yeah, I don't know that July is the strongest month. We don't see a big change in the middle of Q3. Right before school which is about this time period over the next couple of weeks, people focus on getting back to school. And it might be a little bit slower, but then it kind of picks back up. So, when you look at the weekly average as we go through the quarter, it doesn't vary a lot. So, I don't see it changing a lot as we go through the quarter. But things surprise us occasionally, but it's not a monthly-driven thing.

So, I'll add just a little bit more color to that. If you look at last year July, our average sales last year was about $3.3 million per week, this year we averaged about $4.6 million. If you look at the end of the second quarter, that average is running about $4.8 million. So, it fell off slightly from the end of the second quarter. If you look through July, you know, I would expect August and September to step up in that average, but in terms of average weekly.

But we have a holiday in there.

Yeah, but we have some holidays and whatnot. So, obviously, we had July holiday as well, 4th of July. So...

That's great color, thanks. And then as you talk about expanding the glass capacity, do you have sort of a CapEx figure in mind or is that still in exploratory stages, and when might that come online?

Yeah, I've got a number in mind. We're currently – obviously, we've discussed it with our board and they're very supportive. We're currently going through the process of finalizing the details of the plan itself and what it involves. I am also and [indiscernible] (31:39) to our banks, in terms of how we would handle that from a bank kind of covenant issue standpoint.

We will fund it from cash from operations. We are not going to take out additional debt to do this. If – right now, that target number, I would say, is anywhere from a low of $12 million to a high of $14 million. Again, depending on final negotiations with the general contractor, the final negotiations with the land we're going to buy.

What we decided to do is go ahead and build – the proposal that's on the table is to build our own building. We looked at several scenarios. We looked at a lease. We found a couple of buildings. They weren't exactly close to the facility, the closest leasing available building to meet our needs in terms of height, et cetera, was a good 35-minute drive plus through traffic. Those types of considerations were analyzed. We also looked at expanding just our existing buildings, but that would take up too much of our parking – current parking space, which we are in need of.

So, what we decided and proposed to the board that we would buy couple of lots, very close to the company actually on the adjacent road within Technology Park and that we would build our own building and house our equipment there. So, that whole process from start-to-finish is, what I was mentioning in my remarks is about a 13-month process. And I expect the cost will be, like I said anywhere from $12 million to $14 million.

Steve, it actually works out pretty well. If you look at the length of time it takes to buy the land and put the building up, go through the engineering process and the lead time on equipment they marry really well. So, it's not like it costs us more time or there is a faster way to get there or something like that.

Got you. That's helpful as well. SG&A looked really nice and lean in the quarter kind of when you back out the transaction expenses. How should we think about that sort of as a percentage of revenue as you move through the back half here?

As we move through the back half, I don't see that percentage, at least in Q3, changing that much given relative sales volumes. There's not any big spends in the back half that weren't contemplated or experienced during the first half. We've had a big marketing spend during the first half and really had it in the first quarter and we've reaped some benefits from that. So, there's nothing in the back half that would make me think, you won't see the same kind of leverage depending on sales obviously. Does that help?

Yep, that helps. And then last question, I may have missed it, so the reversal of the deferred tax asset, did you say then that's a full 38% tax rate going forward starting in Q3?

No, starting in 2014.

2014.

2014? Okay.

Yeah. What we did – and I'm going to – again, I'm going to explain it at a high level. What we did, was release our valuation allowance. That was a pickup for the $3.9 million. But we didn't release it all, so to speak. You still have an offset we're going to use over the remaining half of the – back half of this year, as we did in the first quarter or so, I'm sorry – second quarter to offset our tax expense.

Got it. Okay. Thanks, guys.

You bet.

Our next question comes from Mike Dahl of Credit Suisse. Please, go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. Great quarter on the top line, guys, really impressive and nice to see the growth continuing in July. I did want to ask, though, if I look at the components, it was interesting to see a really sharp acceleration in the non-impact product sales. And so, I was wondering, is there any loading effect from the business with Menards on the Eze-Breeze side or how should we think about that run rate going forward on non-impact?

I'll jump in a little bit and then Jeff can probably add a little bit more color to it. One of the things that we did and we announced earlier is we negotiated some contracts with national home builders or large home builders, where we kind of bundled our product line together, so for their – what we saw last year, when sales started picking up and new construction really started picking up is, our impact sales were growing pretty nicely. Our non-impact sales were not the low end of the housing market; it wasn't using some of our product.

As those sales have picked up, and we talk a lot about our value proposition and getting product out with really short lead times, on-time complete, making sure they can fill every hole in the house. As building picks up, that becomes more critical.

And our short lead times are really playing in, so we're seeing growth in the non-impact line, they kind of marry – it kind of matches the market. It's not necessarily that we're taking a lot of market share there, but it matches the market. We're grabbing a little bit of market share, because we're taking some business away from our competition, and that's what's driving it. So, I think you can kind of compare that to what the market is doing, particularly in new construction, and you'll get a pretty good flavor for what happens in non-impact.

Yeah. And I think just to add a little bit more to that. If you look at the non-impact lines, aluminum kind of [indiscernible] (37:14) known for, that particular, framing material, we were up 21% year-over-year when you look at Q2 this year versus last year in that particular line, but vinyl which is really gaining traction, especially, I'd say, what, North Florida, especially, but assuming [indiscernible] (37:22).

Central Florida, North. It's strong.

Yeah, it's very strong. We're up in that particular category, 50%. So, again those two areas are going to play and what Rod has mentioned, you know, the new construction homes that aren't in a code-driven area. They're putting in our aluminum and non-impact vinyl. And I think with our growth rates, we are probably capturing some incremental market share in those categories; Eze-Breeze, the Menards deal, obviously, a very strong positive momentum for that product line. Eze-Breeze is up 16.2%. So, Eze-Breeze that we feel will continue to grow if it's successful in Menards, at that kind of a percent.

If it's not, then we have other strategic initiatives in place, a DYI site, for instance, that will help drive Eze-Breeze sales. We've even looked at the West Coast at times for Eze-Breeze. So, there is various levers, if you will, to pull on that. So, I would look at continued growth in the non-impact side as well as you march through the remaining part of this year.

Okay, interesting. Thanks. And then shifting gears to the margin side, and digging a little beeper on the capacity expansion there. Given that timeframe now looking like end of 2014, the new capacity is going to up and running and then there is some – maybe some initial inefficiencies there at the same time that you're ramping up sales from current levels, how should we think about the finished glass purchases over the next few quarters? And understanding there is some increased efficiency on the labor side, but is that then offset by kind of the increased glass purchases in the market or how does that work together?

The – I think what you see or what you'll see, I can't really predict what Q4 and Q1 is going to do, but typically Q4 and Q1 are a little bit slower quarters due to the holidays. And then not really due to the weaker sales on [indiscernible] (39:35) but there is holidays involved in that, so you see some drop-off in sales. And with that little bit of drop-off in sales, it allows us the ability to manufacture a lot of our own product. We'll still have to buy some from the outside, but not as much as we do in Q2 and Q3.

We would hope that our plant would be operational by Q3 of next year, not end of 2014, if you look at the timeline involved, there will be a little bit of a learning curve, but not long. The products that we're adding in are the – what we're expanding there is – are things we've been doing for a long time and it's just a matter of getting the equipment and bricks and mortar in place, so that we can do that on more than the three shifts that we're doing right now. So, we'll have additional space to do that. So, Q2 of next year will affect us from outside buys. Q3 maybe slightly as we're bringing that curve up, but I think we'll have that under control pretty well by that time.

Yeah. To add to that, what hurts us in a sense is, we don't have a steady weekly volume of $5 million a week. If we did, we'd be fine, because you could plan the glass accordingly. But we've had a couple of weeks where it's been $6.5 million – we had $7 million a week and when we have that, we can't – what makes us different, what makes us able to charge a premium price is the fact we meet our lead times. We had to extend them on certain lines, but we're still well under the industry. And in order to meet those lead times, we have to buy glass from the outside, when demand comes in at that kind of pace.

What we're doing on that front is we have a great relationship with our outside glass supplier. We're expanding not only that relationship, but we're actually expanding and creating more relationships with other suppliers as backups, because what we found is the outside glass supplier has extended their lead time on us. I think the entire value chain kind of has shrunk. And obviously, with the recovery in the market, pressures are getting put all over the industry including our suppliers.

So, we've expanded our supply base. We will be able to meet the demand for incremental growth in sales, obviously, purchasing more glass from the outside than we want to, as we move forward. You will see a little bit of change potentially in that, because one of the areas we're looking into is a price increase.

As we look into the back half of this year, we've analyzed the market. We work with our sales folks, our distribution base and we think price increase is definitely warranted and the market will support that.

So, as we go into the fourth quarter, I think, could that curtail some volume, maybe, but we're going to be looking and taking a 3% price increase on the majority of our products. It won't be all our products. We're going to hold the Storefront [indiscernible] (42:51) and a couple of our other product line constant. But for our main product line, the WinGuard product lines, we're going to look to implement a 3% price increase that will be effective in the fourth quarter – partly through the fourth quarter. So, that'll also help with some volume as well. But we will be able to buy the glass, it'll just cost us in a short-term. We'll meet our suppliers expand that supplier base, which we're already doing. And obviously, as our employees become more efficient, we'll actually get more glass out of our current plants as well.

That's really helpful. And glad to hear that, you're in a position to raise prices here. That's certainly a strong indicator. Thanks.

You bet. Thanks. Thanks for the question.

Our next question comes from Steven Dyer of Craig-Hallum. Please, go ahead.

Yeah. Just a follow-up from me. What was the diluted share count, Jeff, at the end of the second quarter?

45...

And that is basic.

Oh, that is basic. Hang on, Steve, I've got it here in the notes somewhere. Let's see, the 45,733, that is basic share, I think...

Yes.

Basic shares.

Diluted share count at the end of the quarter was – now this is, this is the quarter average, all right. So, weighted average for the quarter was 53,142, 53,142.

Yeah.

I got that. I was just trying to figure out, since it was a blended quarter, kind of a good diluted number to use going forward?

Yeah. Unfortunately, that's not dependent on the price. What you might be able to do is notice that there is about a $3.1 million – or 3.1 million shares spread between basic and diluted. And again, you have to assume your own price for that, because that obviously affects the diluted count. But if you take the Jeff's number, the 45.7 million, our spread was $3.1 million at the end of the – for the quarter and that's probably relatively decent strategies going forward. But again, if the price goes up, the diluted share count goes up...

Yeah.

...and if price goes down and vice versa so...

Got it. Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Steve.

Our next question comes from Rob Hansen of Deutsche Bank. Please, go ahead.

Thanks. I just wanted to ask about the R&R being up 27% year-over-year. That seems like a pretty robust trend, and kind of continued throughout the quarter, because I think you mentioned it was up around those levels early in the first months of the quarter. So, I wanted to see if you could talk about whether any new business wins there. I think I saw some WinGuard product line at Costco, I guess, I wanted to see how that – how that's been playing out, and how much that sort of factor?

We – what we see more than anything else is strength in the housing market with housing values, housing prices going back up, a lot of consumer confidence, a lot of people thinking that now is a good time to invest in their house, people are selling houses at a much more rapid pace, it's a little bit more of a seller's market again, a little tough to buy a house here right now.

So, hopefully, that doesn't heat up too terrible much with what we saw in the past, but I think there's just a higher confidence level. So, people are doing some repairs. And I want to remind everyone like, we try to do every quarter, that it's a little easier for us sometimes to sell, impact windows into the repair and remodeling market, because it's code-driven, it's insurance-driven and code-driven, and it's not just a choice by the consumer to say, "you know, I got to make a choice, I'm going to improve my house, I'm going to remodel some thing." The window portion of it is code-driven and insurance-driven. So, there is rebates for insurance and there is code reasons to replace windows.

So, we're seeing that – we're seeing that pent up demand. We do have representation in Costco and a couple of the large clubs, but that really hasn't changed dramatically. We've had that for quite some time. It's just another method for us to get to the end user or a homeowner to make sure that they're seeing our product and understand what a PGT product is. We have great name recognition in our market, almost 100% name recognition in our market. So, we want to make sure that we maintain that. But my personal feeling and Jeff might add to it, but my personal feeling is housing values are going up. People are more confident and it's code and insurance-driven.

Yeah. I couldn't agree more. If you look at housing values alone: in Naples, we're seeing 30% increases year-over-year in housing prices; Fort Myers 32% increases; Miami is increasing. Unemployment, I think is a big driver of R&R. We've always said that and I've always kind of pointed to that and unemployment is at a 5.5 year low. So, all good indicators that help people feel confident about spending money in updating their homes.

Okay. And then just a question on some of the business at places like Costco. How does that work in terms of the installation – the installation of your windows is a little more complicated on the WinGuard side, because it's a premium product. Who – I guess, who is installing the windows from – when they buy from outlets like that?

The windows that are in places like Costco are lead generators. So, those will have dealers that are qualified. Costco qualifies the dealers and there are dealers, so we'll bring them to Costco, get them qualified if they can be qualified. And then, when the consumer expresses an interest in that product, that customer of ours actually goes out there and sells the product and the lead generation comes from Costco and there is a cost involved with that.

Okay. Got it. And then...

So, it still goes through our – yeah, I mean, we're such strong believers and it needs to go through our customers, it needs to go through our dealer, it needs to be installed properly and that happens.

Okay. That makes sense. And then on the 42% increase in July, just want to see how that looked – if there is any variation in terms of new construction and R&R there?

We don't – we don't look at that by month. I have a very confident feeling both those categories are growing strong in the quarter to achieve that kind of result. But we don't break it down there in a month and we don't – we look at that really at quarter end. So...

All right. I appreciate all the commentary. Thanks, guys.

Thanks. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Bob Wetenhall of RBC Capital Markets. Please, go ahead.

Hey, guys. Good quarter.

Thanks, Bob.

Thanks, Bob.

I was curious, you did terrific on the top line here. Your sales were up $16 million year-over-year. And Jeff had suggested that you guys are going at $4.6 million a week. Just trying to figure this out from third quarter looking to your top line. Should we be thinking more $55 million or closer to $60 million? And any thoughts on how you guys have looked demand wise since for July from a momentum standpoint?

Well, I'll comment as much as I feel comfortable about the third quarter. Again, we've never really given guidance. But, July was up 42%. Our second quarter, which is typically our strongest quarter, was up 35%. So, yeah, I think, as you enter the third quarter, you're going to see that kind of momentum continuing. What was the other question? I'm sorry.

Yeah. I'll jump in a little bit too. We're comparing year-over-year, so with second quarter typically being our strongest quarter, we're matching up against the quarter that's gone down a little bit in sales, that went down a little bit last year in sales. So, that's a little piece of advice.

And then looking forward, we have extremely short lead times − anywhere from a few days to a few weeks. So, we don't get to look into the future as far as some companies do. We also don't get cancellations, because the opening is there by the time the window gets ordered. So, we don't get a quite as good look at the remainder of the third quarter as maybe some people would.

Got it. And it's pretty obvious you got really strong demand, housing markets definitely firming aggressively in Florida. You've got some good velocity with that, the vinyl product in North Florida. I'm just curious why not take a 6% price increase, who cares about the elasticity, if can you – if you can get a price instead of volume. And have you guys tried this before in the past? Thanks.

Yep. Typically, what we've done in the past and we won't be the same going forward. But typically in the past, what we've done is we've become more efficient as a company and made a little bit more money and then as raw costs go up, our internal costs go up, we raise the price.

And at times, that has been difficult to do, because we've gotten a lot more efficient, costs haven't gone up and then all of a sudden they jump and we try to go out, there were some pretty large price increases. So, now we're trying to be a little bit more as you say [ph] elastic (52:47) with our pricing, so that we can get some price increases when needed.

And internally, it's a constant battle for us with the, how much market share can we gain, we know we're gaining market share now, versus where should we be on pricing. And I think it's a pretty good balance that we're seeing right now, because we're definitely taking market share by every measure that we have internally, which I don't think we're ready to talk about externally a lot. We're taking some market share. And we want to make sure that we balance that with the right pricing out there, because as the market becomes more stable and stops growing at the rate that it's growing, we want to be, the market leaders, again, how we can do a little bit more, what we want to do with our pricing. So, that's kind of the way we're looking at the whole pricing and market share structure.

Yeah, and I'll – I'll add a little bit to that. Even the 3%, it will impact volume. Right now, we are at least 15%, sometimes 20% higher than our competitors. And, with a 6%, it would – again, it creates even a bigger gap, especially if they decide to run promotions, et cetera. So, until we're hitting like a, I don't know, with 20% EBITDA, we almost got to 18% this quarter, about 17.7% – 17%, 17.7% EBITDA.

As I can leverage that up, we will look at potentially taking pricing again versus taking a one big 6%. But, it is something we consider. We still make money, a good money, off of outside glass purchases, even though we – obviously, it's a hit to our margin, we still make good money on those units.

If I could just sneak one in, if you had taken out the impact of the inefficiencies from bringing in new labor during the quarter and if you kept your volume and price the same, would your gross margin has been 35% or 36% and where can you see gross margin is going? Thanks a lot, guys.

Yeah. Yes, if we had no experience, I mean, we ran at numbers. If we would have hit those, again, we would have been at a 35% to – 35.5% gross margin easily. And we've demonstrated that in the past, just as recently as our fourth quarter of last year, our direct labor was 10.5% and less. And in terms of percent of sales, our scrap was much better. And we could have put that $2 million down to EBITDA. And you guys can do the math on that. It would definitely create a great EBITDA margin, and obviously, gross margin as well. So, as we get better and I'm not – again, we can't predict when, but as we get better our margins can be and will be in the 35% to 36% area.

Great stuff. Thanks so much.

Thanks you.

Thanks, Bob.

I would now like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Jeff Jackson for any closing remarks.

Thank you. We'd like to thank everyone for attending our investor call today and we look forward to speaking with you all again next quarter. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.