corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, and welcome to the PGT Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. At this time, I would like to turn the


conference over to Brad West. Please go ahead, sir.


Company Representative


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s fourth quarter 2009 conference


call. I’m Brad West, Corporate Controller, and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and


CEO and Jeff Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. Rod and Jeff will represent PTG on this


morning’s call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to


risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking


statements. Please refer to February 11’s press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other


documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligations to publicly update or revise any


forward-looking statements.


A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relation section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are, the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and


statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and adjusted information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for


evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can


be found in our Form 8-K filed February 11 with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not


intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather we


believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the


comparison of past and present performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the fourth quarter, and Jeff will


discuss our results in more detail. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Brad, and good morning, everyone. As I mentioned in our press release, new home


construction remains at historically low level as starts in our core market were down 28% in the


fourth quarter, compared to last year’s fourth quarter. However, we did see some signs of a


recovery including a 3% increase in single-family starts over the prior year fourth quarter. A modest


6% seasonal decline in sequential quarter starts, much lower than each of the previous two years,


where the decline was approximately 25%. A 44% increase in existing home sales compared to the


prior year quarter in our primary market of Florida and a decrease in inventory levels, compared to


the prior year in certain primary market cities, including 35% in Miami and 23% in Tampa.


Despite these promising trends, certain negative factors such as continued tight credit standards


and unemployment, which is still around 10% nationally and nearly 12% in Florida will likely


continue to make predicting the timing and extent of a turnaround difficult.


With pressures on both the R&R and new construction markets, our sales decreased 27%.


Compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, sales into the repair and remodeling market were down


14%, while sales into the new construction market were down 49%.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As a percentage of total sales for the fourth quarter of 2009, R&R sales accounted for 74% and


new construction sales accounted for 26% of sales, compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, when


R&R sales accounted for 65% and new construction represented 35%.


In previous calls, during 2009, I mentioned some new products were recently launched. I’d like to


update you on those products. We officially began taking orders on our new Sliding Glass Door in


October 2009 and totaled 1.3 million in sales during the fourth quarter, exceeding our expectations.


Our customers are thrilled with the improved aesthetics, clean design, ease of installation, and the


many new features the door offers. The product line also includes a high-performance Sliding Glass


Door. While we expect this new sliding door to eventually replace certain of our existing sliding


glass door product sales, we think its new design and features put us at the forefront of technology


currently in the marketplace, and will drive incremental sales into the future.


We also previously discussed our acquisition of the operating assets of Hurricane Window and


Door Factory located in Fort Myers. We branded this high and energy-efficient impact vinyl line


Premier View. These products provide long-term energy and structural benefits, meeting the


requirements of Miami-Dade for impact protection, as well as qualifying homeowners for the


government’s energy tax credits through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.


This product line was developed specifically for the hurricane protection market and combines


some of the highest structural ratings in the industry with excellent energy efficiency. Our official


[inaudible] launch was in January of ‘10 allowing our customers to order online.


Lastly, I’ll give an update of our SpectraGuard branded vinyl window products. We launched this


non-impact R&R vinyl window line last March and enjoyed sales totaling 4.3 million for the


remainder of 2009. We also continue to gain traction with our vinyl window targeted for the new


construction market, that was launched in 2008. We’ve recorded 3.7 million in sales of this product,


compared to 1.4 million in 2008.


In order to further capitalize on the success of SpectraGuard, we recently designed and launched a


new construction window specifically to meet the need of North and Central Florida market. We


continue to be pleased with the sales of our SpectraGuard vinyl product line and expect this line to


continue to provide geographic sales growth as we continue to focus on increasing our distribution


network in targeted states outside Florida.


Due to the success of our new vinyl products, our fourth quarter out-of-state sales were up nearly


20%, compared to last year. Out-of-state sales represented 8.3 million or 23% of our net sales,


which totaled 36 million for the fourth quarter of 2009. This growth is directly related to the


introduction of our SpectraGuard vinyl product line and success in setting up new distribution


outside the State of Florida.


For the entire 2009 year, out-of-state sales were 32 million or 19% of total sales. In the fourth


quarter, actually in late November, we took further restructuring actions to better align costs with


recent sales levels. These actions are expected to save us an estimated 3.4 million annually. We


recognized approximately 400,000 in savings from these actions during the fourth quarter and


expect to recognize the full benefit of such actions in 2010.


Comparing the fourth quarter to the third quarter of 2009, sales decreased 5.6 million driven by


both a decrease in new construction and repair and remodeling. Gross margin decreased to 1.9


million from the third quarter, due mainly to the decrease in sales and higher restructuring costs


offset somewhat by savings realized from restructuring activities. SG&A costs decreased 935,000


compared to the third quarter, also is a result of the same activities.