Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad West — Corporate Controller & Director-Finance, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PGT, Inc.
Sam Darkatsh — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates
Richard Shannon Paget — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT, Inc. Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Brad West. You may begin.

Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT's Third Quarter 2012 conference call. I'm Brad West, Corporate Controller; and I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO, and Jeff Jackson, Executive Vice President and CFO. Rod and Jeff will represent PGT on this morning's call.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies and industry trends. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, rather they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please refer to the October 31 press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and adjusted information, which is quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed October 31 with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP; rather we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

For today's call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the third quarter and the nine months ended September 29, 2012; then Jeff will discuss our results in more detail. After their prepared remarks, they will take your questions.

With that, let me turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger. Rod?

Thanks Brad. Good morning, everyone. During the third quarter, WinGuard sales, which generate our best margins, grew 9% in units and 4% in dollars, due in part to promotions we ran to capture additional market share in targeted geographic markets as well as improved new construction market condition. Accordingly, WinGuard sales represented 73% of total sales compared to 68% in the prior year.

Total company sales in the third quarter were down $1 million or 2%. Major factors contributing to the decline include lower sales of $1.1 million in our PremierVue products due to a reduction in low margin sales to one particular customer; and lower sales in Architectural Systems product, which decreased by $600,000 from the prior year, driven by the completion of a large retrofit project in 2011.

The improved product mix combined with continued improvement in operational efficiencies and the hard work and dedication of our employees resulted in the highest net income since third quarter 2006. We posted net income of $2.7 million compared to $241,000 a year ago; generated cash from operations of $7.5 million; and made an optional $3 million payment on our debt. EBITDA in the third quarter was $6.7 million or 15% of sales. This is an $800,000 or 14% increase over the third quarter of 2011 EBITDA, after adjusting 2011 for consolidation charges and manufacturing inefficiencies caused by the consolidation.

Within our core market, total housing starts were up 37% for the third quarter of 2012 when compared to 2011. Single-family starts were up 28% compared to a year ago. While growth in housing starts has improved every month this year, as a reminder this growth is off a low base and primarily in price point homes that have not historically included impact windows. However, the positive momentum evident in this segment of the new construction market is a welcome and promising sign.

Our gross margin was 34.1% compared to 28.2% for the third quarter of 2011, which after adding back consolidation charges and manufacturing inefficiencies would have been 29.8%. The increase of 4.3% in gross margin in 2012 was driven by both mix improvement and operational efficiencies and was offset by targeted promotional activities to drive share gains in certain highly profitable markets.

SG&A costs for the third quarter of 2012 increased $100,000 or 0.6%. This was driven by a $700,000 increase in employee bonus compensation and 401k expenses and a $300,000 increase in advertising expense to help capture market share, offset by $400,000 reduction in other employee-related expenses, a decrease of $300,000 in warranty cost driven by improved quality, and $200,000 in reduced bad debt expense.

Some highlights for the first nine months of 2012 included a mix improvement as WinGuard dollar sales and units were up 4% from the prior year. Gross margin percentage of 33.8%, up 530 basis points from 2011 adjusted gross margin; net income of $5.8 million or $0.11 per share; and EBITDA of $17.8 million, up $5.8 million or 48% versus 2011 adjusted EBITDA.

I'm quite pleased with our third quarter and year-to-date results. We grew sales in high margin products, and did so while maintaining very efficient operations. Looking forward, we will continue to focus on driving top line growth in key markets and leveraging our current cost structure.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff, who will review the results for the quarter and nine months in greater detail.

Thank you, Rod, and good morning, everyone. Our WinGuard product sales increased 4% over prior year. This was in part due to the promotions Rod mentioned but also due to an improved market conditions for new construction market. Our gross margin increased 18% due to operational efficiencies and improved product mix. We kept our SG&A expenses flat, achieved an EBITDA margin of 15% of sales and generated free cash flow of $7 million during the quarter.

Our quarter-end cash balance was $19.7 million, and we prepaid an additional $3 million of outstanding bank debt during the quarter, bringing our 2012 total bank debt to $5 million – total prepayment to $5 million and our net debt to $20.8 million. We remain financially strong and poised to take advantage of opportunities to grab brand awareness and market share gains. We experienced an improved leverage and expect to continue to experience this improved leverage and it to fuel our momentum we're currently enjoying and to help draw market share gains.

As Rod mentioned and as you may have learned from our earnings release, we've reported net sales of $44.7 million for the third quarter 2012, a 2.2% decrease over prior year. Breaking down our sales driver for the third quarter compared to 2011 third quarter, we have our WinGuard sales $32.4 million versus $31.2 million, an increase of $1.2 million or 4%. Offsetting the increase are PremierVue sales were $1.3 million versus $2.4 million, a decrease of $1.1 million. Architectural Systems sales were $600,000 versus $1.2 million, a decrease of $600,000. Sales of non-impact products were $10.5 million versus $10.8 million, down $300,000 or 3%.

Our gross margin for the third quarter of 2012 was 34.1% versus gross margin of 28.2% in the third quarter of 2011. After adjusting for consolidation charges and manufacturing inefficiencies caused by the consolidation, our 2011 gross margin would have been 29.8%. Our increase in gross margin percent was driven by improved operational efficiencies and lower scrap, 340 basis points; improved product mix at an additional of 140 basis points; cost of materials decrease, which increased our margins by 120 basis points. Offsetting these increases was the impact of the promotional activity, which lowered our margins by 170 basis points.

Our average cost of aluminum was approximately $2,019 per metric ton during the third quarter; comprised of spot purchases averaging $1,872 per metric ton for approximately 29% of our needs and hedge purchases averaging $2,080 per metric ton for 71% of our needs. This compares to the third quarter of 2011's average cost of $2,440 per metric ton. As of today, we are hedged at approximately 45% of our estimated needs through December 2013 at an average of $2,084 per metric ton. The cash prices as of today is approximately $1,900 per metric ton.

Our SG&A, sales, general and administrative expenses, were $11.6 million, an increase of $100,000 from the third quarter of 2011. Highlights within SG&A include $700,000 increase in employee bonus and 401k related expenses; $300,000 increase in advertising and marketing related cost to assist in our efforts to drive brand awareness. Offsetting these increases was our continued improvement in our distribution efforts generating approximately $400,000 decrease in expenses; decreased warranty-related expenses of $300,000, as we continue to improve quality of our products post-consolidation; and a reduction in our bad debt expense of $200,000.

Interest expense was $900,000 compared to $1.1 million in the third quarter of 2011. The decrease primarily relates to our lower debt and a reduction in interest rates associated with our credit agreement and improved leverage. During the third quarter of 2012, we recorded $60,000 of tax expense related to our corporate AMT liability. This resulted in effective tax rate of 2% for the quarter. We do not anticipate generating enough taxable income this year to exceed our current net operating loss carry-forwards, which are currently estimated to be approximately $27 million at the end of 2011.

As we become more profitable, we'll be in a good position to realize the deferred tax assets offsetting future income. We had net income for the third quarter of $2.7 million or $0.05 per diluted share, versus a net income of $2,000 or approximately $0 per diluted share in the third quarter of prior year. The net income in the third quarter of 2011 includes $100,000 in consolidation charges and $600,000 in excess operational charges.

Our EBITDA was $6.7 million for the third quarter of 2012 versus an EBITDA of $5.9 million for the third quarter of 2011. The increase in EBITDA of approximately $800,000 is due mainly to $1.5 million from improved operational efficiencies and lower scrap; $600,000 from improved product mix; $500,000 in reduced material costs. These increases were somewhat offset by $1 million in targeted promotional activity and rebates, and $700,000 in increased employee bonus and 401k expenses. A reconciliation of net income and EBITDA, which I've just discussed, has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

Turning to our balance sheet, as of September 29, 2012, our net working capital, excluding cash and assets held-for-sale, was $16.4 million, a decrease of $1 million compared to the end of the second quarter of 2012. DSOs decreased to 34 days at the end of the third quarter compared to 41 days at the end of the third quarter in 2011. Our free cash flow for the quarter was $7 million, mainly driven by our EBITDA excluding non-cash stock compensation of $7 million. We received $1.4 million in cash from working capital. We spent $800,000 in capital additions. We paid cash for interest of $700,000.

During the quarter, we prepaid $3 million on our debt, bringing our gross debt to $40.5 million as of the third quarter-end. This morning we paid an additional $3 million on our debt, bringing our balance to $37.5 million as of this call. As our third quarter progressed, we experienced a 12.9% reduction in sales for July when compared to prior year. This was followed by 2.7% increase in August sales and another 3.3% increase in September sales over prior year.

The growth experienced in the last two months of the quarter was a result of improved market conditions and targeted promotional activity we've discussed. As a result of this success, we extended some of our promotions into the fourth quarter, which is helping drive top line sales in October significantly above prior year. We currently estimate with our strong October sales plus our current run rate, positions us to finish the full-year slightly above prior year in terms of total sales.

Our increased cash flow and improved profitability have provided us new flexibility to take market share within our core market of Florida, by running targeted promotions and investing in our brand awareness. Our operations are well positioned to produce product to meet demand of current – of incremental sales, which will allow us to increase profitability by leveraging our current cost structure as the market continues to recover.

With that, let me turn the call back over to Rod. Rod?

Thanks Jeff. Our markets, while still well below normal, are showing signs of growth and we are well positioned to capitalize and gain market share. The company is looking to build on our recent successes, and our leadership is implementing strategies, which are designed to grow PGT sales and market share. Our employees and or customers are committed to deliver on our value proposition and to succeed as part of the PGT family. In conclusion, we are pleased with our recent performance, excited with our present opportunities, and certain that future will produce increased shareholder value.

With that, I'd conclude, and Jeff and I will be happy to answer your questions. Victoria, if you could get the first question, please.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hi, Jeff, Brad, how are you?

Good. Sam, how are you?

I'm doing well. I've got three or four questions, if I might. First off, some moving parts obviously with promotions and the such. How should we look, Jeff, at near-term gross margins? You're going to continue the promotions you said into the quarter, but you also have some fixed cost absorptions also. So would you expect some gross margin leverage near-term sequentially versus Q3 or does the promotion more than eat into that?

Well, it all depends on obviously you know, Sam, the total top line impact of that promotion. If sales are lower than the third quarter, it's going to eat into that, the total sales for any given quarter. Our overhead that's more or less fixed is probably 75% – or probably 80% fixed runs about $8 million consistently between the quarters in terms of cost of goods sold overhead. And so that's the portion that – when sales decreases, leverage goes the opposite of what we want to see.

So in terms of the fourth quarter, sales will be lower than they were in the third quarter because third quarter is our second strongest quarter typically any given year. So, you will see a little bit of decreased leverage of that overhead number I just told you. The promotion themselves will continue impacting us anywhere from that 100 to 150 basis points is what I would guess. But as I look into the fourth quarter, given our volume that we're currently anticipating, I'm thinking those margins – those gross margins are going hold fairly steady to the third quarter, maybe dropping some. I think we hit 34.1% in the third quarter; maybe we're at 33.5% to 34%, somewhere in that range, in the fourth quarter.

So, the 100 to 150 basis points hit from promotion, that's a year-on-year as opposed to sequential issue, Jeff?

Yes.

Okay, got it. Second question, I guess that leads perfectly into what the second question which was you said October was up significantly. The running joke is we analysts trying to put the word significantly into models and it comes up error signs?

Yeah. That's why I told – that's why I mentioned for the full-year we do expect to see sales growth because of the fourth quarter.

If you look back a little bit at last year too, last year's fourth quarter was not a great quarter. December was fairly strong; October and November were pretty weak months in that quarter. So we're comparing over a previous year that it's almost like plugging that same number in, there is really not a good number to plug-in there because that was a tough month in sales.

And you attribute the demand bump entirely to the promos or you're seeing some underlying recovery in the core business?

It's both. Obviously, the promotion is definitely helping us gain more momentum. But overall, the market conditions are better than they were this time last year. To Rod's point, last year's fourth quarter is our worse quarter, worst fourth quarter since I've been here. So we are definitely going to be over that; and that's why I was kind alluding for the full year, I think last year we came in at approximately $167 million in top line sales. We're going to be slightly north of that once the full-year is finished and that's going to be driven by fourth quarter results. October was our strongest month for the year, in terms of four week month. Now, you got to bake into Thanksgiving in November, a week shutdown for Christmas in December. So our November-December results, while we anticipate them being better than last year will not continue that same October cliff we've seen just because of the holidays.

Okay. Then the third question, can you give us a sense of the scale of the promotions in terms of ASPs on like-for-like product? What are – what types of pricing are you talking about and are they being matched, are you a leader, are you following the competition, how do we look at pricing in that vein?

Sam, we're not really going across the board on these types of promotions. What we're doing is – I think it's a little more surgical. We're going – we're talking to specific customers and arming them with the tools to specifically go out and take jobs or to take business away, as opposed to going out there and offering, you can offer a 5% or 10% discount or a consumer rebate or something like that that's kind of across the board and drives your entire margin base down or maybe changes the pricing in the marketplace. What we're doing is a lot more focused than that with some of our larger more significant customers in each geographic area that we target. So it's kind of hard to put out an entire basis on it because we're arming them with the tools they need to be successful and that maybe different in each area.

So the fact that you're looking to gain share from these promotions indicates that they're not really being matched across the board from a competitive standpoint that you are flying the banner largely by yourself. Is that how to read it or no?

Yeah. Sam, yeah, I would say are we matched at times to get jobs? Yes. We're going up against a lot of small players in this closed market, if you will. So at times, we're matched; but for the most part, arming the select dealers that Rod has mentioned has definitely paved the way. And while we are giving up some margin, the incremental sales given our current leverage makes it worth it. So, our average sales price we haven't down because like Rod said it's select. So if a dealer doesn't get pricing pressure, he's offering on a normal sale our same margin product. But if he does get price pressure from a competition, like Rod said, he's armed to go out there and meet or beat that in order to get volume. And again, he's working in conjunction with us obviously to make those kind of deals.

And our value proposition still holds, Sam. While we – in the years passed, quite a few years ago, we used to talk about 15% incremental increase because of the value that the PGT name brought. I think we could argue now that it's maybe not quite 15%, particularly in a new construction difficult market. But there is still a value proposition for being able to sell a branded product like PGT or WinGuard and we're still seeing that in the marketplace.

And that was for the promotions were targeted towards our – obviously, that impact product which gives us higher margins and a little bit more flexibility to run those types of promotions.

Last question before I monopolize this whole call here. Jeff, could you give us an update on the North Carolina facility?

Yes. As you guys know, we've got that – held that for sale for a while now. We had heightened interest over the last, I think, six months; several different companies have been in and out of that location. Most recently, some I guess stronger interest. We did sign a letter of intent and currently have a draft agreement circulating between us and a potential buyer. That agreement is standard industry kind of agreement. We haven't signed it yet, but it's very close and I expect it to be signed in the next week or so.

The price has been agreed upon. I don't want to disclose that. At this point, it is above book value of that property. So there will be a gain associated with it. But definitely some good interest and we're feeling that this buyer has the wherewithal and it's just a matter of the standard due diligence process that they'll go through to close such a deal. But we don't see anything getting in the way of that and we're feeling pretty good.

Can you remind us what the book value is of the facility?

$5.2 million was the net book value of the facility.

Hey, Sam, just a quick disclaimer. The letter of intent is non-binding, but we're feeling pretty good about this process going forward.

Very good. Thank you, gentlemen

You bet.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Richard Paget of Imperial Capital. Your line is open.

So I know it's kind of early obviously and not necessarily in your core geography, but how should we think about the potential impact for you guys with the hurricane?

You're right. It is really early to try to put a number or anything around that. We haven't – we've got a sales rep that's right in that area, that we've gotten some pretty reports back. From what we see – from what we think we see so far, there seems to be a lot more water damage than wind damage. But I think there'll be – if it follows track of almost every other storm that's been there, building departments will get together and start reviewing damage and what caused the damage and look at their building codes and make decisions as to whether they need to adopt more stringent building codes. Sometimes it's maybe just enforcement of more stringent building codes. But I think it's a little bit easier – early to tell what's going to happen there. I think the good news is, is that a lot of organizations have looked at rebuilding process and looked at companies that are good investments for it. And PGT's name has been mentioned a number of times as a long-term solution for impact resistance. So I would hate to give you any kind of numbers or any kind of prediction about what's going to happen on the rebuilding process.

Yeah. I would think the long-term awareness over the next 12 months will play in our favor. Obviously, the East Coast has gotten hit by two hurricanes over the last several years versus Florida none in the last seven. So that sheer fact there, I think, helps push code, helps push enforcement and will help push awareness and demand for the top products we sell. Now, how we align ourselves to take advantage of that, that's what we've got to do on our end.

Okay. So your ability to sell into the Northeast on a larger basis, would that require any kind of ramp up for you guys?

We currently have distributors in the Northeast. Right now, we're running a truck up there once every other week or so. But yeah, if we're wanting to ramp up full scale, we would obviously want to set up more – larger distribution base.

Manufacturing wise, we're fine. Distribution base may need to be larger.

Okay. And then you guys have been paying down debt. Is that any kind of I guess cash balance, let's call it, over $20 million that you get that would be the first use of cash, is continuing to pay down that term loan?

Currently, yes. I think regardless of what we do we're going to pay debt down here and there, just $2 million, $3 million or whatever. And we're always looking to potential acquisitions or whatever that could be used for cash or other uses. But whatever we end up doing, we're going to continue to chip away at the debt somewhat.

All right. Thanks. I'll get back in queue.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] There are no further questions in queue at this time.

Okay. Well, operator – thanks operator. Thanks for joining us today for our third quarter conference call. We look forward to speaking with you all again, as we close up the year into next year and reporting on the full-year. If you have any further questions, please call myself. Have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's program. You may now disconnect. Good day.