corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the PGT, Incorporated First Quarter of 2009


Earnings Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded. At this time, I’d like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Jeff Jackson. Please go ahead, sir.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s First Quarter 2009 Conference Call. I’m Jeff


Jackson, CFO; and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and CEO. We will represent


PGT on this morning’s call.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s conference call may contain statements


concerning the Company’s future prospects, business strategies, and industry trends. Such


statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to


risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking


statements. Please refer to yesterday’s press release and our most recently filed Form 10-K with


the SEC.


We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of


our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at


www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheet and


statements of operation prepared in accordance with GAAP and pro forma information, which was


quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.


Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.


A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our Form 8-K filed


yesterday with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the


presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe the presentation of


non-GAAP measurements provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison


of past and present performance.


For today’s call, Rod will provide an overview of our performance for the first quarter. Then I will


discuss our results in more detail. After our prepared remarks, we’ll take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Jeff, and good morning everyone. As I mentioned in our press release, the downward


pressure on the home building industry continued during the first quarter as new home construction


remains at historically low levels. Housing starts in our core market were down 50% in the first


quarter compared to last year’s first quarter.


In the face of this market, our sales decreased 24%. Low home prices and interest rates plus the


tax incentives for first time home buyers provided some beneficial economic effects during the


quarter, but continuing increases in unemployment and home foreclosures have eroded consumer


confidence.


Compared to the first quarter of 2008, sales into the repair and remodeling market were down 14%


while sales into the new construction market were down 45%. As a percentage of total sales for the


first quarter of 2009, R&R sales accounted for 69% and new construction sales accounted for 31%
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


of sales, compared to the first quarter of 2008 when R&R sales accounted for 59% of sales and


new construction represented 41%.


As talked about in previous calls, our plan for managing through the long housing downturn


includes driving sales, particularly in out-of-state markets and growing our dominant share in our


core market, Florida. We began taking orders on our new R&R targeted non-impact vinyl window


line in March. The reception to the product line has exceeded our expectation and we expect our


new product line to provide geographic sales growth as we continue to focus on increasing our


distribution network in targeted states outside Florida.


In the first quarter of 2009, out-of-state sales including the Florida Panhandle were up nearly 40%


compared to last year. Together with our joint venture partner ASI Ltd. we signed another unitized


curtain wall project estimated to generate 3.2 million in sales and total revenue over 2009 and 2010


and with the JV, we continue to bid on numerous opportunities both inside and outside of Florida.


We think that housing market conditions and the economy will remain difficult during the rest of


2009. While the new Federal Stimulus Package contains measures to increase home ownership


and additional measures to drive the purchase of energy efficient windows and doors, it remains


too early to predict the economic impact on 2009.


On a positive note, the economy began to show signs of stabilization recently as housing starts


increased in April and there have been signs of rising builder confidence. Also, the decline in home


values slowed and stock prices have surged since March.


Because the downturn has been so long and severe, any recovery will take time. But, stabilization


is the first step to a recovery. We recently took further restructuring actions to better align cost with


recent sales levels that we estimate will save $10 million annually. We are optimistic about our


long-term growth as we continue to grow sales out of Florida and to gain market share in Florida,


but in the near-term, we’ve remained focused on controlling costs and conserving cash.


Comparing the first quarter of 2009 to the fourth quarter of 2008, gross margin decreased 4.6


million from the fourth quarter of 2008, due mainly to lower unit volumes in our aluminum WinGuard


product line, which was down 16% as well as our non-impact aluminum product line, which was


down 15%.


SG&A costs decreased 1.2 million from the fourth quarter of 2008. Excluding restructuring costs in


the first quarter of 2009, SG&A decreased 2.4 million driven by decreases in personnel and selling


and advertising costs. Adjusted EBITDA decreased to 2 million in the first quarter of 2009 from 3


million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease was driven by lower sales, but partially offset by


the benefit of cost savings initiatives. Primarily driven by restructuring costs of 3 million but also by


a loss of operating leverage due to lower sales, we had a net loss of 6.7 million for the first quarter.


Adjusting for the structuring costs, our net loss was 3.7 million for the first quarter of 2009


compared to an adjusted net loss of 2.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. Adjusted net loss per


diluted share was $0.11 for the first quarter of this year compared to an adjusted net loss of $0.06


for the fourth quarter of 2008.


With that I will turn the call over to Jeff, who will review the results for the quarter in greater detail.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Rod. Let me give you more detail regarding our first quarter. We reported net sales of 41.5


million for the first quarter, a decrease of 24.3% versus prior year quarter. As Rod mentioned, new


housing starts in our core market were down 50% with Florida single-family home starts coming in