Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sherri Baker — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Bradley R. West — Senior Vice President-Corporate Development and Treasurer, PGT Innovations, Inc.
Keith Hughes — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Michael Rehaut — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Truman Patterson — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Marius Morar — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Joshua Wilson — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Margaret Grady — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Brendan Cutler — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Alvaro Lacayo — Analyst, G.research LLC
Maggie Wellborn — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the PGT Innovations, Incorporated First Quarter 2019 Earnings Call. Today's conference is being recorded. After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Sherri Baker, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Jessica. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on the call today. I'm honored to have recently joined the management team here at PGT Innovations and I'm really looking forward to meeting many of you in the months ahead. With me on the call today is President and CEO, Jeff Jackson; and additionally, Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Treasurer, Brad West. Brad will be available with Jeff and me on the question-and-answer portion of the call.

Earlier this morning, we issued a press release with our first quarter 2019 results and we have also posted a slide presentation on our website to accompany today's discussion. This webcast is being recorded and will be available for replay on the Investors page of our website at pgtinnovations.com along with the supporting slides.

Before we begin, please direct your attention to the disclosure statement on slide 2 of the presentation as well as the disclaimers included in the press release related to forward-looking statements. Today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that may involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to materially differ. This disclaimer is a brief summary of the company's statutory forward-looking statements disclaimer, which is included in the company's filings with the SEC.

Additionally, on slide 3, you should also note that we report results using non-GAAP measures which we believe provide additional information for investors to help facilitate comparison with the prior and past performance – and present performance. A reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is included in the tables attached to the earnings release and in the appendix of the slide presentation.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff for opening remarks.

Thank you, Sherri, and good morning, everyone. First, I'd like to reiterate we are very pleased to welcome Sherri to the management team of PGT Innovations. Sherri brings tremendous finance, accounting, and Investor Relations experience, as well as a strong understanding of manufacturing operations.

Additionally, I would like to thank Brad West for his leadership during his tenure as CFO and I look forward to continue to work with him in his new role which will be focused on strategy and corporate development, as well as maintaining treasury.

Related to the company's reporting, we have formed a new business unit structure comprised of two business units: the Southeastern Business Unit which includes Florida, the core market of our legacy business, as well as Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Caribbean, while the Western Business Unit includes the rest of the United States along with Canada and Mexico.

To be clear, these business units will be actual segments for purposes of financial reporting. You will see hear us reference these two business units from time to time in our earnings call and with earnings materials. I am happy to report we started off the year solid in our first quarter. Our Western Window Systems products continue to penetrate indoor/outdoor living market. And our strategic investments and our legacy business had resulted in increased adoption of impact products by our corporate builders and expanded our capacity.

Over the trailing 12 months sales of $732 million represents a 36% increase over the prior to a month period. With 21% of our growth achieved organically, our adjusted EBITDA is growing $41 million or 44% over that same period.

Following our acquisition of Western Window Systems last year, we became a national leader in the premium window and door space. We now have an expanded geographic footprint and a versatile portfolio that is rebalanced in nearly 50/50 split between repair and remodeling and new construction end markets. We believe this even mix has us well situated to serve Florida's growing population as well as our Western Business Unit where our penetration is increasing in indoor/outdoor living market.

Turning to slide 4, it is important to take a few minutes to review our strategy that is creating long-term value for our customers and shareholders. At PGT Innovations, we attribute our success to the continued execution of our four strategic pillars. Our first pillar is putting the customer at the center of our business and delivering 360-degree service before, during and after the sell to drive brand recognition and loyalty. During the first quarter, we launched the Western 3700 Series Vinyl Door which amplifies this pillar.

Several top national builders approach Western Window Systems looking for a high-quality vinyl door that [ph] rolls with this (00:05:22) to accommodate custom figurations and have exceptional energy efficiency rating. With the 3700 Series Door, we saw an opportunity to address a production builder market by bringing a lower price multi-slide door to the market directly targeting entry-level homes and expanding our overall addressable market while maintaining the strong margins Western products deliver.

Although, we are early in the new construction cycle for the 3700 Series Door, we expect long-term incremental market penetration from this expanded price point of homes we will serve.

Our second pillar is attracting and retaining top talent. We believe that a talented and dedicated team of employees is key to success and we strive to make our company an ideal place to have a career. One example of how we engage our employees and ensure they are part of the team is that for the second year in a row, we granted equity to every employee in the company. We are all shareholders together in it to win together.

Third, our future success depends on our investments in our business and scaling our operations to meet increasing demand. Achieving organic growth of 27% in 2018 was a significant accomplishment, and we could not have delivered this without well-timed investments in our production capabilities. To that end, we invested significantly in marketing, advertising and operational improvements during 2018, and have continued those types of investments into 2019. Year-to-date, we've invested in process automation to drive incremental efficiencies and expand capacity to improve our ability to timely meet increased demand.

And fourth, we expect to strategically allocate capital generated from our strong free cash flow to support our growth. Going forward, we plan to maintain a strong balance sheet and build cash that will provide us flexibility for future opportunistic acquisitions. Our strategic path forward involves reducing our debt and where attracted acquisition opportunities are presented, expanding our national footprint with a focus on niche building products and brands that yield strong margins and significant cash flow.

Now turning to our results for the quarter. We reported another quarter of solid financial results that tracked as expected with our overall full 2019 guidance. Both Western Window Systems and our legacy business grew revenue and profitability as compared to prior year. Despite the decline in repair and remodeling market overlapping our significant growth in the prior year period, we continue to see overall growth driven by the new construction channel both from market penetration in our Southeastern Business Unit's corporate builder channels and our Western Business Unit penetration and to market the products that unify indoor/outdoor living spaces.

Regarding Western Window Systems, our integration continues to be on schedule and well underway. We achieved meaningful progress in building the infrastructure to begin selling Western products into our legacy markets during the first quarter. Our expected first year annualized cost savings of $8 million, primarily driven by supply chain efficiencies where we offer greater economies of scale, began to be realized in the first quarter and/or reflecting on our current 2019 guidance.

Turning to slide 5, while certain regions of the national housing market have shown signs of slowing, we expect Florida to maintain its position as one of the fastest-growing state in the nation. With a population of more than 21 million, we continue to expect significant new construction growth potential. Florida had a compound annual growth rate of 14% in single-family starts from 2012 through 2018. And Moody's had forecasted a growth rate of 15% from 2018 through 2022.

For 2019, we expect Florida single-family starts of a 105,000 versus Moody's projections of 107,000 starts. And we continue to assume normalized Florida single-family starts of 125,000 will be achieved over the long term. In addition to this [indiscernible] (00:09:58) new construction tailwinds, we will continue to drive increased adoption of impact products in the corporate builder channels, driven by strategic investments in our business.

We also expect to continue strengthening our repair and remodeling market channel, albeit at a more normalized rate. Following an active hurricane season over the last few years, consumer awareness in impact-resistant products that can withstand tough weather conditions remain high.

On slide 6, we projected growth rate of the impact-resistant products market to outpace the regular window indoor market. In 2017, prior to Hurricane Irma, it was estimated that homes in Florida – of the homes in Florida, only 18% had impact-resistant windows, 13% had impact-resistant doors and 18% had storm shutters.

After a strong 2018, more homeowners have now taken advantage of the solutions provided by our impact products. Still, a large majority of the Floridians have no protection on openings of their homes to safeguard their property against severe storms. In order to take advantage of this opportunity, we have many initiatives in place involving marketing, product development and operations.

Related to marketing, we have refreshed our online marketing presence allowing customers to quickly find us and increase engagement. From a product shifting standpoint, we have refreshed our flagship PGT Aluminum WinGuard line with better styling for today's architecture. We have already launched a low-cost Aluminum line in our CGI Sparta brand to expand our addressable market. Operationally, we continue to invest in capital in ways that are expected to increase capacity and reduce lead times for our dealers to achieve or to receive our products as soon as possible.

Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Sherri to discuss the financial results in more detail. Sherri?

Thank you, Jeff. Turning to slide 7, I will review a summary of our financial performance for the quarter. We reported net sales of $174 million, including organic growth of $1 million or about 1%. In our legacy market, sales into our new construction channel grew 9% versus prior year. Our legacy repair and remodel channel declined by 4%, but as compared to record growth of 32% in the prior-year period.

First quarter sales included a sales contribution of $32 million from Western Window Systems. Despite a meaningful year-over-year down market in California, Western Window delivered double-digit sales growth versus the prior-year period through continued penetration in the indoor/outdoor living market.

Our gross profit for the first quarter was $61 million, up $16 million or 37% versus the first quarter of 2018 and our adjusted gross margin increased to 36% of sales, a 3-percentage point increase from the prior-year quarter, driven mainly by gross margin accretion from Western Window Systems' contribution to first quarter sales. In our legacy business, we were able to offset higher materials and labor cost with price increases and improved operating efficiency.

Within selling, general and administrative expenses, they increased $44 million in the first quarter of 2019, an increased – or they were $44 million in the first quarter of 2019, an increase of $15 million versus the prior-year quarter. The majority of the increase was attributable to the addition of Western Window Systems. The remainder of the increase is primarily related to strategic head count additions, equity stock compensation expense, and increased sales.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2019 was $28 million or a margin of 16.3% compared with adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2018 of $22 million or 15.5%. This marks an 80 basis point improvement in adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of sales.

Our tax rate for the quarter came in at an effective tax rate of 22%, which was below our guidance estimate of 26%, driven by excess tax benefits of $400,000 from our equity compensation plan. Our guidance going forward remained at a 26% effective tax rate.

We reported GAAP net income of $8 million or $0.14 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2019 versus $7 million or $0.14 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2018. Excluding reconciling items, adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2019 was $0.16 versus $0.19 in the same quarter last year. As a reminder, our 2019 earnings per share metrics are affected by the higher level of shares outstanding versus the year-ago period due to the equity offering we completed in late-2018.

Next, I will provide an update on our aluminum coverage program. As of today, we have contracted approximately 75% of estimated aluminum needs for 2019. Our current coverage is only for the LME portion of the total cost at an average price of $0.96 per pound. This does not include the delivery cost which today is approximately $0.18 per pound. We will continue to monitor tariff and trade environment effects on aluminum pricing, and, as appropriate, adjust our coverage program and pricing strategy.

Moving now to slide 8, I would like to review our capital allocation priorities. One of our priorities is internal investment in strategic growth projects that are core to our ability to drive future shareholder value, and we expect to continue to support our product portfolio by making investments in advertising and marketing which have proven beneficial to our growth.

Another priority is our commitment to debt reduction and maintaining a strong balance sheet. At the end of the quarter, our cash position was $45 million and net leverage was approximately 2.2 times trailing 12-month adjusted EBITDA. We expect to maintain the priority of achieving a conservative leverage profile within a range of 2 times to 4 times net debt-to-EBITDA in the absence of any additional large acquisitions.

Finally, another one of our capital allocation priorities has been and still is looking for strategic acquisitions and we will continue to look for attractive opportunities to expand into new geographies or other niche building products that offer strong margins.

On slide 9, we are reaffirming our guidance for 2019 that we provided last quarter. For the full year 2019, we continue to expect PGT Innovations to finish in the following ranges. Net sales of $775 million to $800 million, an increase of 11% to 15% compared to 2018. Adjusted EBITDA of $143 million to $152 million or an increase of 13% to 20% compared to 2018. And finally, net income per diluted share of $0.93 to $1.05.

With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Jeff for some closing thoughts. Jeff?

Thanks, Sherri. In closing, I would like to remind you of our five elements of our investment thesis on slide 10. First, we are national leader in growing premium impact-resistant and indoor/outdoor living categories. Second, we expect to continue to invest in talent and R&D to maintain an industry leader in innovation and product development. Third, we have ongoing focus on capital efficiencies – operational efficiencies expected to drive additional margin expansion. Fourth, we strive to achieve strong execution of our strategy to create long-term shareholder value and customer value. And finally, we believe we are well-positioned with a diversified product portfolio and expanding geographically to capture profitable growth in new construction and repair and remodeling channels. It is an exciting time to be a part of our family of brands and then quality team member here at PGT Innovations.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to the operator to begin our Q&A. [Operator Instructions]

We will now take our first question from Keith Hughes of SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Question on the sales guidance. You came in with what you thought for the first quarter. For the rest of the year, what kind of organic growth you got contemplated in that now?

Yeah. I think in terms of the full year, Keith, we're still comfortable with the guidance as we reiterated. Western, however, after the first quarter, it's probably tracking a little better than we had thought. They're actually up 12%. So, we have some hope there that that demand continues and backlog is actually building their backlog. So, I would say close to 50% over last year. So that's given us some encouragement.

The biggest unknown still is obviously the R&R market as we entered into hurricane season. Predictions are two to four major storms, the major hurricanes will hit the U.S., and that's the wild card for the R&R market. So – and towards the organic growth, we're pretty much flat until we get a better feel for the R&R market and the impact the storm could potentially have.

Okay. On the Western, I think you said you're up 12% in the quarter. Was that 12% driven by just kind of core business, California and some of the other states, or is that or I guess maybe how much of it was other initiatives whether it'd be Canada bringing products to West and things of that nature?

Yes, it's going to be a combination. Remember, California, Western's core market, was down almost 20% and despite that Western Window Systems is up 12%. So, that's basically just expanding their footprint geographically into the other markets that they've been trying to penetrate and success in doing that.

Texas is also and Hawaii are also up, Arizona is up. So, those are some other core markets of Western that we're experiencing some solid growth year-over-year that's driving more of an optimistic view of Western's execution despite California that we've seen.

Okay. Thank you.

You bet. Thank you.

Our next question will come from Jeremy Hamblin of Dougherty & Company. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Welcome aboard Sherri and congratulations on the strong results to the team. I want to just follow up here on Western for a moment and ask a little bit about pricing as well. So I think Jeff, that's a pretty big number that you're citing there, backlog up almost 50%, 12% growth in Q1. Can you give us a sense for – given that there is some softness in the California market in particular and maybe in Western markets overall, what are you seeing out there on pricing? Is this just a reflection of a change in architectural styling and demand for the indoor/outdoor living products? But can you give us a sense of what you're seeing on pricing and what's driving this continued growth in the WWS products?

Yeah. Well, a couple of things. We got to remember that the whole model is to continue to expand that indoor/outdoor living market. And they have the products that do that. So that's why I guess after seeing it – seeing them execute for the last few months here in – for the first few months here in 2019, we're definitely more excited about what they have to offer this year than we were last year. The 3,700 Series is out. That's been a big hit with their corporate builder program. California is still the wildcard. Like, I mentioned [ph] key is to (00:22:55) rebound. If it rebounds, I think we could have an incredible year with Western Window Systems. And we continue to build that R&R market. You'll see some costs in SG&A and administrative support and infrastructure, a meaningful infrastructure of sales to ramp up the R&R market. Probably, we won't see that benefit until end of 2019, early 2020.

In terms of selling into like PGT Innovations for legacy core markets, we're seeing a lot of good success there as well. We did get some products certified here in Florida this past few months and those products are now getting into the hands of our dealers here in markets that we previously didn't have that kind of product to serve. So there's been some upside there too. Brad, I don't know, if you can comment or Sherri, if you can comment on pricing with Western Window Systems.

Yeah. I guess, Jeremy, Western came out with a price increase this year on some specific products that was not an overwhelmingly large portion of our business. But I would say that their pricing strategy will not be different than anyone else's. It's mainly designed to cover an account of costs. Remember, their pricing situation is always different than legacy business. I mean, they're kind of priced more in the middle of their competition. So most of that increase that you're seeing is definitely coming from increasing volumes sold. It's not too much about price increase.

Understood. Thanks. And then, I wanted to ask about, your gross margins were up more than 300 basis points. And I think for the year, you had really talked to kind of a 35% to 35.5% gross margin range. But historically, Q1 seasonally is one of your lowest quarters on an adjusted basis. You're already at the top end of that range. Can you give us, first, kind of a breakdown of some of the components that added to that contribution to gross margins?

And then secondly, at this point in time, is it tracking a little bit higher than you previously had expected on gross margins?

Yeah. I'll take that. So the predominant amount – I'd say, first, that you would see – overly seeing our pricing and operating efficiencies are really offsetting our inflation. So the bulk of the accretion that you're seeing or improvement from a gross margin perspective is really from Western. And we would expect, I'd say, a normal seasonality that she would see as we move throughout the year, so we would expect that to increase. We are seeing our sales and efficiencies continuing to go throughout the year. So I'd say the combination of Western is the bulk of it with the offsetting in the efficiencies from an inflation perspective.

Great. Thanks for that color. Good luck this year.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. The first question I had was just to make sure I understood a little bit on the Western growth and also kind of your views overall in terms of your organic growth for the year. The 12% growth in Western, just to clarify, are you saying that – I assume you're saying that the market or maybe starts in California dropped 20%.

I was curious if Western itself had any growth or decline in California. And then, the other states and perhaps some early success in Florida was driving the growth that perhaps more than made up for any type of decline in California. Just trying to get a sense for what the company did in California versus the rest of the country.

No. Year-over-year, Western was down 20% in California...

Okay.

...for the Q1. And they were – despite that, they're up 12% year-over-year total growth. So, that basically means that they are executing in markets, like I mentioned earlier, Texas, Arizona, Hawaii, other core markets. And like I said earlier, we've actually had some of our first Western Window sales into the Florida market. So we're starting to get some sales synergies on that end as well.

So my outlook for Western is for them to basically continue to do the growth model that we purchased and that was keep expanding in geographic areas as they push the adoption or the desire to have that indoor/outdoor living feel as it grows out from their base. And that's what they're doing and that's what we've seen.

Got it. That's obviously very impressive, so great to hear on that. And then just on the organic sales, you're seeing ex-Western, you're expecting the base business to be flattish, obviously a very tough comp from last year. Would that be comprised of kind of a similar trend where – to the first quarter where down a little bit in R&R and legacy new construction up double-digits?

Yeah, I won't say double-digit. I'm going to tell you our legacy new construction is up 9%. So, our R&R is down roughly 3.5% to 4%, call it. And so if you look at that after growth of last year's R&R of...

30-plus.

30%.

Yeah.

30-plus-percent or something that. Last year's growth in R&R to be only down 4%, we're calling [indiscernible] (00:28:54) almost a win at this point, absent Hurricane yet. Again, R&R is driven by hurricane awareness and people wanting to protect their and safeguard their assets from the devastating effects of a storm. And 2017's Irma and then 2018's Michael, the storm that hit the Panhandle that's created – drove a lot of awareness that we saw over the last couple of years.

And we just entered hurricane season this year. So, we're very comfortable new construction is going to continue to grow. It could grow double-digits. I think it would be safe to say that what we've seen in the first quarter we think it's going to be more than 9% as we go through the year. And Western Window continues to execute despite being down, like I said, 20% in their core market. R&R is down and it will be dependent on [indiscernible] (00:29:47) continuing to utilize the impact of a hurricane and [ph] want to protect from it (00:29:51).

Great. No, no, and just one last one if I could. It was just a little hard to hear some of the comments earlier the – Sherri's comments on gross margin cadence throughout the year. I think she referred to some seasonality, I think typically your fourth quarter is a little less than your third. But just trying to get a sense from the 35% gross margin that we're seeing today, the middle quarter should still be a little bit higher. Fourth quarter a little bit lower. Is that a fair way to think about it?

Yes, it is. That's absolutely fair. That's what I would call the normal seasonality. We got it.

Great. Great. Thank you.

You bet.

Our next question will come from Truman Patterson of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to dig into the R&R outlook a little bit more. The revenues fell quarter-over-quarter which is a little unusual. They were down slightly year-over-year. Could you just give us an idea, do you think – what would take to drive this actually positive for the year, kind of absent a hurricane?

And do you think potentially this hurricane hangover could actually last in the repair and remodel portion of your business ended 2020, absent further hurricanes? And I believe you guys previously said that the mix shift away from R&R was about a 100 basis point margin headwind. Any update there.

Yeah. Well, I'll address the last, the mix shift away from R&R. With Western's growth of 12%, it actually is offset because Western margins are robust, and so that mix has actually been – helped us offset that lower mix in R&R. In terms of what will 2018 hold or 2019 hold in R&R, again Florida is the fastest-growing state in the nation. We'll continue to get folks in and these – the individuals moving to Florida at times, most of the time they not experience hurricanes. So once that hurricane cycle comes through, we have a very big drive for demand. After someone has been through hurricane, they want to do the impact products.

I don't think it's totally dependent on it. We did grow, I would say, 37% last year. And so when we grow 37% in one year, are you going to have some pull forward? Yeah. Sure. I'm sure you do. You have a lot of reaction to a couple of bad news and storms. But I don't – I think what we've done is moved the threshold of awareness for adoption. Florida still has an incredible market that doesn't – that's out there trying to put in our product because you remember in my comments I said roughly half of homes in Florida still don't have hurricane tech.

So I think what we'll see after the hurricane is just a more normalized R&R market once we caught this bad comp. So in other words, if hurricane didn't come, yeah, we're going to have a flat to down R&R market this year. If it does, I think it could increase. I think the [indiscernible] (00:33:19) not being 2020. I think in 2020 after the hurricane, you're going to see a standard 4% to 7% R&R growth like we've historically had.

Okay. Okay. Thank you for that. Just thinking about, you guys had a pretty good 1Q, but you left your EBITDA margin guidance unchanged. Just thinking through the parts I believe you built in about 40 basis points of headwinds assuming a 25% China tariff. It looks like China tariffs are remaining at 10% or maybe going to zero. And then, also, aluminum costs are trending down. I know you guys hedge those, but regardless, they're still trending down. Are there any offsets that we should think about to your unchanged margin guidance?

Yes. So I think there's still a couple unknowns Truman that are out there that's very early [ph] not (00:34:13) in the year that we wanted so be conservative in our thought process. One would be that R&R mix that Jeff mentioned and that's obviously a big part of our margin fluctuations in Florida. And then secondarily would be just what we're going to do on the [indiscernible] (00:34:26) synergies as we ramp up our Western business sale structure and R&R structure. So I think that's the main reason why you continue to see our conservatism.

Okay, Thank you, all.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from Nishu Sood of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is actually Marius in for Nishu. Thank you for taking my question.

You bet.

My first question is about – could you tell us more about where you are with the Western Windows Systems integration process, where are you in the integration phase?

Yeah. I mean, obviously, we closed it last August of 2018. We recognized, identified all the $8 million cost saving synergies and actually recognized – started recognizing in the first quarter which is reflected in our guidance. And we're actively setting up dealers in the Florida market. I'm aware of nine dealers that have been setup so far, bigger dealers that were in multiple locations carrying the Western product here just in our core market in Florida.

And we setup dealers along the East Coast as well, the distribution arm, we, we mean the legacy business was using. They have access to Western Window products and trained also. From a Western standpoint, they continue to execute on the product pipeline that was in place when we bought them. The simulated steel is doing well. They launched the 3700 Series Vinyl Door for the corporate builder market. That's doing well.

So we continue to see the execution of the items that were on the plate when we bought the company. And the team integration I think is going phenomenally too. Scott Gates is the President of that group. He's got an incredible team and they continue to drive and execute on the strategy that they laid out before us.

Do you guys have anything you want to add to that?

Nothing else. As part of the – when we were doing the review and using McKinsey to kind of look at the opportunities last summer, we certainly put forth and placed on the strategies that we were wanting to employ. And as Jeff mentioned, we're kind of going through that process now. So I think we're excited. You can see Western's results, despite the California market, suggest that what we bought was a product that has the ability to penetrate the marketplace and we're going to take advantage of that and do it.

Thank you. And then my second question, on your third quarter call last year, you talked about how Hurricane Michael is going to drive a change in codes, especially in the Panhandle which had less stringent codes. And I was just wondering could you give us an update of – on what you're seeing in terms of codes changing?

Yeah. I think – on our end, what we tried to do to the Florida legislature is push the adoption of more stringent codes in that area. Again, protect homeowners and their assets and livelihood, and it's still going through the process. That's probably at least a two-year cycle. They update the codes roughly every two years. So I know that there's talks about having to increase the code of the – the codes in that area.

Also, we've been pushing the Florida legislature to adopt some kind of sales tax incentive or [ph] black (00:38:17) thereof, if you will, that we have this hurricane tax relief for supplies for hurricane. We're trying to also push adding an impact product into that kind of initiative as well. So those are ongoing efforts that are still ongoing and have not reached its final conclusion.

All right. Thank you.

You bet. Thank you.

Our next question will be from Sam Darkatsh of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jeff, Sherri and Brad. This is Josh filling in for Sam. And Sherri, congratulations on the new position.

Thank you very much.

Good morning, Josh.

Glad to hear.

First question for me, what was your backlog as of the end of the quarter?

Are you asking from a dollars perspective or from a percent perspective?

Dollars, please.

It was a little over $68 million.

Got it. And then, regarding April, what have you seen so far in terms of sales growth both in the legacy business and Western?

You know, again, I don't want – we discussed during the quarterly guidance and more important, we're going to stick to more of the annual guidance we addressed. We're still comfortable what's out there and what we've given. And I don't think we're at a point where we want to comment on April or anything on the second quarter.

And regarding accounts receivable, that wasn't up quite as much as I had originally expected given the Western Windows acquisition. Is that just timing or some seasonality or some change in sales trends?

It's an excuse to drive to collect money. We are in a unique business as is Western Windows and everything is custom-made to order. And the deposits that are required are hefty upfront because you can't really use that product elsewhere. And I think given the overall demand in the market and demand for our products, we are in a better position to collect money and on our receivables at a faster rate.

Got it. Good luck with the next quarter.

Thank you.

Thanks, Josh.

Our next question will come from Phil Ng of Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. This is Maggie on for Phil. Just wanted to go back to Western, I believe when you acquired it, it was almost entirely new construction driven. Any update on how the penetration into R&R market is progressing?

Yes. Good morning. I would say right now we're in the early stages of building the R&R team and that's not only hiring, obviously the director I mean and then the sales reps that will actually be driving that but also identifying dealers within, let's say, California and other markets that Western serves that will carry the product. I think we're definitely starting building that infrastructure, but you're going to see meaningful sales into the R&R market to the back half of 2019 and early 2020.

Got it. That's helpful. And then, does or are you expecting Western to have a similar gross margin differential between new construction and R&R, like the legacy business or will that be pretty fluid or similar through both end markets for Western?

Yeah. Maggie, I think it's a little bit hard to say at this point, because obviously the market dynamics are quite a bit different when you time off inside of Florida and outside of Florida. I would say that Westerns' new construction margins are very strong and I can't imagine why the R&R margins would be any lower than that. I guess, the potential could be that they could be higher.

But it's kind of too early to say. So I think the conservative thought process would be from a modeling perspective that any kind of new growth would be about the same. And in the future, we can say it's the mix improvement that would be great.

Okay. And one more clarifying question. Sherri, you mentioned the backlog was $68 million at the end of the quarter. And I'm assuming that includes Western. How was the backlog and the legacy business tracking year-over-year either from a dollar or percentage perspective?

I think it would be both from a legacy perspective that the $55 million that is down roughly 28%. But important to call out, you have really got to factor in that we're overlapping the price increase demand that we have last year which we do not have in Q1 of this year, in addition to the increased capability to reduce lead times from our investments. So on a normalized basis, the backlog, I'd say, is overall similar to last year when you're adjusting for the three factors.

Got it. Thank you very much.

Our next question will come from Ken Zener of KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

This is actually Brendan on for Ken. So just continuing on backlog; backlog, you mentioned, was at $58 million or $68 million for the quarter?

It's $68 million all in, and then on the legacy side, it's $55 million.

Okay. And then so what was Western Window's backlog last year to the $13 million now that was about $6.5 million for – oh, sorry, it was up 50%, is that right?

Yes, it did.

Yeah. Yeah. On a round basis, it's between $13 million and $14 million. So it's kind of your delta between that $68 million and $55 million, it's just a round increase. But it is, you're correct, almost 50%.

Got it. Okay. And then given the SG&A as percentage of sales was up significantly in the first quarter with Western Window, how much of an SG&A drag do you expect for the rest of the years from that?

So keep in mind on a dollars basis, the predominant amount to your dollar increase is really driven by Western. It's the bulk of the dollar increase. But as a percent of sales, also keep in mind that Q1 is typically our lowest quarter. So I think last quarter, we were suggesting that we expect to see a range of, call it, 21% to 22% SG&A as a percentage of sales, and we would still expect that to be very similar to our expectations for the balance of the year.

Yeah. And I'll just add to that that SG&A includes basically $9 million of amortization on Western alone which was over a percent of sales for the year or so. And there's a good bit of non-cash amortization there that I want to make sure I understand.

Got it. And then – so with 2019 being a year of transition with the Western Windows business being in for full year and the tough R&R comps from IRMA in the legacy business, understanding you're not giving guidance. But do you expect an expansion into R&R for Western Windows to be a drag on the business at all as you grow in the back half of 2019 into 2020?

From an SG&A – this is Jeff. From an SG&A expense standpoint, yes, as we build that – the team, that infrastructure needed, the marketing [indiscernible] (00:46:05) is a whole different go-to-market strategy with R&R. And yeah, again, we're active in doing this. Some of those costs actually reflect in SG&A and you see in the first quarter.

So from an expense standpoint, the answer will be yes. It will be a drag, if you will, on investment I would like to call it. But we will start to see some of that benefit in 2019, end of 2019, like in the fourth quarter of 2019, but definitely should see it in early 2020, Q1, Q2 of 2020. We do expect some meaningful headway into the R&R market.

Great. Thank you.

Our next question will come from Alvaro Lacayo of G.research. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Sherri, I look forward to working with you and, Brad, it's been good. Congrats on all the good work you've done.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Jeff, I have a three-part question with Western Windows. I want to get a clear understanding of the magnitude of sales in Florida. It seems like it was small, but just want to get an idea of what the size was. And from a sales channel perspective, are you going to be able to leverage the existing dealer network or is this a whole other set of dealer network that you need to sort of build out?

And then finally, on the addressable market, you've talked about an addressable market in the past about impact windows. What do you think your addressable market in the U.S. is for the Western Windows product? And then, specifically, for Florida, how big do you think it is?

Yeah. I'm going to take a couple of shots in those questions. The magnitude of sales to-date in Florida is not meaningful enough to point out. What we've done is we've gotten nine different products certified, impact certified with Florida. And we setup mostly 9 or 10 of our bigger dealers that have showrooms and have the infrastructure of the bigger players. We've set them up to sell Western and we're actively training them. We have had a couple of jobs. The co-impact line is obviously growing here in Florida. But in terms of actual jobs, we've only had a couple actually turning to sales orders. I think you also mentioned the infrastructure about Western Windows and getting more of a national.

I was focused on – sorry, the ability to leverage your existing dealer network in Florida. If the idea is you're going to be using that existing dealer or is there a different channel and then just the addressable market in Florida and then in the U.S. overall?

Yeah. We will be using our existing dealer network. We're going to go through – we'll probably limit it to the dealers that are dealing more higher end homes and we'll definitely try to open up and give it to more dealers in the areas that we don't have enough exposure. And I'd say like the Orlando, Jacksonville area where we're definitely pushing penetration there. [indiscernible] (00:49:26) in the Western product inside area nicely. But we will use our current network to extend or in terms of a national, like I thought you mentioned the national presence for the Western product. It's already national. They have jobs of the Eastern seaboard all the way up to New York. It's just a matter of expanding that and getting out to more distribution.

And as Brad mentioned, we've introduced it to our – what we call our sales rep or distributor partner in those areas, and they're actively training their sales force to sell the product and actually they've had some orders. So that piece is going on and we actually feel Western's product line is a more national platform product line than the PGT legacy for the impact products.

Okay. And just addressable market here. How do you guys view it from a dollars perspective, how big...

Well, I think addressable market in say Florida is roughly... [indiscernible]

(00:50:33) the total impact market.

Total impact market...

We've got $1.2 billion.

Yeah, we're roughly $1.2 billion, approximately inside market Florida. We estimate over half those homes do not have products. So, that is a huge market there. In terms of Western specific which targeting market, their product in the impact and ability to take impact is not as robust as, say, a PGT product lines. So you're not going to – currently, we're not going to be selling Western Windows on the coast line only on the seaboard. That's more PGT, CGI or legacy product. What we've done is get Western certified at the lower design pressure, DP rating, for the inner Florida and for more – the Gulf Coast communities, Orlando, Jacksonville, those areas where code isn't as stringent. And those markets, again, are – I don't think I could put a dollar amount on this. [indiscernible]

(00:51:39) is more national base. But we needed the opportunity within Central Florida or not in the coast of bigger cities like Jacksonville, Tallahassee, Panhandle. And then also living is a growing phenomenon even in Florida. Contemporary living is a growing phenomenon in Florida. So why it may not be so successful right on the Coast and in the impact markets, obviously, there's quite a bit population of Florida that doesn't live on the coast, and that's growing as well. So I don't know I'm going to give you a number at this point. But obviously, we feel like it's an opportunity we're going to go after.

Got it. Okay. And then with regards to the new vinyl products for Western Windows with a lower price point, if you can maybe talk about the price point versus the traditional product? And then, if you could also just talk about the margins if they're similar versus the traditional product? And then finally, did I hear it clearly that you have anniversaried all your price increases from last year or will you still be benefiting from that throughout 2019?

Yeah. The last price increase that we did for PGT in 2019 was in the summer. So we saw it a little bit to anniversary the back half of this year.

In terms of the 3700 Series that Jeff and I talked about the new Western product, it tends to be a little bit more towards those $300,000 homes. The pricing will be [indiscernible] (00:53:08), but in terms of the design and the way we get the materials from our suppliers, Western has been able to maintain very strong margins in those categories and we don't expect to see a major mix issue with that regard. When it comes to Western, they tend to get higher profit whenever they sell doors as they have a little bit stronger market position for doors than they do for windows. That's the only kind of mix issue that we generally see there. But for the most of the part of the 3700 Series, it's the heavy platform [indiscernible] (00:53:41) as well. So, margins should be great.

All right. Thank you.

Our next question will come from Michael Rehaut of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hey. This is actually Maggie on for Mike at this time. I just have a quick follow-up question to an earlier comment. When you said that you're expecting SG&A of about 21% to 22% for the balance of the year, does that or did you mean for the remaining three quarters or for the full year?

For the full year.

Okay. Thank you.

You bet.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back to Sherri Baker for any closing remarks.

Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'm very much looking forward to talking to you next quarter. Have a great rest of your day.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.