Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bradley R. West — Chief Financial Officer, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — President, Chief Operating Officer & Director, PGT, Inc.
Robert Wetenhall — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Rob G. Hansen — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Sam J. Darkatsh — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Keith Hughes — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Kenneth R. Zener — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT Incorporated. Second Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Brad West, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you, Emily, and good morning. Welcome to PGTI's second quarter conference call. I am Brad West and I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, Chairman and CEO; and Jeff Jackson, President.

Before we begin our formal comments, I'd like to remind you that today's remarks contain forward-looking statements that fall within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These remarks involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. These factors are detailed in the company's financial reports.

We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. You should also note that we will report our results using non-GAAP measures which we believe provide additional information for investors to help facilitate the comparison of past and present performance. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to their GAAP counterparts is available in the Investor Relations section of our website.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger.

Thank you, Brad. Good morning and thanks, everyone, for joining today's call. I'm pleased to report our teams delivered strong sales and operational results in the second quarter with each of our brands making meaningful contributions to our overall performance. The quarter had record-breaking sales of $119 million and our highest EBITDA performance of $20.8 million since the second quarter of 2006.

As we expected, the market continues to be strong and our brands are experiencing solid demand across all market segments. As we previously shared, part of our long-term strategy has been to position our company to serve a broad spectrum of the impact-resistant market with brands strategically positioned to serve various segments of that market and to continuously expand our market leading offerings and capitalize on the predicted market growth. We are already seeing the combined power of our three brands as they are performing well, strengthening our capabilities and furthering our market reach.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Jeff who will review in more details the dynamics of our market and our operational performance that will lead us into the remainder of the year. Jeff.

Thanks, Rod, and good morning, everyone. As Rod mentioned, the market continues to be strong and is showing solid signs of growth after a sluggish start to the year. Our core market of Florida continues to lead the nation in terms of declining unemployment, job creation and overall economic activity. As the third largest state in the U.S. and the single largest factor for economic improvement in Florida continues to be the recovering housing markets.

Single-family starts in Florida were up 20% in the second quarter compared to the same period in 2015, which represents a positive quarterly increase of 19 of the last 22 consecutive quarters. We believe Florida will likely finish at approximately 75,000 single-family housing starts in 2016, which represents a 15% increase over 2015.

Still, the Florida single-family housing market has yet to return to its historical long-term pace of approximately 110,000 a year. To summarize, we are encouraged by the market conditions and continue to see demand across all of our brands and market segments.

Our backlog reflects this demand and recently topped $60 million including a 45% increase in backlog in our legacy brands compared to a year ago. This dynamic environment positions us well for a strong second half as we continue to increase capacity to meet growing demand.

Now I'd like to review specific details discussing our performance for the quarter. As Rod mentioned, our top line increased 18% to $119 million versus prior year. And we generated EBITDA of $20.8 million, our highest since the second quarter of 2006.

This is particularly impressive when you consider that our current year results were impacted by a shortage in the construction labor market and internal and external glass supply constraints. Pressure within the construction labor market is being felt nationally and in Florida in our dealer base across all our three brands.

Across our brands, the demand for energy-efficient products continues to grow, thereby increasing the demand for insulated glass. To clarify, insulated glass represents an additional glass and processing time to produce, which has created a constraint that has been felt both internally and at our external glass suppliers.

Despite these industry challenges, we believe we will continue through the remainder of the year. We were able to deliver excellent operating profits during the second quarter and continue to improve our output capabilities.

In fact, looking forward into the third quarter, July's organic growth was approximately 10% compared to 8% in the second quarter. Additionally, across the entire company, we shipped more units per week in July than at any other point in this year.

The fundamental drivers of our business continue to align to our advantage and we are diligently working to capitalize on this momentum. Our performance this quarter demonstrates our focus on achieving financial and operational objectives.

In the near term, our primary goal is to continue to increase capacity across all three brands. We will remain focused on the continued integration of our two acquisitions, which together with our PGT core brand and our strong balance sheet will continue to create shareholder value in 2016 and beyond.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Brad to discuss the financial results for the second quarter in more detail. Brad.

Thank you, Jeff. We reported sales for the second quarter of $119.0 million, an increase of 18% over the second quarter of last year. Second quarter 2016 sales include $10.4 million from WinDoor.

On slide seven we give you a breakdown of net sales for the second quarter. Our growth continues to be fueled by our impact products, which grew 22%. This growth came in both our aluminum and vinyl impact products with a strong 47% growth in our vinyl impact products.

Non-impact products had a 2% sales growth quarter-over-quarter with growth in the non-impact vinyl lines partially offset by a decrease in non-impact aluminum. Also in the second quarter, 58% of our sales were from repair and remodeling and 42% from new construction, which are consistent with the second quarter of last year.

Now please turn to slide eight and I'll briefly cover a few income statement items. Gross margin dollars in the second quarter increased $4.5 million over the second quarter of 2015. Our gross margin of 31.5% decreased 120 basis points from 32.7% for the comparable period. The decrease in gross margin was the result of running parallel systems as we finalized our ERP cutover during the quarter which reduced margin by 70 basis points.

Depreciation expense was also higher in the quarter as a result of higher capital spending, which impacted gross margin by 50 basis points. Gross margin was further impacted by 70 basis points due to a change in mix toward lower margin products. These negative impacts are partially offset by favorable material costs, which benefited gross margin by 40 basis points. The addition of WinDoor added 30 basis points to the gross margin in the second quarter of 2016.

With regards to aluminum, our average delivered cost of aluminum was approximately $0.86 per pound during the quarter compared with $1.01 per pound during the second quarter of 2015. We are currently covered at 37% of our needs through the second quarter of 2017 at an average price of $0.87 per pound.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in the second quarter of 2016 finished at 17.3%, increasing 70 basis points from 16.6% in the second quarter of 2015. SG&A expense in the second quarter includes $746,000 of increased amortization expense due to the amortizable intangible assets from the WinDoor acquisition. Excluding these expenses, SG&A as a percentage of sales was 16.6% in both periods.

Interest expense was $5.3 million, an increase of $2.4 million as compared with $2.9 million in the second quarter of 2015. Interest expense in the second quarter of 2016 increased as a result of a higher level of debt from the refinancing, which also carries a higher initial interest rate as well as higher amortization of financing costs, which reported $700,000 for the quarter-over-quarter increase.

Depreciation and amortization reported in the first quarter was $4.0 million compared to $2.6 million last year. Consistent with our expectations, second quarter depreciation and amortization expense was higher than the prior-year period due to an increase in amortization expense from the acquired WinDoor intangibles as well as higher depreciation from both WinDoor and increased capital spending.

Our tax expense in the second quarter was $4.2 million and represents an effective income tax rate of 36.5%. This compares to $6.3 million and 48.2% in the second quarter of last year. The second quarter of 2015 includes a $1.6 million non-recurring, non-cash accounting charge related to our aluminum hedges. Excluding this charge, our tax rate in last year's second quarter would have been 36%.

We reported net income in the second quarter at $7.4 million or $0.15 per diluted share compared to $6.8 million or $0.13 per diluted share last year. Adjusted net income in last year's second quarter was $8.6 million or $0.17 per diluted share.

EBITDA was $20.8 million for the second quarter of 2016 or 17.5% of sales compared to adjusted EBITDA of $18.9 million for the second quarter of 2015 or 18.8%.

Now please turn to slide nine for some balance sheet items. We ended the second quarter of 2016 with a cash balance of $29.5 million, up $12.8 million from our cash balance at the end of the first quarter. And during the quarter, we invested $4.5 million in capital expenditures. Our net leverage was 3.2 times at the end of the quarter and we continue to have a strong balance sheet with the ability to make further investments and fund future needs.

In conclusion, our outlook for the remainder of the year is in line with the market consensus for the back half. Other factors and assumptions in our outlook are also provided on slide 10 for your reference.

At this time, we would like to turn the call over to the conference operator, Emily, to begin the Q&A portion. Emily. [Operator Instructions]

Bob Wetenhall from RBC Capital, your line is open.

Hey, good morning and...

Morning, Bob.

...thanks for taking my question. Hey, you guys called out a very robust backlog figure of $60 million which is twice as much of your backlog at the end of the fourth quarter. Can you give us a little guidance on thinking about the second half of the year? You did not raise your guidance and you look like you are in line with consensus that the backlog is huge. And I just was hoping you could step us through what that backlog does for profitability if you move into the second part of the year.

Well, the demand is very strong which is obviously what helped us generate that backlog that we saw in the second quarter. But as we did mention that we do have some constraints both on the supply side and for labor and glass. So as a result of that, that's why we feel comfortable with where consensus is for the back half, which is a higher sales level in the second half of the year than we saw in the first half of the year. But the demand is strong and the backlog is definitely going to support it.

Yeah, Bob, I would just add our dealer base is extremely busy. We've just gotten back from two weeks' worth of dealer partnership council meetings with all our top dealers across all three brands. And the consistent theme was a tight labor market. Installation installers are few and far between. The markets there is robust, but we're shipping them as much product as they can handle at times. Even in July – at July, we had a $8.2 million ship-week, which – prior record was $7.6 million. So we're having spikes in ship-weeks based off demand and their ability to move that product into the channels. But we do think in the back half, we'll continue to hear that same message from our dealer base.

And Jeff, just on that, it sounds like you had an explosive July in terms of the organic growth. And you also came in lighter on WinDoor in sales, which is a very high-margin profit. Just trying to understand if WinDoor comes back to normal and is a bigger part of your mix and it sounds like the ERP issues are now kind of behind the company, how should we be thinking about gross margin? Is that something that some of the headwinds that impacted the first half of the year are fully addressed and are packed up and behind us, so now we can think about a step forward to a higher level of profitability especially if WinDoor kicks in or am I not getting this right?

No, I think you are. I think from an EBITDA perspective, you can expect a higher level of profitability in the back half and we've already experienced it in July. Internally, we're still working on our internal glass supply and we're actively getting efficiencies in production better there. If you look at WinDoor, incredible flow-through on that brand. 50%, Brad, is I think the flow-through, but roughly [indiscernible] (14:50).

Just in the last week alone, the last week of the second quarter, WinDoor missed about $1 million worth of shipment because they didn't get the glass. The frames are built. They're sitting in the plant that we just didn't get the glass shipped in. So that's a 50% flow-through on that approximately $1 million of sales. So I think we're still going to see those kind of hiccups in the second half just because of glass supply constraints and this is nationwide. We're hearing that from our suppliers, Cardinal, internal, we're seeing it. We'll work through it and work diligently through that to increase our output. But we do expect margins to improve in the back half as we continue to reap the benefits of leverage and the various work we've done operationally. I'd say 90% of the operational challenges we've had in the past are behind us.

Hey, Bob, just a little bit more color on the WinDoor side too because the flow-through there is incredible and it's great when we get those sales. They're project-driven. A lot of their sales are project-driven. So at the end of the month – we get to the end of the month or the end of the quarter when they've got a project that they're ready to ship and they're missing a couple of pieces of glass. We generally don't ship that project until it's complete. And that's why when Jeff talked about $1 million worth of sales in that last week, it's because you might be missing a truckload of glass, but you might be missing two or three pieces. But it keeps the project from shipping. So there is a little bit of concern when we look at the back half with how that's going to affect a quarter sales or the back half sales because we're not exactly sure when those projects are going to ship until that glass supply is under control. And it's not just U.S. glass supply. Some of that glass comes in internationally. So it's a problem that's pretty much across the globe right now.

So one final question and then I'll hand it over. It sounds like demand is great and glass supply is tight. And I know that you had talked about a potential for a price increase in the third quarter. How should we be thinking about the potential to realize higher selling prices given the fact that demand is incredibly robust right now and you're seeing tight supply? Thanks and good luck next quarter.

Thanks, Bob.

Yeah, both the CGI and PGT had announced price increases in the second quarter that have different impacts. The PGT price increase obviously being the most impactful was announced as a 3% to 7% price increase depending upon the product. Now that price increase will go in effect basically in September based upon shipments and lead time and will bleed in over time just because we have new construction prices that don't necessarily take as quick [ph] as effect as (17:39) on R&R. But we do expect to have a stronger realization of that price increase than we've seen in the past because of those supply constraints that you referred to and the strong demand.

Anything we could put down as magnitude that you could help us from the model?

I would say that, like I said, in September, we would start to see in the PGT side some of that price increase. But at this point, I think it's kind of early to say.

Got it. Thanks a lot. Got luck.

Thanks, Bob.

Your next question comes from Rob Hansen from Deutsche Bank. Your line is open. Rob Hansen your line is open.

Thanks. I just wanted to ask about the capacity increase that you mentioned. So is that specifically in the IG production? And I think last quarter you guys mentioned that you had plenty of capacity at WinDoor and that you were running out of space in Venice and you could start kind of shifting some of the capacity over there. So how is that kind of playing out?

Yeah. The capacity increase during the second quarter was mainly production around our vinyl product lines. If you recall, we introduced our new vinyl WinGuard. We had that product launch last year and a very successful launch and immediate demand was on that line. We've been able to increase that capacity to that line on a given day anywhere between 600 units and 700 units. With the end goal being Q1 of 2017 with about, I think, 1,400 units...

1,500 units.

1,500 units...

1,500 units a day.

...is the end goal. So we're increasing assembly side capacity for vinyl, the vinyl WinGuard line and that's ongoing. We have equipment coming in in the fourth quarter while there is [ph] extractor (19:42) machines that do that. From the glass side capacity, we have a lot of the equipment in place. We are installing a new IG line. It's called TPS. It's a new type of IG spacer we're installing, which will add to throughput and capacity. That will happen in this back half of this year and into the first quarter of 2017.

Got it. And the CapEx, what should we kind of expect in the back half of the year and should 2017 to be a little higher than normal as you're kind of increasing capacity?

No. At the back half of this year, we're still looking at $18 million to $20 million which does include the higher spend in the back half of this year because of those lines that Jeff referred to than what we did in the first half of this year. Going into next year, I would actually expect to see maybe the slightly lower capital spending because we spent a lot of capital this year on glass operations. So we obviously haven't gotten to our budgets to know exactly for sure. But when you look at total non-growth related capital spending, you're talking $8 million to $10 million. So anything that we do above that would be obviously with a growth project in line.

So just to clarify, this year's annual CapEx was anywhere between $18 million and $20 million annually. And today, we've probably spent about half that, Brad?

Just a little bit over $8 million.

Yeah. A little bit over $8 million, so we probably have another $12 million-ish maybe to go this year. Some of that can be timing of when you get the project going and get the actual equipment in terms of the actual spend. And we don't see that increasing next year. We see maintenance CapEx at $5 million to $6 million-plus and then project CapEx at $10 million-ish level. So we'll strive for a $15 million to $18 million CapEx next year in 2017.

Got it. And then last question just on gross margins. So I guess if you look at like the 12-month gross margins, that's somewhere around 30%. I know that this quarter you improved it here to 31.5% or so. What's kind of like the blueprint back to 34%? I'm just kind of thinking maybe you're going to get x amount on leverage, a certain amount on improving efficiencies. How do you kind of get back to that kind of bridge back to 34%?

Well, I think the gross margin improvements that you'd referred to, leverage and improve operational efficiencies as well as the capitalizing on the three brands that we have and the great margins that those brands can bring to the table are going to improve our margins from here. And we like to think about EBITDA margins from that standpoint. And we did a 17.5% in the second quarter and we're expecting an improvement in the back half. So we were going to keep executing to get those margins to the levels that we want them to be.

I think mix probably plays the biggest part in gross margin from here on out. You got WinDoor with a 50% flow-through. So obviously, the more WinDoor or bigger project sales we have, the higher our overall margins are going to be. Whether it's gross or EBITDA, that's going to flow through. So mix is a bigger contributor to margins in general than it ever has been.

Yeah. And we saw 47% growth in the vinyl side of the impact market, which is really explosive growth in that. And we announced [ph] ultimately (23:24) vinyl a year ago. We talked a lot about it over the last couple of quarters. And Jeff just talked about the ability to grow that line to 1,500 units a day as we get into next year's end-of-first-quarter timeframe. And it will take that timeframe to get that kind of volume flowing through to really start bringing the gross margin side up on the vinyl side. So I wouldn't expect an immediate change in Q4. But once the vinyl lines are running a little bit more efficiently and are at full capacity and have full blown lines, I think you'll start seeing that number go up also.

Great. Just one quick one. What does 1,500 units a day imply from the top-line perspective in vinyl?

That's so much product mix that goes in there because 1,500 units a day also drives a lot of doors. And I don't know. Off the top of my head, it would be hard for me to say because there's a mix of impact and non-impact.

In the second quarter for this – the quarter that we just had, we had $26 million in vinyl sales.

In between the two lines though -

The vinyl impact sales.

But that's both the new vinyl and the old vinyl...

Right.

...lines. So how many units was that?

You're probably looking at getting – up to 1,500 units a day is the one thing – it will start moving us closer to 50% vinyl as opposed to the current 35% to 40% vinyl we are now.

Yeah, it'll at least double.

All right. Well, I appreciate the commentary, guys. Thank you.

Thanks, Rob.

Thanks a lot, Rob.

Your next question comes from Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James. Your line is open.

Good morning, Rod, Jeff, Brad. How are you?

Good morning.

Great, Sam, how are you doing?

Great, Sam.

I'm well, thank you. Three or four questions here if I could. First off, you talk about when the internal glass capacity is added. What's about external? What are you hearing from your glass vendors be it Cardinal or whomever in terms of when they might be able to have much better lead times for you?

Yeah. I talked to our main glass suppliers which were PGT and CGI is Cardinal. I talked to the president of LG yesterday and we're meeting mid-August to talk about that very subject. They do plan on adding capacity and I need to provide them some thoughts on future growth on my end too. So that process is ongoing. I definitely see it happening on their end. In terms of WinDoor, WinDoor is kind of a mixture. They get the majority of their glass from overseas, Technoglass. We visited that location as well and that supplier. And they are also in the process of opening up a new line in Colombia as well.

Yeah. That line's going to be fairly exclusive to WinDoor. So we expect improved performance, but we're not going to predict it until we see it.

Yeah.

Is the current -

I'm sorry. Internally then, Jeff talked a little bit about some of the new lines we're putting in particularly on IG because we're seeing such a huge increase in IG. So we'll start seeing some internal improvement as we get through the third and fourth quarter of this year.

Do you suspect that Cardinal can add capacity in 2016 or is that more of a long-term thing?

Well, I'm going to talk to them on both fronts, both short term, Q3, and 2016 and beyond. So they can add capacity. It's a matter of adding people and they've been doing that. They ramped up when we requested that. We got a relationship there. They're a great supplier. And when we requested more glass, they added more people and started training. It's just a process. So I think they can add more capacity just for the long term. If you just think about us growing next year type numbers even if it's a some modest 10% top-line growth, you're talking a lot more IG glass. And between the two of us and maybe three of us here with our third supplier, we have to figure out what that looks like.

Yeah, because a 10% overall growth, and it's a great year, probably means 15% to 18% growth in IG. So it's not a one-to-one ratio because IG is becoming more and more popular with energy codes changing.

So this is a bit of a touchy-feely question, I suppose. But you're calling out two specific constraints, one being glass and one being labor. And I also understand that they're not necessarily all that different. But is it a bigger deal right now or a bigger constraint for you getting product out the door or is it a bigger deal that your dealers are struggling receiving and installing the product?

I would say equally. I'd say 50-50, Sam, is – if we could get more out; at times, we wouldn't have any place to ship it because our dealers are busy. So if we can get more glass in the backend, could we get more out? Yes. But again, the installation crews, the numbers of projects that are going on – and we have the biggest network in Florida. People are extremely busy.

Next couple of questions are more housekeeping if I could. Do you have, Brad, the gross margin of impact versus non-impact? And then how much of a drag was the vinyl mix to gross margin? And if you had said it in your prepared remark, I missed it. I apologize.

Yeah. The gross margin for impact was 35% and non-impact was 17%. And then I did say in the prepared remarks that we had a 0.7% year-over-year, so 70 bps year-over-year effect from mix. Some of that was vinyl, but some of that was also at our CGI brand. We saw higher sales of Sentinel which is their lower-margin product relative to Estate. So I'm not sure of the exact breakdown between those two, but that totaled 70 bps.

And then the last question I have or series of questions would be around the monthly progression of sales as Q2 transpired. I think you said July was up 10%. Do you have the April, May and June organic numbers?

Yes. So this would be 8% in April, 6% in May and then 9% growth in June. So definitely June was the strongest.

I think last year you called out a 5% to 10% benefit from the July 4 holiday timing. Was there any issue around the timing of the holidays that might have impacted the plus 10% in July positively or negatively?

This year, July 4 fell into the third quarter. So if anything, it would have been negative. So that 10% was a positive [indiscernible] (30:55) retain that.

Got you. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from Keith Hughes from SunTrust. Your line is open.

Yeah. A question just quickly on SG&A. It was $21 million in the quarter. Is that roughly what we'll see as we press through the second half of the year?

Yeah. But we did have a full quarter of expense related to WinDoor. So the second quarter had that going for it. We did also have, however, a one-time spend in the second quarter of roughly $0.5 million related to a customer event that we did in the second quarter. By comparison purposes, last year we did it in the first quarter. We will see an increase in dollars as sales goes up because there are some variable components to it. But for the most part, that is probably about an 85% fixed category.

Okay. It appears as a percentage of sales, it will be higher in the second half of the year though, is that correct, the SG&A?

Yes.

And for the reason that you mentioned, okay. So you seem to be [indiscernible] (32:04) that the EBITDA margin should improve in the second half of the year. So that means you're going to have to have the big step up in gross margin. Is that step up just from the better throughput through the facilities?

Yeah. Basically, leverage – we expect the higher sales across the brands to generate the higher leverage and improved margins, absolutely.

And mix. And again mix.

Yeah.

Final question. You've traditionally given us kind of discrete guidance ranges, fairly specific. I know you kind of stepped away from that and talked about the consensus number. Are we kind of changing how we do this in the future?

The thought process as we give the – kind of the annual guidance that we gave at the beginning of the year and within that range. We're still heading there. We do see that the second half numbers based on what's on the street is a pretty representation of where we feel it should be. So that's probably [indiscernible] (33:05) gave that kind of a...

Color?

...color, yeah.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from [indiscernible] (33:14) from SBR & Company. Your line is open.

Great. Good morning. This is [ph] Nim Cho for Alex (33:19). I have a couple of housekeeping questions left as well. Was there any weather impact in the quarter?

The weather impact that we saw in Florida really consisted in a lot of rain in January. So I think in the second quarter in Florida, there wasn't really any meaningful weather impact.

Got you.

But nothing we would call out. Again, Florida's had an extremely wet season. The lakes are pretty full and it was raining this morning when we came in. So I would say, if anything, weather hadn't had a meaningful impact, but it has rained a lot in the -

Yeah. First quarter is generally really dry here. Second quarter, we start getting into our rainy season. So it's wet, but it's almost always wet as we get into the second quarter. So I think labor is the big factor, not weather.

Okay. Also, it sounds like the WinDoor acquisition's progressing well. Is there any change to guidance in terms of the revenue impact from WinDoor in 2016?

Yeah. To the degree that the glass constraints' an effect to WinDoor, we could end up seeing them be at the lower end of the range that is initially out there. But they're still continuing to grow and we're developing some strong relationships with the customers. So at this point, I'd say I don't want to give a specific guidance number for sales. But with the glass supply, it could go down to the -

Yeah. Product demand there is good. It's the matter of supply to get product out the door. So we're not concerned necessarily about the demand, but we're more concerned about being able to ship at the high end or middle end of the range.

Got you. In one of the prior questions, you talked about Technoglass potentially opening up a new line in Colombia. Do you know when that could happen?

It's in the process. It's in the process right now being set up and ramped up. And an IG line doesn't take a – once the line's in, it doesn't take a tremendous amount of time. There's a little bit of training time involved in it. So we would anticipate seeing better results from that as we get through this Q3.

Yeah, it'll be this third quarter.

Okay, good to know. Also, in the past, I believe you've provided at least revenue guidance for the next quarter out. Do you have any guidance for the third quarter?

No. We talked about the reasons why some of those things are hard to predict. So that's why we're just comfortable with kind of what's out there right now for the third quarter. Jeff mentioned that July sales were higher than what we'd seen in any point of the year from a per week standpoint so that we are increasing the shipping and that's good.

Yeah. Overall, Q3 is going to be better than Q2 and Q4 is going to be a little bit slower. Q4 has always been our...

Yeah, Q4 has a lot of holidays.

...slowest quarter. So if you look Q2, we will increase top line in Q3 versus Q2. And then you're going to see that tail off because Thanksgiving, Christmas, all of that are – in our business, kind of slows down the second quarter.

Okay.

I'm sorry, fourth quarter.

In the fourth quarter, right. And then the final question has to do with the ERP system. Sounds like everything has been shifted over. Have you actually shut down the old ERP system such that the second half gross margin impact should be 140 bps better than the first half just tied to the ERP system excluding any other impacts?

We are 99% invoiced on the new system right now. So there are some products and some orders that are still [ph] stranded (37:10) on the old system. But shutting down the old system in that sense is not the key thing that needs to happen. We just need to have that new system, get used to it and be able to adjust to the great efficiencies we can get from it. So I do think we'll see improvement year-over-year in Q3 because obviously we struggled last year Q3 as we had that tough quarter from an implementation standpoint. But in terms of sequentially, we've talked about what we would do in the back half after the ERP has been implemented. And I called out 70 bps in the second quarter. I think we're going to see some improvement as we go into the back half as we become more efficient. And it's just how quickly we realize it.

And to put it in perspective, I think there's 50 windows left to ship out of the old system.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

Your next question comes from Jeremy Hamblin from Dougherty Incorporated. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. Wanted to ask just – I think I missed this on the prepared remarks. But what was the total growth in Q2 on a year-over-year basis in R&R versus new construction for the impact lines?

I'm sorry, I -

Total growth in Q2 in R&R.

Okay. So growth in R&R was – for PGTI, that's 15%. That includes WinDoor though. From an impact standpoint, we saw that it's an 18% growth, again including -

And what about impact, new construction?

Well, I don't know that it's substantially different. But basically, for the total company, we saw a 23% growth in new construction and a 15% growth in R&R, which equates to the 18% that we saw. And I don't know that it would be meaningfully different in impact and non-impact.

Okay. And then I think the way it calculates or kind of the implied sales number for WinDoor is about $10 million in Q2. In terms of thinking of the second half of the year for WinDoor, you mentioned that there is a shift in a $1 million project that probably you expected to hit Q2 that's going to hit Q3. Do you expect the company, in terms of Q3 and Q4, to see sales growth in WinDoor? Are you limited in terms of your supplier there from the aspect of not being able to grow sales in that particular segment?

I think we're limited in the overall – the supply limits kind of what can happen on a monthly and weekly basis. But I think overall, we do expect to see more sales in WinDoor in the back half of the year than we saw in the first half of the year because the markets and just because of the timing of the projects. Jeff mentioned that $1 million project. That could happen again. But I do think the overall concept of the second half of the year for WinDoor should be stronger than the first half of the year just because of the market and their pipeline.

Right. But year-over-year for WinDoor specifically, they did $22 million in the second half of last year. Do you expect that to be up?

Yeah. But how much? We'll have to wait and see.

Okay. And then just, again, a more specific kind of call out here on – so I can understand the guidance. I think what's implied by your commentary around consensus would be for $242 million in sales combined between Q3 and Q4. That's the number that you feel comfortable with, those combined numbers?

Yeah.

Without getting specific Q3 – okay.

Yeah.

Okay. And if you weren't to meet that, you would expect that it's more of an issue related to suppliers couldn't get us glass rather than demand?

Right. Because I think that the backlog and the growth in the backlog kind of confirms that.

Okay. And then just refining that even further, is it more specific to the vinyl side or would you say this is more of our traditional legacy, PGT, CGI business where if we were to not meet that expectation, it would be related to that as opposed to the new vinyl product?

No. I think the issues that we're seeing and that were referred to kind of affect the whole gamut of aluminum and vinyl. Now we obviously have a specific situation where we're trying to increase our vinyl capacity to meet the strong demand in that. But that being said, the glass issues and the labor constraints that we have, they affect both aluminum and vinyl.

Okay. Good [ph] type class (42:18) problems. Just to clarify on the SG&A, so if I strip out the $0.5 million or so for the customer event; that would imply, I guess, a run rate at $119 million in revenues of about $20 million in SG&A? I think your variable rate's about 12% or something like that. Does that sound about right as we look into the back half of the year that there isn't anything else that's funky about Q2 in terms of incentives comp that would make, let's say, Q4 which – again, consensus is at $116 million, you wouldn't suddenly see SG&A at $21.5 million?

Well, we do have typical spends in the back half of the year, some marking type spends as we look forward to the next year. I think it's a relatively good bet to assume a 12% variable rate. But we do have reasons for SG&A to be a little bit higher, I think, like Keith had mentioned in the back half of the year but still not to the point where it would offset our ability to improve our margins overall.

Yeah, I think if you look in the back half of the year, we have spends in advertising really around season. It's hurricane season. So we're out pretty heavy in the market advertising in June, July, August timeframe.

Okay. I think that just about wraps it up for me, guys. Appreciate you taking the questions and best of luck in the second half of the year.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from Ken Zener from KeyBanc. Your line is open.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Ken.

Good morning, Ken.

So the growth rates you gave into July, from April of [ph] 8%, 6%, 9%, 10%, (44:13) very solid growth rates. One of the things that we've spoken to you about is the slowing existing sales which is occurring due to lower unit volume at the low price points and high price points. Clearly, you're not seeing any of that impacting – lower existing home sales on second quarter impacting you all. The new side is the new side. Can you kind of just talk about that strength that you're seeing in R&R? Are you seeing more constraints there because your dealer channel absorbs all of your volume? So do you sense that those labor constraints are greater on the new side or the R&R side because there doesn't seem to be any relationship? There are certain lags, but it doesn't seem as though any of that slower activity is impacting you at all, which is a good thing.

Yeah, I would say it's across both, Ken. We see it across both. And actually, you probably have the bigger new home guys trying to steal labor from the smaller players by attracting them literally by paying them more per hour. We constantly hear that. So I see it across both. And you got to remember, our pipeline, our ability to look into the future really is our backlog, which we said is up right now into the $60 million range. With our lead times, we can't see past whatever, October. So will that change in the future? I have no idea. But right now, we do know it's still type four on the labor side for both new construction and R&R.

Well, it's very good to see that sustained demand. When you guys highlight WinDoor and the flow-through there is very impressive as well as the project value, I guess, is how I would describe it versus the past when you were taking in high-cost glass before you brought it on the IG side; are you guys [indiscernible] (46:18) allocation yet or is it just – well, how is that dynamic working? Because it seems as though that is perhaps one of the bigger constraints that you're facing in terms of the demand.

It seems like the back half is 53% of sales versus the front half, 47%. That's actually what you guys have been doing in recent years. So no surprise there. But if there was some lumpiness, it really sounds like you guys are throwing down the gauntlet that ERP is done. You're going to get obviously some sequential lift. Mix is going to be happening as you get more into that vinyl. How much could that window component from a volume basis impact your thoughts as well as perhaps inflation on that input cost?

Yeah, and I'll add we're not aware of an allocation, to your point there, that I'm aware of. I'd have to talk to our supplier that we haven't been told we're on an allocation. In terms of just running that kind of volume ourselves is something we don't want to do. Those are big panels. They take up a lot of capacity in our tempering ovens. And to be honest, I'd rather [indiscernible] (47:23) smaller stuff that I can feed PGT and/or CGI with versus the bigger stuff like for WinDoor. So I think capacity there – I'm hoping and we've got discussions with the supplier that that's more of a short-term issue. They are increasing capacity and we're going to get our share of it because we're a great customer and they make money on us. So I think I'm comfortable with that.

Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Thank you, Ken.

I am showing no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the conference back to Brad West, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Well, thank you, everyone, today for participating in the call and if you have any further questions, don't hesitate to give me a call. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day. You may all disconnect.