Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Brad R. West — Chief Financial Officer, PGT, Inc.
Jeffrey T. Jackson — President & Chief Operating Officer, PGT, Inc.
Rodney Hershberger — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, PGT, Inc.
Robert Wetenhall — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Jeremy Hamblin — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Keith Hughes — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Joshua K. Wilson — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the PGT Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Brad West, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, you may begin.

Good morning, everyone and welcome to PGT's quarterly investor conference call. I'm Brad West, CFO, and I'm joined today by Rod Hershberger, our Chairman and CEO; and Jeff Jackson, President and COO. This morning, we are pleased to provide an update on both our third quarter results and the integration of CGI. Hopefully, everyone has had a chance to review our earnings release issued yesterday.

Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today's conference call may contain statements concerning the company's future prospects, business strategies, and market outlook. Such statements are considered to be forward-looking. These statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Rather they are based on our current expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.

Please refer to our press release, our most recent Form 10-K, and other documents filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.pgtindustries.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited, condensed, consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP and adjusted information, which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.

Our company uses non-GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally. A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measurements can be found in our press release, which was included as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC. These non-GAAP measurements are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather we believe these non-GAAP measurements provide additional information for investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present performance.

We will provide an overview of our performance for the third quarter of 2014. After our prepared remarks, we'll have ample time to address any questions that you may have.

With that, let me turn the call over to our President and Chief Operating Officer, Jeff Jackson. Jeff?

Thanks, Brad, and good morning, everyone. Third quarter has been an exciting time for us at PGT as we finalize the acquisition of CGI Windows & Doors, a window and door manufacturer with operations based in Miami, Florida, and we opened our new glass facility at the end of the quarter.

The acquisition of CGI increases our leadership position and the impact-resistant window and door industry and strengthens our ability to compete against national suppliers by diversifying our product offering and increasing our REITs to the high-end segment of the impact-resistant market.

CGI will remain a separate and distinct brand in the marketplace and we will continue to operate in Miami, Florida. The combined entity will leverage back-end synergies and best practices to provide incremental value to all stakeholders. The acquisition was funded by $200 million term loan, which was used to fund the acquisition, pay off our existing debt and pay fees associated with the acquisition.

We also completed the construction of our new state-of-the-art glass facility. This facility is approximately 96,000 square feet and currently includes equipment to increase our capacity for both tempering and cutting. We began operations near the end of the quarter and have additional equipment ordered to increase both insulating and laminating capacity in the first half of 2015.

During the quarter, sales came in at $77.3 million, up 19.2% over the third of quarter of 2013. This improvement was fueled by continued focus in our core markets, as well as the improvement in the market conditions in new construction industry. We continue to shift in mix, as new construction sales grew 47% over prior year and represented 39% of our sales during the third quarter. This compares to 31% last year.

Our sales within the repair and remodeling markets grew 5% over prior year. Within the quarter, R&R was flat in July and August, but up 13% in September. We continue to see our R&R sales grow as we entered into the fourth quarter, with October sales up over prior as well.

Sales of impact product were up 19% over the third quarter of 2013 and represented 78% of our sales. In addition, sales of non-impact product grew 18% over prior year. Our quarterly sales, included the total for CGI sales for the last five days of the quarter ended September 27, 2014. During this period CGI generated approximately $550,000 in sales with an EBITDA margin of 22.3%.

Gross margin dollars increased $2.6 million, or 12.4%, over the third quarter 2013, after adjusting for costs related to the completion of the new glass facility. However, during the quarter, we did continue to experience pressure on our gross margin as a result of increased material cost, primarily related to purchasing finished glass units to support ourselves in excess of glass capacity and increased aluminum cost. Our margins were also impacted by shift in mix towards new construction.

To address our margin results in the fourth quarter, we expect to purchase less outside glass units, which we believe will have favorable 80 basis points impact during the quarter. Additionally, we have recently announced a price increase for PGT branded products, which will be effective for the first quarter of 2015. That price increase will range between 3% and 7% based on the product type. This increase helps offset recent increases we have experienced in such areas of healthcare and materials, including aluminum mentioned above.

During the quarter, our aluminum cost are running at $0.91 per pound versus $0.90 per pound in the third quarter and $0.85 a pound a year ago. We continue to leverage our selling, general and administrative expenses. After adjusting for the cost related to the acquisition of CGI, SG&A decreased to 16.5% of sales compared to 20.8% in the third quarter of 2013. We expect this leverage to continue as we selectively add cost to our structure to support our significant sales growth.

Net income for the quarter was $6.2 million after adjusting for cost related to the acquisition and related debt financing, as well as start-up costs related to our new glass facility. This compares with the $6.4 million in the third quarter of 2013. In this year's net income, the impact of income tax expense adjusted for the same items discussed above totaled $3.7 million in the quarter. We did not record significant tax expense a year ago in the third quarter.

Our adjusted EBTIDA was $12.1 million or 15.6% of sales. This is a $1.8 million or 18% increase over the third quarter of 2013. Adjusted EBITDA for the first nine months was $34.2 million, or 15.4% of sales, representing an increase of $5.9 million, largely resulting from higher sales.

With that summary, I'll turn the call back over to Brad, who will review the quarter in greater detail. Brad?

Thank you, Jeff. As Jeff mentioned, we reported sales of $77.3 million, up 19.2% over prior year, which represented our highest third quarter sales since 2006. We finished the quarter with adjusted EBITDA of $12.1 million, representing 15.6% of sales. Breaking down our sales drivers compared to 2013's third quarter, we have WinGuard sales of $55.4 million versus $47.1 million, an increase of $8.3 million, or 17.6%; vinyl non-impact sales of $10.3 million versus $8.3 million, up 24.1% over prior year; aluminum non-impact sales of $7 million versus $6.3 million, up 11.1%; PremierVue sales were $2.0 million versus $1.6 million, an increase of 25.0%; architectural system sales of $2.1 million versus $1.6 million, an increase of 31.3% and CGI sales were $552,000 between September 23 and September 27.

Gross margin dollars increased $2.6 million, or 12.4% for the third quarter of 2014, after adjusting for costs related to the completion of the new glass facility. However, as a percent of sales, adjusted gross margin was 30.4% versus 32.3% in the third quarter of 2013. Our decrease in gross margin as a percentage of sales of 1.9% was driven by a shift in mix towards new construction, reducing margins120 basis points. The cost of purchasing finished glass units from our third-party supplier to meet the demand from sales growth negatively impacted margins by 120 basis points. Employee and other related costs in connection with the higher sales base negatively impacted margins by 70 basis points. And the cost of aluminum extrusion and other materials, which negatively impacted margins by 40 basis points.

These factors were offset by the impact of the price increase announced at the end of the third quarter of 2013 and leveraging our fixed cost and higher sales, which improved margins by 100 basis points and 50 basis points respectively.

Our new glass facility is specifically designed to increase our internal capacity for finished glass units. We estimate that this initiative will improve our margins by approximately 1% in the fourth quarter and 2% in 2015 on average. However, the actual impact will vary from quarter to quarter based on top line sales and our internal capacities, which increase with the installation of our laminating and insulating equipment in the first half of 2015.

With regards to aluminum, our average cost of aluminum was approximately $0.90 per pound during the quarter. That comprised of both stock purchases for approximately 66% of our needs and hedge purchases for 34% of our needs. This compares to the third quarter's weighted average of $0.85 per pound in 2013.

As of today, we are hedged at approximately 34% of our estimated needs through the fourth quarter of 2015 at an average price of $0.90 per pound. The current cash price is $0.91 per pound. Our aluminum forward contracts have been entered into to manage our cash flows, however, these contracts do not qualify as effective and as such the impact of these hedges are recorded in other expense on our income statement rather than a component of gross margin.

We leveraged revenue growth during the quarter to reduce adjusted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales to 16.5%, compared to 20.7% in the third quarter of 2013. Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $12.8 million, after adjusting for the acquisition costs, a decrease of $600,000 from the third quarter of 2013, after adjusting for last year's secondary offering. Highlights within our SG&A include a decrease in amortization expense of $1.6 million, as our amortizable intangibles were fully amortized during the first quarter of 2014. This is offset by an increase of $900,000 in selling and distribution costs, consistent with our sales, and an increase of $100,000 in employee related costs.

Interest expense was $1.0 million, compared to $1.1 million in the third quarter of 2013. This decrease from prior year relates to the lower outstanding debt level prior to the debt refinancing near the end of the third quarter. Going forward, we anticipate annual interest expense to range between $11 million and $11.5 million. This includes the impact of our new outstanding term-loan of $200 million and its interest rate of LIBOR plus 425 basis points with a 100 basis point floor.

Depreciation and amortization recorded in third quarter was $1.2 million compared to $2.8 million last year. Going forward, as a result of the acquired intangibles and depreciation related to the new glass facility, quarterly depreciation and amortization expense in the fourth quarter, as well as 2015, is expected to be approximately $2.6 million.

Our tax expense in the third quarter was $1.7 million, which represents an effective income tax rate of 42.1%, which is higher than a statutory rate of 38.8%. The rate is higher than the statutory rate due mainly to the impact of acquisition cost and acquired net operating losses, which reduce the estimated favorable impact of the Section 199 manufacturing deduction in 2014. We recorded minimal tax expense in the third quarter of 2013, and we currently estimate our going forward tax rate to be between 38% and 39%.

We had net income in the third quarter of $6.2 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, versus $6.4 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013, after adjusting for the expenses related to the acquisition, debt refinancing, and the new glass facility. This adjusted net income of third quarter also includes the impact of $3.7 million in tax expense from operations. As a reminder, we recorded minimal tax expense in the third quarter of 2013.

Adjusted EBITDA was $12.1 million for the third quarter of 2014 compared to adjusted EBITDA of $10.2 million in the third quarter of 2013. The increase in adjusted EBITDA of $1.9 million is due primarily to $2.8 million attributable to increased volume and $1.1 million from our price increase announced last year.

Offsetting these increases was an increase in material cost of $1.1 million due to the increase of cost of materials, including the purchase of finished glass units related to certain capacity constraints, an increase of $600,000 from employee related cost and then $300,000 from increased cost in aluminum and other materials. A reconciliation of net income and EBITDA, which I've just discussed, has been included in our earnings release for your reference.

Turning to the balance sheet, through our value proposition, we have developed strong relationships with our customers. Our DSOs were 31 days at the end of the third quarter 2014, which is a decrease from 32 days at the end of third quarter of 2013. Our inventory churns, excluding the impact of acquired inventory are $12.8 million in the third quarter 2014. That's an improvement from $10.9 million at the end of the third quarter of last year. We've been able to keep inventory levels in check as we grow.

In connection with the acquisition of CGI, the following items were acquired totaling the purchase price of approximately $110.4 million: Amortizable intangibles of $26.3 million; indefinite lived intangible, specifically trade names, of $19.0 million; net working capital of $3.2 million; property, plant and equipment totaling $1.7 million; deferred cash assets of $7.2 million relating to acquired NOLs and a deferred income tax liability of $13.5 million relating to the non-deductable portion of acquired intangibles. The remaining unallocated purchase price of $66.7 million was recorded as goodwill.

Our free cash flow for the quarter was $4.3 million, mainly driven by EBITDA, excluding non-cash items such as stock compensation of $12.3 million, decrease in working capital of $1.5 million, capital additions of $6.6 million, mainly associated with our glass plant expansion, cost related to the acquisition of $1.5 million and startup cost related to the new glass plant of $300,000. And finally cash paid for interest and taxes which was $1.0 million.

Our cash ending balance for the quarter was $43.7 million, which included the impact of the items mentioned before, as well as net proceeds from the refinancing of $5.3 million. Capital expenditures in 2014 are expected to be approximately $19 million to $20 million, of which $12 million relates to our new glass facility.

Next year consolidated capital spending will range between $15 million and $20 million, including regular maintenance capital spending of $5 million to $7 million and spending related to additional glass capacity yet to be finalized and another growth related items.

Economic conditions in the Florida market should remain strong, which will continue to drive year-over-year sales growth in the fourth quarter. We anticipate this growth will continue both organically and as a result of the CGI acquisition.

Sales from PGT products will range between $70 million and $72 million, which represents an increase of 13% to 16% over prior year sales of $62 million. And sales from the newly acquired CGI products will range between $11 million and $12 million resulting in consolidated sales between $81 million and $84 million.

At this time, I will turn the call over to our CEO, Rod Hershberger for some remarks.

Thanks, Brad. Third quarter of 2014 was both an exciting and eventful one. New construction sales have grown over 47% for the sixth straight quarter. This displayed a flat single-family start environment, now projected to finish at 54,000, which is in line with the previous year.

Our acquisition of CGI combines two companies with long histories of success in the impact resistant window and door industry. We're off to a great start welcoming the CGI employees into our family and we have been impressed with their dedication to quality and commitment.

Looking ahead, our new glass facility is operational and we expect to capitalize on the efficiencies that it will provide. We have continued to invest in our employees, as we have implemented strategic initiatives in training and development. We've also hired strong industry talent externally to help lead us into 2015. We are eager to see the impact of these initiatives and believe additional opportunities exists to lower our operational costs and leverage them with incremental sales.

With regards to CGI, opportunities exists to both diversify and broaden our product portfolio as a result of the acquisition. We also expect to realize significant cost savings related to materials, operating expenses and other items. These synergies should reach a total annual amount of approximately $4 million to $5 million when fully realized ramping-up in 2015 and reaching full potential in 2016. This will strengthen our industry-leading margins and will position us to aggressively drive top line sales and take additional market share. I am thankful for the dedication and effort put forth by all of our employees who have worked hard to help us realize our strategic initiatives.

With that, I'll conclude and we'll be happy to answer your questions about our results or the recent acquisition. Amanda, if you could get the first question, please.

Yes, sir. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Robert Wetenhall from RBC Capital. Your line is open, sir.

Hey. Good morning and thanks for taking the question. I was hoping that Rod maybe you could just, you've been in the business a long time. Could you just tell us how you're thinking about the recovery now? And if you're breaking it down between new construction for the repair and remodel and the co-driven opportunities, just speaking of that both into the year-end and what you're thinking about 2015 with CGI, just trying to get a better understanding of how you're thinking about top line growth for the business in the next couple of years?

Yeah. I don't know, if I can really express my excitement through the phone as well as I'd like to. It's fun being in this market again and we're – from a company perspective, I guess I'll hit a couple of different points. New construction, we're taking significant share in the new construction market because new construction starts are not that much but where we're at right now at 54,000 starts is about half of where we should be, maybe even not quite half of where we should be to really have a good recovery in market. I'm not going to predict that we're going to get there next year. So, we've got a couple of years to run on the new construction side.

We've seen a little bit of flatness in the R&R side of the market, but we've got initiatives in place. So, we're taking some share there. Even though the market's been flat, we grew substantially in September and we've got initiatives in place to continue growing at 5% to 7% for the remainder of the year on the R&R side.

CGI's got a great product mix. They fit into our portfolio well. Our customers are excited. Their customers are excited. I think we can serve the market much better by hitting that. We look at it as the – we call it upper right hand side of the market kind of great product and lots of features and lot of touch points and we both hit that market really well. So, we think that's going to grow.

We're investing and we're investing a lot and making sure that we're ready for that growth. We've come through that long down period where it was tough for us after really going through about 25 years of growth to have to deal with about five or six years of this downturn and trying to make sure we're running things correctly. Now we're back to those growth ideas again. So, we're pretty excited. We've put a substantial investment in our glass plant. We will continue to invest in the glass plant, making sure that the capabilities are there to produce glass, because we have substantial savings. So, as an organization, looking at the future and not looking at Q4 and even necessarily the first half of next year, we're really excited where the state is going and where we are going as a company.

That's actually really helpful color. And I was hoping, Jeff, may be you could expand on just profitability in the EBITDA margin line. You're kind of tracking 15%. You've invested a lot in expanding glass production capacity. It sounds like sourcing externally will diminish. Given Rod's outlook in terms of growth opportunities and the ability to leverage some fixed costs, where can that 15% EBITDA margin go in the next year, in the next two years. Thanks very much.

As you look in the next year and two years, we're going to fully realize the benefit of all the investment we're doing in the third quarter, and we're going to continue to do it in the fourth and first quarter of next year in terms of the glass producing capacities. We're expanding that because we want to make our own glass internally as much as possible, especially given the upside in the margins.

With that said, we hired over 170 people just in the quarter alone to start up this new facility. So, as we continue to leverage that – leverage the top end brands Rod's mentioning, I mean CGI margins alone are in the upper – mid 20%s. We expect that to expand. We expect our own internal margins to expand and even the third quarter results, I'll remind you that our sales and margins are still pretty much industry leading. So, we definitely view the ability to get EBITDA margins up, starting as early as mid – I'd say mid-2015 into the upper teens and then ending out the year at that target 20% like we've put out there.

And so you're saying you can potentially hit a 20% EBITDA margin by the fourth quarter of 2015?

Yes.

Great guys. Nice quarter. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jeremy Hamblin from Dougherty & Company. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys and thanks for taking my question. I wanted to just get into the gross margins a little bit deeper in terms of thinking about some of the dislocation between where expectations were and where you guys came out. So, was there something that kind of shifted besides the spike in aluminum costs, which is understandable and completely out of your control? Coming in at 30.4%, was there something else that occurred either in the production facility during Q3 that caused the margins to fall to the levels they did? I mean, if I – if I kind of understand it, you got about 120 basis points or so on mix shift. We know that you're buying a lot of outside glass in the quarter. We know about the aluminum. But it feels like there maybe was also something in addition to that, that would have caused the level to be down to where it is? And then – well, I'll start with that now. I'll ask a follow-up.

Yeah. I think, just to clarify that, probably that mix shift, we had mix shift both in vinyl mix shift and new construction mix shift. And I'd peg that closer to 200 bps in that area. But outside that the remaining miss, if you will, I'd take it related to mainly glass. We did buy more glass externally than we had planned, or wanted to, based off the volumes. That was – several reasons drove that and, most notably, we did have some equipment downtime, both on our tempering and our cutters were down, I'd say, two to three days during the quarter that impacted us tremendously.

We also unfortunately had some supplier material related issues that we received some bad supply. And once you receive that it's hard to work it through the system. It throws a tizzy factor, if you will, through the manufacturing process. So, we had to work through that as well.

And then I'd say thirdly, we did have the glass plant – the new glass facility ramping up. So, while we tried to capture the cost – material cost associated with that, there is training, there is on-boarding. Like I'd mentioned earlier, we had over 170 people during the quarter added to that glass facility. So, we've got a lot of inefficiencies associated with that.

We also, just as a remainder, closed the CGI deal and acquisitions associated with that. So, we had a lot going on during the quarter that indirectly and directly would have impacted our margins.

Right. Okay. And so maybe just some of that wasn't – when you guys had your July call, some of that wasn't anticipated at that time. Are you able to quantify some of those supplier disruption in that equipment down time? Is that kind of like 70 basis points, 80 basis points, 90 basis points, 100 basis points?

I think if you would have compared where we were at and where we're tracking through the second quarter and into July, I would say that I think our operational impact that Jeff referred to – sequentially it was about an 80 basis points hit. As we look forward, I think it's going to take a couple of quarters to get that back into play. So, the steps that we're taking may help us – call it 40 basis points the first quarter and then next 40 basis points – I'm sorry 40 basis points in the fourth quarter and the next 40 basis points in the first quarter.

Hey, Jeremy. I'd just add to that. I think this is pretty consistent with what we've said in almost every call that we've that when we have to make choices between this quarter and the future and particularly with the new glass plant ramping up and closing the deal with CGI that took a little more energy, maybe then we anticipated going into the quarter. But again looking into 2015 and 2016, it was the right thing for the company to do and we're pretty excited about it.

Okay. And then let me think about this and reconcile what you guys have said about 2015 and the opportunities to improve. So, we have some leverage that you're going to get from not having to purchase as much outside glass, but should – given the capacity constraint on lamination, should we be thinking that in the first half of the year that opportunity is a little bit lower, because certainly by the time you get into the second quarter – if not at least a little bit in the first, but certainly in the second quarter, when you're seasonally higher, you're going to be running into capacity constraints again and still have to purchase outside glass?

Yeah. I mean that's a great way to think of it. Cardinal is our outside glass supplier. There're going to continue to be a partner with us, especially during the peak months. We're actually currently going through that negotiation process now. Obviously, Cardinal supplied all of CGI's glass and a portion, roughly 15%, of our needs this year so far. So, it is a big business for them. It's not going to be add us, add CGI, and that's our new volume. It will be something far less than that but, at the same, time we're going to still utilize Cardinal for those peak months. And they've been a solid partner with us in the past and will be on go forward basis. In terms of actual – just to give you a kind of an idea in fourth quarter for instance, in October, we did still buy external glass because, again, we got our glass plant up and running, it's going well now. But in November and December based off current volumes, we're not going to buy any external glass on the outside. So, that will fluctuate based off volumes and we will be adding that laminating capacity. It will not be in play till probably the second quarter – end of the second quarter of 2015.

Yeah. End of second quarter.

So, that will necessitate probably more glass outside needs than we would like. But again, you get the volume. So, we'd much rather have a volume coming out and try to meet those needs in the future with additional capacity expansions.

Okay. Great. Just one other quick thing and I'll jump back in the queue. Brad, on the amortization – depreciation and amortization that we should be thinking about going forward here, what's – I missed the number?

$2.6 million Jeremy.

Per quarter?

Yes.

Okay.

That's combined.

And how much of that is amortization?

Amortization would be...

Like $1.2 million?

$1 million of that and the rest would be depreciation.

Okay. And that will flow through into next year as well.

Yes.

Okay. All right. Thanks so much.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Keith Hughes from SunTrust. Your line is open, sir.

Thank you. You had referred to the new construction sales in the quarter. And that they've just been outstanding the entire year. Is there any way to tell, how much of the share gain is driven by taking share from other similar producers, or how much is coming from old customers that would use mechanical type or an annual type of protection on the windows?

That's a tough question, Keith.

I know that's why I'm asking you.

We think that more of it is coming from taking share from our competition than from a switch back from active and passive protection. But I don't know that I can give you an actual number.

Especially on the new construction side, which was – it kind of opened up, Keith, with our growth, which you're right, 47% up in new construction. We continue to really take share in that market. That we definitely view as taking share from competition versus active versus passive solution. However, the new construction has been geared more towards impact protection, because it's just a better known product now than it was back in 2006, when the latest kind of new construction boom was taking off, the impact product was relatively still new in its lifecycle. Now that people know about it this next go-around of new construction, we do see a little bit more demand for that upfront.

The other thing too that might be interesting to note is new construction starts have been flat, but in the Southern Counties that are stronger counties Southeast, Southwest, they're actually up above 7%. So, they're up a small amount. And I don't know that I can say this for a fact yet, but it looks like some of those new starts are maybe a little bit larger construction than what we had seen for quite a few years. So, we're seeing a little bit larger house built and we're just taking share away.

Second question. You referred in the capital spending plans for next year another glass plant coming on line. Is that correct?

Not another glass plant. The 96,000 square foot facility we've got now will house the additional equipment. That's what we're going to be installing, a new – some additional equipment within the current brick-and-motor.

Okay. So, it's within the bricks-and-motor but it is an addition to the glass that you just brought online here recently, correct?

Yes. It is.

Is that there for future growth as well as for potentially an integration with CGI? Or what's your feeling there?

Yes. I mean if you took CGI's business and our business and add them together, we can't meet that demand or that need with the current expansion. The current expansion was anticipated only our needs. The acquisition opportunity came up subsequent to us building our facility. Now we built the facility big enough for our growth as well. So, with the acquisition, we're just going to probably be a year earlier – maybe year and a half earlier in expanding equipment in that plant than we had previously thought.

Yeah. Just for reference from time that you identify that you need the equipment, you really spec it out and get the footprint and lay it out and place the order and install it, it's about a year. So, it's not something that you can react to next month and put it in place.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Sam Darkatsh from Raymond James. Your line is open.

Good morning. This is Josh filling in for Sam. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey, Josh.

Hello, Josh.

I wanted to follow-up on some of the project pricing issues that we discussed in the first quarter when you were getting your foot in the door on some larger projects. Could you talk about whether you're seeing any benefits or additional wins coming through as a result of that pricing strategy and what are pricing trends in general among your project business?

Well, we did see – as you mentioned, the large project pricing was a Q1 and Q2 kind of strategy and that strategy was employed to help gain some additional, I guess, relationships and sales within the multi-storey and commercial markets. I do think it's still little bit too early, Josh, to say whether we've seen some favorable results from that. As you know, we towards the back half of the second quarter stopped that as an aggressive strategy and went back to what we think is our appropriate pricing. We have seen some new construction growth, and I'm sure some of that growth is within those areas, but I think it's a little bit too soon at this point to be able to quantify and a determine pay back. Those projects should only take a while to complete and then, therefore also take a while to spec the second time around. So, I do think, we'll be able to talk about that a little bit more in the future, but right now I think, it's a little too early.

Okay. And how many shifts the CGI is running right now?

They run one full shift and a partial second on just a couple of the product lines.

And yourselves?

We're currently running three shifts, probably I'd say a 100% full in the first, maybe 90% full on the second and 70% full on the third on the assembly side. On the glass side, we're 24x7, up until the opening up of the new facility that will take some pressure off our current facility. You got to keep in mind, we're running that current facility pretty much 24x7. We're running to fill. So, in my example earlier, when a machine – when we have an equipment issue, it's really hard on the plant because we cannot recover from that very quickly. So, with the added capacity that has come online at the end of the third quarter, we will be able to not run as much of a demand on what we had in the past.

Thanks. Good luck with the next quarter.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you, Josh.

Thank you. We have a follow up question from the line of Jeremy Hamblin from Dougherty & Company. Your line is open.

Hey, guys. So, just wanted to ask a little bit more on the R&R business. So, it sounds like it was flat in July and August and picked back up in September. Is there anything in particular that you're seeing that would be causing that kind of fluctuation? I mean we all expected it to moderate to some extent. But are you guys using some different promotional programs, moving forward or how should we be thinking about that business, also as it pertains to next year. I think you said that you expect 5% to 7% growth in that channel this year in Q4, but how should we be thinking about that in 2015?

I guess, as you look at the third quarter, those kind of months that were essentially flat, that was more of an industry kind of result, if you will. We saw that in other building product companies where the R&R business was flat for those couple of months. And then in September, I think it picked up for a lot of us. I've talked to several different building product CEOs, and they experienced almost the same thing. So, within Florida, I think we have little bit different anomaly in terms of our potential growth in R&R because we still have a lot of people obviously moving down and fixing up old homes.

As you look into 2015, I do think you're going to continue to see a solid growth, more than industry norm in Florida and I think we will continue to take share. We do run programs, various promotional programs through our marketing department to incent sales in the R&R sector with our dealers. We typically will run those during certain times of the year. So, we're going to be running one in the fourth quarter, as an example. We'll run one before the spring selling season, as another example. You got to think timing of when people actually move to Florida and live here.

Now is that time of year they are here. So, we want to get out in front of them with a potential business to redo their house or condo or whatever it may be. And usually those programs run, we get the business and that business is booked when they're no longer here and they're up north again. So, there is timing of those programs. They [indiscernible] (0:39:37) and we have taken share in the R&R market.

You guys have always run that Q1 program. Is the Q4 an incremental program?

We ran programs last year in Q4. It wasn't necessarily just targeted to R&R. We ran a broad program, both in new construction and R&R and it was more targeted towards certain dealers. This year, I think we've targeted it to R&R dealers only. And though it is more targeted this year than it was last year, but we did run a program in Q4 last year.

We'll typically have a program or two, as we say, on the shelf. So, if we need to pull it out and run a program. If we see something changing in the market that we think we should address, we'll generally have a program that we can put in place pretty quickly to address those changes in the market. And that really hasn't changed in the last couple of years.

Great. And then just one last one on CGI, what was CGI's Q4 sales last year? And then as we look at the opportunity that seems like something where you could meaningfully grow that probably faster than the rest of your business just by getting some synergies and expanding their distribution into your broader network. Can you give me that Q4 number from last year, Brad? And then as I think about 2015, is that a fair assumption for me to think that that will grow at a rate that's probably quite a bit faster than the rest of your business.

Jeremy, the Q4 number last year was about $8.8 million. So, the guidance that we've provided for CGI for Q4 of $11 million to $12 million represents about a 25% to 35% increase over prior year.

Okay. And then as we think about it into next year, is that – I am sure we shouldn't be assuming those same kind of growth rates you're seeing in Q4, but is it something that we would expect it to be meaningfully higher than the rest of your business?

I think the answer to that is yes. We think given the relatively small base and the potential expansion of that dealer distributor network throughout Florida, the answer to that is yes. You'll see it meaningfully higher than the main part of the PGT business.

Great. Thanks so much and best of luck guys.

Thank you, Jeremy.

Thanks Jeremy.

Thank you. I am showing no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Bradley West for any closing remarks.

Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to speaking to you again next quarter. And if you have any further questions, don't hesitate to give me a call. Have a good day.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, this does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.