corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the PGT Incorporated fourth quarter 2008 earnings results


conference call. [Operator instructions]


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Jeff Jackson. Please go ahead, sir.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, CPA, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us for PGT’s fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008


conference call. I’m Jeff Jackson, CFO, and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and


CEO. We will represent PGT on this morning’s call. Before we begin, let me remind everyone that


today’s conference call may contain statements concerning the company’s future prospects,


business strategies, and industry trends.


Such statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on our current expectations and are


subjected to risk and uncertainty. Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the


forward-looking statements. Please refer to yesterday’s press release and our most recently filed


Form 10-K filed with the SEC. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-


looking statements. A copy of our press release is posted on the Investor Relations section of our


corporate web site at www.pgtinc.com. Included in the press release are the unaudited


consolidated balance sheets and statements of operation compared in accordance with GAAP,


non-GAAP information, which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP. Our company uses non-


GAAP measurements as key metrics for evaluating performance internally.


A detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures can be found in our Form 8-K filed yesterday


with the SEC. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial


results in accordance with GAAP, rather we believe the presentation of non-GAAP measures


provide additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present


performance.


For today’s call, Rod and I will provide an overview of the fourth quarter and the year. Then we’ll


discuss our results in more detail. After our prepared remarks, we’ll take your questions.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jeff and good morning everyone. As I mentioned in our press release, the downward


pressure on the home building industry worsened in the fourth quarter as the effects of tight credit,


caused by the mortgage crisis, continued impacting the overall economy. Housing starts in our core


market were down 38% in the fourth quarter compared to last year’s fourth quarter, and down 50%


for the year. Once again, we outperformed the housing market as our sales decreased only 9% in


the fourth quarter compared to last year’s fourth quarter, and decreased 21% for the year.


Compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, sales into the repair and remodeling market were flat, while


sales into the new construction market were down 28%. As a percentage of total sales for the


fourth quarter of 2008, R&R sales accounted for 65%, and new construction sales accounted for


35% of sales compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Our R&R sales accounted for 57% of sales,


and new construction represented 43%. For the year, sales into the repair and remodeling market


was down 10%, while sales into the new construction market were down 36%.
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As mentioned in previous calls, our plan for managing through the prolonged housing downturn


includes driving sales, especially in out of state markets, and growing our dominant share in our


core market, Florida. Our new non-impact vinyl window, targeted for the R&R market, was


introduced at the International Builders show in January. The window was well received, and we


expect the new product lines for biogeographic sales growth as we continue to focus on increasing


our distribution network in targeted states outside Florida. We will begin taking orders on that


product on March 2.


We’ve increased our sales force and are also targeting sales in international markets as we


continue to see a more stable market in the Caribbean Islands. Our joint venture with ASILIMITED


just completing two unitized curtain wall projects, estimated to generate 1.8 million in revenue for


our company over the next six months. We have also signed an additional project outside of


Florida, estimated to generate 2.4 million in revenue during 2009, and with the JV we continue to


bid on numerous opportunities both inside and out of Florida.


We think the housing market and conditions in the economy will remain difficult during 2009, as


consumer demand is down and credit markets are still in need of repair. While the new federal


stimulus package contains measures to increase home ownership, and additional measures to


drive energy-efficient windows, it remains too early to predict the beneficial economic effect for


2009.


On a positive note, the Florida State legislature passed the law that went into affect in 2009


requiring certain homes located in the wind-borne debris region to have impact-resistant protection


on all openings to be eligible for insurance underwritten by Citizens Property Insurance


Corporation, Florida state sponsored homeowners’ insurance company.


Citizens has an almost one-third market share in the state. However, as this law phases in, and


insurance policies are renewed throughout 2009, it is too early to accurately predict its benefit for


us. Because the timing of any recovery in our industry is uncertain, we recently reduced our


workforce and better-aligned costs with recent sales levels, an action we estimate will save 6


million annually.


We continue to believe that we can grow organically by gaining market share, but remain focused


on controlling cost and conserving cash. In the fourth quarter of 2008, gross margin decreased 1.7


million from the third quarter of 2008, due mainly to lower unit volumes in our Aluminum WinGuard


product line, which was down 11%. SG&A costs increased 1.6 million from the third quarter of


2008. In the fourth quarter, we took action to increase our bad debt reserves in response to the


continued downward pressure in the housing industry, the weakness in the economy, and the effect


it is having on our customer base.


We also had an increase in selling and promotional costs related to distributor incentive programs


to help drive volume. These costs were partially offset by lower fuel-cost. Adjusted EBITDA


decreased to 3 million in the fourth quarter from 6 million in the third. The decrease was driven by


lower sales. Driven by non-cash impairment charges for the fourth quarter, we had a net loss of 83


million.


As we discussed in the second quarter, our market capitalization has been negatively affected by


the significant and prolonged downturn in the housing industry, which led us to conclude that our


goodwill was impaired. We performed our required annual impairment test for goodwill and


intangible assets in the fourth quarter. This resulted in us writing off the remaining 76.3 million of


goodwill, and writing down our trademarks by 17.8 million. Both of the adjustments are non-cash


related. Adjusting for these charges, our net loss was 2.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2008


compared to an adjusted net loss of 2.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. Adjusted net loss per


diluted share was $0.06 for the fourth quarter of this year compared to adjusted net loss of $0.09


for the fourth quarter of 2007. Though non-cash impairment charges negatively impacted our