corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Good Day, Ladies and Gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2007 PGT, Inc. Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Lauren and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator


Instructions].


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Jeff Jackson, CFO.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you and good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to PGT’s First Quarter 2007


Conference Call. I’m Jeff Jackson, CFO, and I’m joined today by Rod Hershberger, President and


CEO. We will represent PGT on this morning’s call.


Rod will provide an overview of the company’s performance for the quarter and I will discuss the


financial results in more detail. We will also discuss our continued efforts to advance our strategy


as well as take your questions.


Before we begin, let me remind everyone who is listening that today’s conference call contains


statements concerning the company’s future prospects, business strategies and industry trends.


Such statements are considered to be forward-looking statements under the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based current expectations which are subject


to risk and uncertainty.


Actual results may vary materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements because


of certain risk factors. Please refer to yesterday’s press release and our annual report on Form 10-


K filed with the SEC on March 21, 2007.


We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. A copy of


the press release is posted on our Investor Relations section of our website at www.pgtinc.com.


Included in the press release are the unaudited consolidated balance sheet, a summary, a


consolidated statement of operations prepared in accordance with GAAP, and pro forma


information which was quantitatively reconciled to GAAP.


Our company uses non-GAAP measures as T-metrics for evaluating performance internally. A


detailed explanation of these non-GAAP measures can be found in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC


yesterday. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial


statements in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we believe the presentation of earnings, excluding


certain items, provides additional information to investors in helping compare past and present


operations.


With that, let me turn the call over to Rod Hershberger, our CEO. Rod?


Rodney Hershberger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. We have a number of items to share this morning.


First, I’ll highlight our results for the first quarter of 2007 and then provide an update to some of our


key strategic initiatives for the year. Then Jeff will follow with a detailed review of our financials for


the first quarter of 2007. After my closing comments, we’ll take your questions.


As I mentioned in our press release, the building industry continues to see significant deterioration


in new construction, as evidenced by a decline in new housing permits of 52% in the first quarter of


2007 versus the same period in 2006, while our revenues decreased only 24.6% in the same
corrected transcript


PGT, Inc.
 
PGTI
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


period. The decline in revenues was driven by lower unit volumes, partially offset by higher net


price realization and products mix shift towards our WinGuard and Architectural Systems product


line.


We also were able to offset some of the decline in the industry by gaining market share through


penetrating the shutter market, or as we refer to it, the active impact resistant market, and by


shifting mix to the repair and remodeling market.


Sales of new construction and repair & remodeling accounted for 53% and 47% of our sales


respectively, compared to 63% and 37% respectively for the same period in 2006.


We continue to invest in our marketing efforts. Our marketing expense was 2.8 million for the first


quarter of 2007, versus 2.6 million in the same period of 2006. We believe it is important to invest


in this area during periods of cyclical downturn in order for us to achieve our goal of increasing


market share.


We remain disciplined in our spending with our sales, general and administrative expenses, which


we decreased by $1.6 million from the prior year quarter. For the first quarter, a combination of


decreased volume and the rising cost of aluminum, partially offset by favorable mix shift toward our


WinGuard and Architectural Systems product line and judicious SG&A spending, resulted in net


income of 0.8 million versus adjusted net income of 6.7 million in the prior year’s quarter. Our net


income per share was 3 cents for the first quarter versus an adjusted net income per pro forma of


24 cents for the same period in the prior year.


We continue to manage our capital structure well. Optional debt repayment totaled 20 million in the


first quarter of 2007 and our cash balance was 17.6 million at March 31, 2007. During the last call


we outlined our plan for managing through the housing downturn, and we still believe this is the


right strategy given the current market conditions. As a reminder, this plan includes generating


sales through increasing market share, geographic expansion and introducing new products, and


decreasing our costs while conserving capital.


You will note as Jeff walks through our financial results in more detail that we have done a great job


executing on our strategy in a very difficult operating environment. I am proud of our efforts to


generate sales and of our ability to carefully manage our cost structure. Now Jeff will review the


results for the first quarter in greater detail.


Jeffrey T. Jackson, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Rod. Let me give you more detail on the quarterly results. We reported net sales of


$72.7 million for the first quarter of 2007, a decrease of 24.6% versus the same quarter in 2006.


This decrease is driven by a new construction sales decline of 37% as we continue to weather the


impact of the declining housing market, with starts estimated at a decline of 52% in our core


market. Our repair and remodeling sales declined only 4%. For the quarter, sales into the new


construction market represented approximately 53% of our total sales. Sales into the repair and


remodeling market represented approximately 47% of our total sales. Comparing to our sequential


quarter, the fourth quarter of 2006, our sales increased by approximately 6.6%. This increase is


mainly driven by our WinGuard brand, up 4.3 million from the fourth quarter of 2006.


A breakdown of our sales by major categories is as follows. Our WinGuard branded products had


net sales of 48.1 million in the first quarter of 2007. This represented a decrease of 11.9 million or


20% from the first quarter of 2006 sales number of 16 million. However, as a percent of total net


sales WinGuard increased to 66% compared to 62% in the first quarter of 2006.