corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2010 Accretive


Health Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shiquana and I will be your coordinator


for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will facilitate a question-and-


answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Gary Rubin, Senior


Director of Finance. Please proceed, sir.


Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance


Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Mary Tolan, the


company’s Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer; and John Staton, the company’s Chief


Financial Officer. Please note that earlier this morning Accretive Health issued a press release


announcing the company’s fourth quarter and year-end 2010 results. A copy of that release is


available in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at www.accretivehealth.com.


Please note that certain statements contained in this conference call maybe considered forward-


looking as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, any


statements made about Accretive Health’s expectations for future financial and operational


performance, expected growth, new services, profitability or business outlook are forward-looking


statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking


statements.


No assurance that the matters contained in such statements will occur, since these statements


involve various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those


expressed in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those listed


under the heading Risk Factors in the company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter


ending September 30, 2010 filed on November 12, 2010 which is available on the company’s SEC


website – on the company’s website as well as the SEC website. The forward-looking statements


made on today’s call are based on the company’s beliefs and expectations as of today, March 2,


2011 only and should not be relied upon as representing the company’s views as of any


subsequent date.


While the company may elect to update these forward looking statements at some point in the


future, Accretive Health specifically disclaims any obligation to do so even if its views change.


Please note that today’s discussion will give reference to certain non-GAAP financial measures.


Please refer to today’s earnings release for more information on these non-GAAP measures and a


reconciliation to the appropriate GAAP measurement. After the conclusion of Mary and John’s


prepared remarks, they will be available to answer questions.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mary Tolan, Accretive Health’s CEO.


Mary A. Tolan, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Gary. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining our call today. 2010 was a very


good year for us. We significantly expanded our revenue cycle management business and we


introduced a new and exciting line of business, our Quality and Total Cost of Care offering. This


more than doubles our addressable market.


We also delivered strong financial results for the year including 19% growth in net service revenue,


and 37% growth in non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA.
corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We’re beginning the New Year with a very strong book of business. Our PCARRR or Projected


Contracted Annual Run Rate of Revenue is currently in the range of $709 million to $723 million.


This represents a 37% increase from our PCARRR at March 2, 2009. We believe this increase is a


direct reflection of the value we are delivering for our clients.


For those listening for the first time, we define our Projected Contracted Annual Run Rate Of


Revenue as the expected total net services revenue in the next 12 months for all healthcare


providers which we’re currently providing services for and that are under contract. We believe that


this is the most instructive metric for gauging growth in our business as it really eliminates the


variability in historical revenue metrics due to timing and size of our significant new customer


contracts.


As some of you have heard us stated before, Accretive Health is a built-for-purpose company with


a sole focus on generating significant sustainable improvements in quality and operating margin for


healthcare providers, while also improving the satisfaction of patients, physicians and staff. This


bears repeating because our mission, the pursuit of creating value for providers is the key business


driver for our two primary offerings; end-to-end revenue cycle management and Quality and Total


Cost of Care, which provides physicians with leading edge population management infrastructure.


I’m going to spend a few minutes now talking about our revenue cycle management business. Our


opportunities in this business continue to expand as the revenue cycle management process


becomes more, not less complex. We’re well positioned to build our leadership position in this


largely growing market and we’re looking at a number of new avenues.


First of all, we’re looking to prove our full market penetration potential in some of our earliest


markets. For instance, we expect that Michigan will be a bellwether for the full potential of the


national market as we continue to work at a number of additional new deals in our pipeline. This


national market is a $50 billion market overall, and today, we have less than 2% market share.


We also see many opportunities to expand our revenue cycle management business into new


geographic regions. Our strategic focus will be on some of the larger states where we have an early


foothold, or states where we have exceptional greenfield opportunities. We’re in discussions with


CEOs and CFOs from some of the leading research institutions and hospitals in our target market


and we’re encouraged by the positive response for unique model and value proposition.


We’re also looking to expand our revenue cycle management business into new segments of the


market such as home healthcare and durable medical equipment providers and to also add more


for-profit providers to our client roster.


Looking beyond our revenue cycle management business, the launch of our Total Quality and Cost


of Care (sic) [Quality and Total Cost of Care] offering has opened up a new and large opportunity


that can be applied to a broad spectrum of healthcare providers. Importantly, it provides healthcare


providers with the complete infrastructure that they need to become accountable care


organizations. As healthcare continues to shift towards this model, we believe that Accretive will be


one step ahead of the curve.


Our inaugural Quality and Total Cost of Care program with Fairview is progressing nicely and is


already demonstrating cost reductions in line with our expectation.


Physician affiliation is very important to hospitals and we are pleased to report that a number of


doctors have chosen to become exclusive to the Fairview network by virtue of this innovative work.


These physicians recognize that the move toward accountable care is happening, and by


partnering with Fairview, they will be able to improve the quality of outcomes for their patients and


participate in the value created.