corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the Third Quarter 2010 Accretive


Health, Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Fab, and I’ll be your operator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct the question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the


conference over to your host for today, Mr. Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance. Please


proceed.


Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance


Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Mary Tolan, the


company’s Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer; and John Staton, the company’s Chief


Financial Officer.


Please note that earlier this morning Accretive Health issued a press release announcing the


company’s third quarter 2010 results. A copy of that release is available in the Investor Relations


section of the company’s website at www.accretivehealth.com.


Certain statements contained in this conference call maybe considered forward-looking as defined


by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, any statements made about


Accretive Health’s expectations for future financial and operational performance, expected growth,


new services, profitability or business outlook are forward-looking statements. Investors are


cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.


There is no assurance that the matters contained in such statements may occur, since these


statements involve various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially


from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include


those listed under the heading “Risk Factors” in the company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for


the quarter ending June 30, 2010, filed on August 13, 2010, which is available on the SEC’s


website, as well as in the Investor Relations portion of Accretive Health’s website at


www.accretivehealth.com.


The forward-looking statements made on today’s call are based on the company’s beliefs and


expectations as of today, November 11, 2010 only, and should not be relied upon as representing


the company’s views as of any subsequent date. While the company may elect to update these


forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Accretive Health specifically disclaims any


obligation to do so, even if its views change.


Please note that today’s discussion will include references to certain non-GAAP financial


measures. Please refer to today’s earnings release for more information on these non-GAAP


measures and reconciliation of -- to the appropriate GAAP measurements. After the conclusion of


Mary and John’s prepared remarks, they will be available to answer your questions.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Accretive Health’s CEO, Mary Tolan. Mary>


Mary A. Tolan, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Gary, and good morning, everyone. I would like to start our prepared remarks today by


providing an update on the accomplishments since our last earnings call. First, we were very


excited to announce our inaugural Quality and Total Cost of Care contracts with Fairview Health
corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Services, which includes the operations at University of Minnesota as well. We will integrate our


leading edge population management infrastructure into more than 40 Fairview physician clinics


and their independent Fairview network clinics, as well as throughout the hospitals.


Through the five-year definitive agreement, Fairview physicians and their care teams will have


access to robust data, tools and processes to more fully understand the health risk profiles of their


patient populations, establish care plans and ensure the patient’s well-being across the care


continuum, and track the status of those care plans on a real-time basis.


We believe this solution will have a significant impact on Fairview’s ability to deliver greater value in


healthcare providing higher quality and a better patient experience at a lower cost. We believe


Fairview as an ideal inaugural client for this offering as a leading health system in the innovative


Minnesota healthcare market, one of the most competitive nationally.


The breadth of the Fairview network with over 2,000 employed and affiliated physicians, as well as


seven hospitals including academic medicine provide an excellent platform to demonstrate the


results of this new business.


We anticipate this offering will provide value to all the parties in the healthcare continuum, patients,


providers and payors. As a result of the recently passed healthcare legislation we are observing


hospitals looking to develop tighter partnerships with physicians given the trend for population


management and accountable care.


We believe this trend will be a significant component of the healthcare delivery in the future. This


new operating model will allow primary care physician to in essence, quarterback the care


management of their patient panel.


This offering provides physicians with a complete line of sight to the total cost of care for their


patients. Physicians will be able to use the infrastructure we provide to identify their highest risk


patients, create individualized care plans and monitor how the care is implemented.


Our population management infrastructure offering can be applied to a broad spectrum of


healthcare providers and we are seeing a high degree of interest in this offering. There are natural


synergies for provider organizations when we provide revenue cycle management and population


management simultaneously. As a result, we see significant interest for this offering within our


revenue cycle management customers and we believe we will have a significant adoption rates


within our existing customer base.


I would now like to spend a few minutes updating you on pipeline and other revenue generation


activities. We’re very pleased with the results of our sales campaign since our last earnings release


and the resulting increase in our Projected Contracted Annual Revenue Run Rate of revenue.


For those listening for the first time we define our Projected Contracted Annual Revenue Run Rate


of revenue as the total expected net services revenue for the subsequent 12 months for all


healthcare providers where we are providing services under contract. So this is not a speculative


number or a forecast. It is for those customers that we are under contract.


We believe that this is the most instructive metric for gauging the company’s success and growing


our business as it eliminates the variability that can occur in historical revenue metrics due to timing


and size of any significant new customer.


Our Projected Contracted Annual Revenue Run Rate of revenue is currently 654 million to 670.


This range compares very favorably with the Projected Contracted Annual Revenue Run Rate at


the November 11, 2009 point, which ranged from 506 million to 516.