corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Accretive


Health, Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Anne and I will be your coordinator for


today’s call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. At this time all


participants are in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session following the presentation.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance. Please


proceed, sir.


Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance and Head of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Mary Tolan,


Accretive Health’s Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, and John Staton, our Chief Financial


Officer. Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing Accretive Health’s first quarter


2011 results. A copy of that release is available in the Investor Relations section of our website at


www.accretivehealth.com.


Please note that certain statements contained in this conference call may be considered forward-


looking as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, any


statements made about Accretive Health’s expectations for future financial and operational


performance, expected growth, new services, profitability or business outlook are forward-looking


statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking


statements.


There is no assurance that the matters contained in such statements will occur, since these


statements involve various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially


from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include


those listed under the heading Risk Factors in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the


quarter ended December 31, 2010 filed on March18, 2011, which is available on the Investor


Relations portion of our website, as well as the SEC’s website. The forward-looking statements


made on today’s call are based on Accretive Health’s beliefs and expectations as of today, May 11,


2011 only and should not be relied upon as representing the company’s views as of any


subsequent date.


While the company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the


future, Accretive Health specifically disclaims any obligation to do so, even if its views change.


Please note that today’s discussion will include references to certain non-GAAP financial


measures. Please refer to today’s earnings release for more information on these non-GAAP


measures and a reconciliation to the appropriate GAAP measures. After the conclusion of Mary and


John’s prepared remarks, they will be available to answer your questions.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mary Tolan, Accretive Health’s CEO. Mary, please go


ahead.


Mary Ann Tolan, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks, Gary, and good morning, everyone. We are starting 2011 right on target with our


expectations. Our first quarters historically are seasonally slowest quarter and yet we experienced


strong top line growth, margin expansion and increase in profitability. Our net services revenue for


the quarter increased 30% year-over-year to $163.7 million, and our non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA


grew 91% to $8.4 million year-over-year.
corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We’re beginning the second quarter with a very strong book of business. Our Projected Contracted


Annual Run Rate of Revenue, or PCARRR, is currently in a range of $765 million to $781 million. At


the midpoint of the range, PCARRR increased by $156 million, or 25%, versus this date last year.


The increase in PCARR is accelerating. Since our call six months ago, we’ve added $111 million of


new contracts, which at the midpoint of the PCARRR range represents a 34% annual growth rate.


And today, we have $200 million to $240 million in potential annual revenue in contracting.


So the last stage of the sales campaign is this contracting stage that we track. Now based on this


progress and our robust pipeline of other sales opportunities, we are confident that our PCARRR


will exceed $900 million at the end of the year.


For those listening for the first time, we define our PCARRR as the expected total net service


revenue in the next 12 months for all healthcare providers, which are currently under signed


contracts. We believe that this is the most instructive metric for gauging growth in our business, as


it really eliminates any of the guesswork and takes only those contracts that are signed and


projects the known revenue from those contracts for the next 12 months.


We see opportunities to expand our revenue cycle management business are increasing as


providers face mounting financial pressure. And at $50 billion, the revenue cycle management


market is enormous, and we have today only a 2% market penetration. So we’ve lots of opportunity


here.


We’re gaining traction in this market as providers are beginning to hear more and more about our


unique business model, and the results that it’s generating for our customers. We have a number of


customers in our pipeline now that have come from this sort of hearing about it in the market from


other customers. Our solution is differentiated from our competitors in a couple of important ways.


First, we are a results accountable organization, which means that we only earn our margin when


our clients are improving their margin. And therefore, they’re not spending one nickel more than


their budget or what they were spending before we began, unless we are lifting their results and


getting an incremental margin contribution. So we’re fully aligned.


Second, we’re the only company that truly provides an integrated revenue cycle solution integrated


from the standpoint of people, process and technology, but also integrated from the standpoint of


from the front of the process all the way through to the back. And this allows us to seamlessly


integrate our learnings along this whole continuum and how we are able to identify and stop


revenue leakage.


We’re also committed to accelerating the adoption of our Shared Services solution. Our Chicago


Shared Service center, which is one of our centers, came online this past quarter, is now operating


with full conversions completed for multiple customers with more pending.


We recently hosted a number of CFOs at our operations to give them really a tangible way of


seeing the model in operation. We received a tremendous amount of positive feedback. One of our


clients, Mark Doyle, the CFO of St. Vincent’s in Jacksonville, shared with us the quote, “This visit


and briefing and walk-through of the center enabled us to see first-hand the power of the


technology, the operating discipline and the quality of the people behind the model. This is really


impressive.”


Another one of our top initiatives for 2011 is to establish a leadership position in population health


management, which is driving providers to establish accountability in the care of populations and


patients. Our Quality and Total Cost of Care program at Fairview in the University of Minnesota, is


off to a terrific start and its initial results are exceeding our expectations. We’re seeing a substantial