corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Accretive Health Second Quarter


2010 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Onika, and I’ll be your audio operator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will have a question-and-answer session towards


the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded


for replay purposes.


At this time, I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance.


Please proceed.


Gary Rubin, Senior Director of Finance


Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me on the call today are Mary Tolan, the


company’s Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer; and John Staton, the company’s Chief


Financial Officer.


Please note that earlier this morning Accretive Health issued a press release announcing the


company’s second quarter 2010 results. A copy of that release is available in the Investor Relations


section of the company’s website at www.accretivehealth.com.


Certain statements contained in this conference call maybe considered forward-looking as defined


by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In particular, any statements made about


Accretive Health’s expectations for future financial and operational performance, expected growth,


new services, profitability or business outlook are forward-looking statements. Investors are


cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. There is no assurance


that the matters contained in such statements will occur, since these statements involve various


risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in


such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include those listed under the


heading “Risk Factors” in the Initial Public Offering Prospectus filed by the company with the SEC


on May 20, 2010, which is available on the SEC’s website as well as in the Investor Relations


portion of Accretive Health’s website at www.accretivehealth.com.


The forward-looking statements made on today’s call are based on the company’s beliefs and


expectations as of today, August 12, 2010 only, and should not be relied upon as representing the


company’s views as of any subsequent date. While the company may elect to update these


forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Accretive Health specifically disclaims any


obligation to do so, even if its views change. Please note that today’s discussion will include


references to certain non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today’s earnings release for


more information on these non-GAAP measures and reconciliation to the appropriate GAAP


measurements. After the conclusion of Mary and John’s prepared remarks, they will be available to


answer your questions.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Accretive Health’s CEO, Mary Tolan.


Mary A. Tolan, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Gary, and good morning, everyone. As this is our first earnings call, I wanted to actually


open our prepared remarks by providing a brief overview of our business, which would give you a


sense of Accretive Health’s strategy, value to customers and differentiation from alternatives in the


market.
corrected transcript


Accretive Health, Inc.
 
AH
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We work with healthcare providers, which are large acute care hospital systems and the large


physician groups who are affiliated with them. And as you know, providers today are really faced


with enormous financial challenges that stem from many sources, but the least of which is not this


very, very challenging financial revenue process that is as complex as you would find in any


industry.


One of the direct results of this complexity is substantial yield loss, so that hospitals and physician


groups, who generally have very lean operating margins to begin with, often only 200 to 300 basis


points, are leaking away significant amounts of their revenue everyday as a direct result of this


complexity. We help address this fundamental problem within end-to-end process that starts when


a patient is scheduled for care with the provider and ends at the point that the entire bill is paid. We


help bring out of this process the errors that result in yield loss and we do this through a


combination of people, process and proprietary technology.


Our leading proprietary technology platform drives results within and across the revenue cycle


process with full end-to-end visibility, and we and our customers share financial gains resulting from


our solution which directly aligns our objectives and interests with our customers. This, which we


refer to as a results-accountable business model, is the core driver of the significant results we


achieve for our customers. We do this without asking our customers to incur any incremental


upfront expenses. Our base fee is the medical providers’ existing revenue cycle budget. Our


customers pay for results, not for inputs.


In addition, our matured customers typically achieve 400 to 600 basis points of additional revenue


from those same episodes of care, which has the potential to more than double the operating


margin for our provider customers. During 2009, the measured cash benefit delivered to our clients


was $310 million.


The revenue cycle market opportunity is substantial as we currently have only a 1% penetration of


a potential $50 billion revenue cycle management market domestically. We have laid this


foundation to capture this growth by penetrating key market segments within – with world-class


referenceable clients, who are well-respected leaders in their respective market segments. So the


clients that we have obtained so far really address all the major segments of the market.


Now before we transition to current quarter results, I want to highlight our target financial model for


new investors who may be on the call. Through 2014, we are targeting a compound annual


revenue growth rate of 25 to 30% and we expect that we’ll be able to achieve an adjusted EBITDA


margin between 14 and 18% in 2014. The increased adjusted EBITDA expansion is primarily driven


by the increasing average maturity of our customer portfolio and the increased scalability of our


operating model.


Now turning to the quarter, we are seeing really opportune strategic shifts in the business and


changes to the economic environment. With the greater clarity around the impact of the recent


passed healthcare legislation, we’re observing hospitals looking to acquire physician practices, or


at least create tighter partnerships given the trend toward Accountable Care Organizations.


This creates increasing opportunity for Accretive Health in two ways. First, as our current clients are


adding physician practices we can expand our revenue cycle services for these clients, picking up


this additional revenue on the physician side. It is creating more interest and market traction also


for our quality and total cost of care offering, as this offering provides the end-to-end enabling


platform to actually implement an Accountable Care Organization.


In addition continued weakness in the economy is resulting in self-pay growth and decreasing


propensity of patients to pay their portion after insurance. And these are contributing to increased


bad debt. In addition, healthcare legislation will certainly slow the growth of government


reimbursement rates and most likely reduce these reimbursement rates. So, these trends are