raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson Prop.
 
RPT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Good morning. My name is Natasha, and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust fourth


quarter/year-end conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator


instructions.]


Thank you. I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations Manager.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations Manager


Good morning, and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust’s fourth


quarter/year-end conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and


supplemental financial package, which are available on our web site at www.RGPT.com.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call which are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC.


Additionally, we want to let everyone know that the information and statements made during the call


are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of


time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Also, the contents of the call are the


property of the Company, and any replay or transmission of the call may be done only with the


consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


Having said that, I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive


Officer, and Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer, and at this time would like to turn the call over to


Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dawn. Good morning. We’re pleased you could join us for our fourth quarter and year-


end conference call.


FFO for the quarter was $0.61, slightly exceeding first call estimates. FFO for the year was $2.08.


Excluding the one-time charge for Fountain Walk, funds from operations would have been $2.31,


which was in line with original analyst estimates.


2004 was a year for numerous announcements in each of our profit centers: acquisition,


development, and asset management. On the acquisition front, we placed under contract 14


shopping centers with an aggregate value of over $465 million, encompassing over three million


square feet of gross leasable area. Of the 14 assets, five centers were acquired on balance sheet


with a total value of over $200 million, reflecting an average capitalization rate of 7.94%. Each


center is anchored by the dominant supermarket in that community, and all are located in densely


populated trade areas.
raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson Prop.
 
RPT
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In addition to the centers we acquired on balance sheet, we secured the right to purchase nine


shopping centers, seven in Florida and two in Michigan, in anticipation of our forming a relationship


with an institutional partner. Thus, we were especially pleased to announce the signing of a joint


venture agreement with ING Clarion Lion Fund. Our partnership is the largest single real estate


undertaking to date by the Lion Fund at $450 million. We are also proud of the fact that instead of


seeding the venture with several assets from our core portfolio, as almost all of these new


relationships have been started, our partnership with the Clarion Lion Fund will not only have over


60% of the total venture identified and closed in the first 120 days of its existence, but all the


venture’s assets will be purchased from third parties. These acquisitions, including three which we


closed in 2004, three more which close this month, and the balance which will be closed by the end


of the first quarter, will produce acquisition and financing fees, as well as a steady stream of


property management income.


We reasonably believe that we can acquire additional shopping centers to fill the balance of the


$450 million venture in 2005, although we have 24 months to accomplish this goal. Thus, we see


the joint venture producing a consistent source of fees for Ramco-Gershenson well into the next


three to five years. We believe that third-party acquisition and management fee income will be a


component of Ramco’s FFO growth. However, we will not emphasize this form of income as a


primary driver of future earnings. Instead, we look for balanced earning growth, maintaining our


emphasis on core assets as the major component of our future income.


Our relationship with the Clarion Lion Fund allows us to pursue value-added opportunities on


balance sheet while we simultaneously acquire class A stable centers as part of our joint venture.


Our ability to source approximately $465 million in shopping center assets in 2004 demonstrates


that Ramco-Gershenson can find acquisition opportunities, even in a very competitive environment.


On the development front in 2004, Ramco-Gershenson was also more aggressive than in the past,


having under construction three centers, two in Michigan and one in Florida. Last year we


commenced construction on over one million square feet of new retail space. Our anchor lineup


includes Target and Home Depot, as well as Wal-Mart and Meijer Superstore. Total construction


costs, including our Jacksonville project’s first phase, approximate $89 million. Each shopping


center is being developed as part of an off-balance sheet joint venture. Thus, we anticipate that we


will generate construction and leasing fees in 2005 for these developments that approximate the


fees produced in 2004. Also, we are presently investigating a number of additional development


opportunities, both in Michigan and in Florida, and anticipate being able to announce at least one


more project this year.


Our asset management group has been busy as well. During the year, we announced six


redevelopments, which involve the expansion or the addition of a major retailer at each shopping


center. At Northwest Crossing in Knoxville, Tennessee, we redeveloped a 260,000-square-foot


center anchored by a 139,000-square-foot Wal-Mart and a 43,000-square-foot Ingle’s Supermarket


into a 304,000-square-foot shopping center. We engineered the expansion of the Wal-Mart to a


208,000-square-foot Superstore and replaced the Ingle’s Supermarket with a 31,000-square-foot


Ross Dress for Less and a 13,000-square-foot Dollar Tree. We also added a number of new retail


concepts to the tenant mix and completely redesigned and re-landscaped the center.


At our Cox Creek center in Florence, Alabama, we added Home Depot to our center by selling


them a parcel of land. They joined Goody’s, Toys ‘R Us, and Old Navy as anchors in this 100%


leased shopping center. At our new Town Plaza in Metropolitan Detroit, we are in the process of


expanding this center for the fourth time since we originally built this shopping center in the mid


1970s by enlarging the Jo-Ann Fabric Store from 16,000 to 35,000 square feet. One center


expansion that we were especially pleased to announce was the enlarging of the Kroger


Supermarket at the Livonia Plaza in Metropolitan Detroit from 54 to 68,000 square feet. This center


is an excellent example of our ability to buy a quality asset, identify an opportunity to add value, and


then execute on that opportunity. The Kroger expansion commenced less than 12 months after we