Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Dawn L. Hendershot — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Dennis Earl Gershenson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Michael J. Sullivan — Senior Vice President-Asset Management, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Gregory R. Andrews — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Todd M. Thomas — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
RJ Milligan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Vincent Chao — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Edward Okine — Director, Basso Capital Management LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you, ma'am, you may now begin.

Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust second quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer; Gregory Andrews, Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Sullivan, Senior Vice President of Asset Management.

At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additionally, statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call.

Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Although, we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the quarterly press release.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.

Thank you, Dawn, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ramco-Gershenson's strong second quarter results and our ability to post positive metrics quarter-after-quarter speaks to a company that is highly productive and well-positioned to deliver continued sustainable growth. Our positive broad-based accomplishments and the attendant increase in funds from operations furthered our company's overall business strategy and moves us toward achieving all of our 2013 goals.

And in simplest terms, our strategic mission is to be the best-in-class owner of a portfolio of geographically diverse, high quality, multi-anchored shopping centers with built-in above average income growth potential. Our 2013 goal which advance this strategy include, first, growing and refining our shopping center portfolio through accretive acquisitions and non-core dispositions, value add redevelopments and seller expansions.

Second, diversifying our geographic footprint so that no one market represents more than 25% of our average base rents. Third, generating consistent, sustainable same-center net operating income growth through a proactive leasing and asset management program and lastly, accomplishing all of these growth and diversification goals while maintaining and improving a strong flexible balance sheet. We are confident that successfully executing on each of these objectives ensures that our stakeholders will experience ever-increasing share value and a competitive dividend.

How have we done so far this year against these measures? In the first six months of 2013, we acquired over $430 million of high quality multi-anchored shopping centers at an average capitalization rate of 7.4%. In addition to these acquisitions, we're in the process of realizing on the opportunity to develop the land parcels we purchased adjacent to our recent acquisitions at Fox River in Milwaukee, Town & Country in St. Louis and Harvest Junction in Longmont, Colorado.

Each of these projects involves constructing additional square footage and the leasing of outlots at the shopping centers generating not only accretive returns on the new capital invested but also producing higher property NOI while increasing each shopping center's net asset value.

In addition to acquiring shopping centers in targeted markets and as part of our efforts to refine our shopping center portfolio and diversifying our geographic footprint, we are actively engaged in the process of selling a number of additional non-core properties. We expect to complete these sales in the second half of this year. Complementing our strong showing in external growth during the second quarter and the first six months, our asset management team continues to demonstrate its ability to drive healthy increases in all of our portfolio operating statistics.

Key metrics of a highly desirable and successful shopping center portfolio including same center NOI growth, leasing spread increases, improving occupancy levels and healthy operating margins all advanced for us in the second quarter. A special note is the success we're achieving in signing highly desirable anchor and small tenant leases. Based upon the letters of intent and leases we are negotiating, we reasonably expect to sign at least one additional anchor lease with a leading national retailer, five years end.

We also anticipate a continued acceleration in our small tenant leasing momentum. You should remember that I indicated in our first quarter conference call that our small tenant leased occupancy goal for 2013 was between 89% and 90%. We are presently on track to reach that target.

The advances we've made in both our anchor and small tenant occupancy will by no means slow our potential for income growth. Rather in addition to contractual rental increases and options exercised, we have multiple sources to drive property level income over the next several years.

These sources include one, re-negotiating leases and replacing tenants we signed in 2008 to 2011, a period of repression. We anticipate that we will generate rental rate increases for both new and expiring leases similar to those we're achieving in the second quarter and the year-to-date 2013.

Two, capitalizing on a significant line up of value-add redevelopments, which we only announce and include in our supplements when we have solidified plans for the project. As I mentioned these projects currently include Harvest Junction, Roseville Towne Center and The Shoppes at Fox River.

And lastly, a third source of strong net operating income growth will come from the pipeline we are creating for expansions at newly acquired shopping centers. An example of the potential for this type of future income growth is our most recent acquisition, Mount Prospect Plaza. This core-plus community shopping center located in the dense, infill northwestern suburb of Chicago was approximately 85% leased at the date of purchase.

Based on its strong demographic profile, position in the market, roster of national credit tenants, and the existence of significant retailer demand, we believe that we can move quickly to lease the majority of the existing vacant space. Our plans also include adding at least one outlot and constructing an additional retail building on the site.

Thus, pursuing all of these avenues to grow our income stream will enable us to broaden and deepen the income growth potential to be mined from our expanding shopping center portfolio.

As we undertake all of our external and internal growth initiatives, we are ever mindful to maintain a strong balance sheet. Our capital activities in the second quarter and the year-to-date reinforce our commitment to limit interest rate risk, while emphasizing equity as an integral part of funding our acquisitions, developments and core portfolio improvements.

Our continued focus on value-add acquisitions, operational excellence, and a strong capital structure has produced a steady improvement in our earnings. Based on these results we're increasing our FFO guidance for 2013 by $0.04 at the mid-point of our range. Over the balance of the year, we will continue to deliver on our business plan. As part of that plan, we expect to acquire an additional $40 million to $80 million of high-quality, value-add shopping centers in our targeted markets.

The first half of 2013 has positioned your company to reap the benefits of all of our growth initiatives. We anticipate the second half of the year will be a very productive period as well.

I would now like to turn this call over to Michael Sullivan who will provide insight into our operating metrics.

Thank you, Dennis. Good morning, everyone. Ramco's asset management team is pleased to report our second quarter operating results. We think the continuing improvement in our operating metrics speaks volumes about not only the quality of our shopping center portfolio but also about the opportunities embedded in our centers.

Asset management is on track in executing its 2013 business plan, which supports Ramco's broader strategic goals. Leasing continues to drive our portfolio productivity. In the second quarter, we generated strong leasing velocity and positive rent spends for both new and expiring leases.

Total lease transaction volumes exceeded 475,000 square feet. And on a comparable basis, the cash rental spread was up 9.1%. We continue to take advantage of an active retail leasing environment at several levels. Shop leasing velocity was strong in the second quarter, accounting for approximately 70% or 150,000 square feet of total new leases signed.

There are three key areas driving this activity. Number one, local small shop tenants are expanding and opening new stores at a higher rate than they had in past years accounting for approximately 50,000 square feet of new shop leases executed during the quarter.

Our selection process in vetting new local tenancies has become very stringent, allowing us to pick winners in this category, which we view as those with specific concepts desired in our markets that add a flavor and excitement to our centers while benefiting from the traditional high rental rates achieved from these centers.

Number two. We also continue to benefit from high interest from national and regional small shop retailers that are expanding their stores, including The Children's Place, America's Best, H&R Block and [ph] Salon Law (11:56).

Number three, large format shop users, those over 5,000 square feet continue to be a very important element in our high-quality, multi-anchored centers. In the quarter, we signed 75,000 square feet of these leases with expanding retail concepts including the DSW, Advance Auto, Kirkland's, Buffalo Wild Wings, and Rue 21. Our success in our shop leasing program is a prime contributor to the increase in our core average rents to $12.04 a square foot.

Additionally, anchor leasing continues to be active as national retailers expand and relocate to the best positioned shopping centers. We executed three anchor leases in the second quarter one of which has T.J. Maxx replacing the parting Staples.

Our anchor leases occupied rate stands at approximately 97%. We attribute these leasing trends to several factors, retail sales continue to increase, retailers view growth through expansion most favorably, and the lack of new developments places a premium on existing spaces in well-positioned, high-quality, multi-anchored shopping centers.

On the renewal front, we renewed approximately 83% of expiring leases with a rental growth of positive 6.8%. We see this trend continuing. In fact, demand for spaces in our shopping centers has presented us with an opportunity to be more selective in renewing tenancies and more aggressive in driving rental increases. As a result of our successful leasing program, occupancy in our core properties continues to increase. In the second quarter, we posted a leased occupancy rate of 95.1%. This was the result of positive improvements across all regions of our portfolio. The greatest increases were realized in Georgia, Florida, Ohio and Michigan.

Michigan now has a leased and occupied rate of 97%. The asset management team is focus on supplementing its growth through value-added re-developments and expansions. Tenant interest in our Fox River and Harvest Junction properties will result in lease agreements sufficient to expand those centers in the coming quarters.

Our Roseville re-development involving a Wal-Mart Supercenter and re-tenanting the balance of the center with national retailers is on schedule. And we have identified a pipeline of future projects. Ramco's team continues to focus on driving income and reducing cost with positive effects. In the second quarter, our operating margin was 73.4%, a 190 basis point improvement over last quarter and 210 basis point improvements over the comparable quarter last year.

Achieving our leasing, renewal, income and cost-containment objectives has also improved our same-center NOI performance. We posted a same-center NOI gain of 3.2%.Our asset management team is committed to generating consistent, sustainable, internal growth through operational successes in leasing, value-add re-developments, shopping center expansions and cost containment.

With that I'll turn it over to Greg.

Thank you, Michael. In the second quarter, we took large strides forward in our capital structure and our earnings. I'll begin by covering the balance sheet. Then, I'll review our income from this quarter and conclude with our outlook for the year.

During the quarter, assets increased approximately $50 million. We bought two high quality shopping centers for a combined $58.8 million. Nagawaukee Center, located in a high-income suburb of Milwaukee and Mount Prospect Plaza located in a dense infill suburb of Chicago. Both properties strengthen our presence in existing markets and exemplify our strategy of investing in well anchored centers located in higher income trade areas.

We also sold one non-core property in Atlanta for $8.4 million. During the quarter, our $17 million development of phase one of Parkway Shops in Jacksonville, Florida was completed and opened, and we initiated expansion project at The Shoppes at Fox River and at Harvest Junction.

We funded our $50 million in asset growth with the assumption of a $9.2 million mortgage loan on Nagawaukee Center, the addition of $29.5 million of incremental debt and the issuance of $12.5 million in common equity through our at-the-market equity program.

In terms of liabilities management, we broke new ground in the second quarter by closing a $110 million private placement of senior notes. This was our inaugural issuance in the private placement market. We are delighted to have earned the confidence and support of a highly selective group of net investors. By establishing our access to this source of unsecured net capital, we have demonstrated our ability to diversify beyond the bank market and to extend our debt maturities.

The unsecured notes are in three tranches maturating in eight, 10 and 12 years. The weighted average term is 9.9 years and the weighted average interest rate is 4%. In order to stagger our debt maturities, we also closed a $50 million seven-year bank term loan during the quarter. We swapped the full notional amount of this loan to a fixed interest rate of the current loan spread of 3.5%.

We used the proceeds from these two long-term fixed rate unsecured financings to pay off five maturing mortgage loans totaling $113.6 million and to pay down our line of credit to an outstanding balance at June 30 of just $3 million.

So, let me sum-up our quarter-end financial position following these transactions. One, our debt-to-total market capitalization is 39.3%. Two, our interest coverage is 3.6 times and our fixed charge coverage is 2.5 times. Three, we have over $230 million available under our existing line of credit.

Four, our unencumbered operating real estate provides a borrowing base exceeding $1.1 billion, which equates to 65% of our total operating real estate. And five, our weighted average term of debt, including our pro rata share of joint venture debt has increases to 5.8 years. In short, our financial position provides ever-greater strength and flexibility to execute on our business plan.

Now, let's turn to the income statement. FFO for the quarter was $0.28 per diluted share or 8% higher than the $0.26 reported in the same quarter last year. Here are some of the key items driving FFO this quarter. On the operating side, cash NOI was $31.2 million or $9.6 million higher than in the comparable quarter. This increase reflects the addition of $430 million in real estate for a consolidated balance sheet this year as well as a $150 million of acquisitions closed in 2012. Notably, our acquisition of 12 properties from the Ramco Lion joint venture, which closed in March, is performing slightly ahead of our underwritten expectations.

As Michael noted, same-center NOI increased 3.2%. On a same-center basis, occupancy increased 1.1%. This uptick in occupancy helped drive an increase in rental income by 2.2% and in our recovery ratio by 70 basis points. We reported an overall provision for credit loss of $313,000 this quarter, which add 0.7% of revenue, was the same percentage as reported in the comparable period.

General and administrative expense of $5.6 million for the quarter was higher than the $4.9 million a year ago. G&A in the second quarter included $449,000 of acquisition costs related to closed, pending and dead deals. Our revised forecast for G&A expense for the full year is approximately $21.5 million.

During the quarter, we booked a gain of $332,000 or approximately $0.005 per share on the sale of an outparcel to a restaurant operator at our Parkway Shops development. We expect to close one additional outparcel sale in the fourth quarter that should result in a gain of between $200,000 and $300,000.

Our joint venture results this quarter reflect diminished JV earnings as a result of the sale of 12 properties by the Ramco Lion Venture. For those who are modeling earnings, the amounts reported this quarter for management fee income, earnings from joint ventures and the add-back to FFO of our share of JV depreciation, all reflect approximately quarterly run rates going forward.

Now, let me say a few words about our outlook. We are increasing our 2013 FFO guidance to a range of $1.10 to $1.16 per diluted shares. The $0.04 increase at the mid-point reflects contributions in three areas. On the internal growth front, we now anticipate that same center NOI for the year will be at the high-end of our prior guidance range of 2% to 3%. Both the pace of leasing and the rents being achieved are driving this improvement, which adds about $0.01 per share. On the external growth front, we have added two strong properties to our roster this quarter and returns that are immediately accretive to earnings also by approximately $0.01 per share.

Lastly, our interest expense projection is lower by approximately $0.02 per share, in part because we use our line in the second quarter to prepay mortgages and bridge to our new long-term financing and in part because those long-term financings were priced favorably.

In closing, our financial position has strengthened yet again. Our leasing pipeline remains healthy and our markets continue to provide compelling investment opportunities. We look forward to executing our business plan for the remainder of the year.

With that I'd like to turn the call back to Jessie for Q&A.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now be conducting our question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question is coming from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks. I'm on with Jordan Sadler as well.

Good morning, Todd.

In terms of acquisitions, Dennis, you mentioned an additional $40 million to $80 million in the balance of the year. I was just wondering if you've seen any change in the competition or pricing for property with where interest rates have moved.

Dennis Gershenson

Well, if I could give you just a little broader perspective, starting at the beginning of the year. We saw a significant uptick in supply as well as competition for the assets that we were interested in. Since the end of May or May 21, there has definitely been somewhat of a stall in the market. Less product is indeed coming to market as certain sellers are wondering about the mood of the buyers. We keep in touch with many of our peers and everybody really has somewhat taken a wait-and-see attitude.

I think what we need is the sellers to become more used to what is going on in the environment and to accept the fact that with an interest rate increase, there will obviously have to be some adjustments in cap rates. How large that will be is yet to be determined.

Okay. And these acquisitions, should we expect these to be wholly-owned or are you working with Clarion on these acquisitions? I know you had confirmed an agreement with them after acquiring the 12 properties from them last quarter to move forward with pursuing additional acquisitions?

Right. Without going into their criteria, we do continue to show them opportunities. At this juncture, the $40 million to $80 million we're contemplating would be on balance sheet.

Okay. And then I just wanted to get your thoughts, I know Ramco doesn't own a whole lot of property within the City of Detroit, but sometimes what's good or bad for the City maybe good or bad for the State and have some other implications. I was just wondering if there is anything that you're thinking about or anything that you're doing internally or any impact that you're thinking about regarding the properties that you own in the Metro area given the situation in Detroit.

All right, well first of all, I'm glad you asked the question. We certainly knew that it would come up as part of this call, because some see our Michigan presence as the elephant in the room. From our perspective, if there is an elephant there, it's a baby elephant and we have made it a point in almost all of our conference calls to say that look, not because we have lost faith in Michigan, in the communities we're in, in our assets or our tenants, but because there is this concentration, because we don't think it's healthy to have a more than, approximate 25% that we've referenced, we are working to reduce that concentration in part between acquisitions as well as dispositions.

I think that there are a number of people who truly have done their research on the State of Michigan. Some of them have been here and have seen our centers. However, there are those who don't understand Michigan and Detroit at all. And worse, there are those who don't care to learn about Michigan but are absolutely prepared to articulate a view anyway and that is both frustrating and disappointing.

So let me set the record straight if I could. Number one, just a fact, we do not own any shopping centers or any assets whatsoever in the City of Detroit. We do own shopping centers in the communities that surround the city to the north and to the west. The majority of centers that we own in these areas as well as the majority of the square footage is located in Oakland County and as we've said in the past Oakland County is one of the wealthiest counties in the United States with population over 500,000 people.

Oakland County is also one of only a handful of the 3,100 counties with a AAA credit rating. Our trade areas where our shopping centers are located all have above-average demographics, populations that are well educated, significant job growth that is occurring today and a broad base of both industries and businesses.

Just putting Detroit in this context, we all have to remember that Detroit's problems are not new. They did not occur during the latest recession but have gone on for decades. So any impact that the City of Detroit would have had on our shopping centers, obviously would have occurred over that extended time period, but even in the latest recessions, we were never lower than 92% leased, and primarily – we could go through those tenants, over 90% are national or regional chains.

At the present time we are 97% leased and occupied in Michigan. I'll stack that statistic up against any of our peers. So if you take a look at our assets, where they're located, the rental increases we're experiencing, the demand for space, I will say unequivocally that the Detroit problems will have absolutely no effect on our shopping centers.

Now do we wish Detroit well? We do. Do we believe that with Governor Snyder's help the city can clean house, can restore some fiscal sanity to their existing problems, and come out of this in a much stronger position? We will continue to mind our own business and to take care of our assets and to lease the very few remaining spaces we have in our Michigan shopping centers at ever-increasing rents. I hope that answers your question.

All right, great. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of RJ Milligan with Raymond James & Associates. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning guys. Dennis, in your opening comments you talked about dispositions expected for the second half of the year. I was just wondering if you could quantify those? And at what cap rates you expect those dispositions to happen at?

We are thinking about something in the range of $25 million to $35 million. These will be assets that are located in secondary markets. And typically the anchors that go with these assets are not the type or the credit worthiness of the anchors that we really want in our portfolio going forward.

So I think rather than give you a specific cap rate, we are securing bids as we speak on a number of assets. And I can tell you that Michigan will be the primary source of those sales. Will they exceed the cap rates for the assets we're buying? Absolutely but again I would emphasize that it's the difference in the type and quality of anchors that will make that determination.

Thanks. And can you talk about the – who the potential buyers of these assets are? Are they individual buyers, small buyers? Are they private equity? Who is coming to the market looking for these assets?

It really is a lot of all of the above. There are some institutional players who are looking for higher cap rate acquisitions. But we're finding that individual buyers who are truly prepared to roll up their sleeves and really focus on those assets specifically, because they don't have a rather large portfolio are the people who are coming in with the best offers.

Okay. Thanks. And for the – for your occupancy, if you get small shop occupancy over 90% by the end of the year, where does that take portfolio occupancy?

We anticipate the core – our leased occupancies to really be at the high-end of the range that we've identified, which is pretty much quarter-over-quarter close to this 95% number.

Okay and that's core?

Core. Correct.

He has asked about the entire portfolio.

I mean we see the trend still continuing in economic occupancy for the portfolio as well increasing. There is sort of a relationship. We see the spread changing from quarter-to-quarter, but there is a relationship between our core leased and our combined portfolio leased. That spread can be anywhere from 30 to 80 basis points. We see that – we see basically the combined portfolio increasing as well.

Okay. Thanks. And my last question is just on the acquisitions front. Given the trends that we've seen over the past year and a half and the increase in retailer demand for space, as you think about your target markets, would you prefer an asset that has lease-up opportunity? Or are cap rates still attractive enough to buy a stabilized property that will still provide a good yield?

We have always looked at the potential acquisitions for those that may appear reasonably stable to the seller, but always have value-add opportunity for us, whether we expand an anchor, we expand the center, add an outlot. We just have not been stable asset acquirers.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Vincent Chao of Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning, guys. Just I want to go back to your comments about – it sounds like you're driving some rent growth from some leases that were signed in the 2011/2012 timeframe, when leverage was more in the tenant's hand. Can you just give us some color on how much in terms of leasing is available there? And maybe what the mark-to-market you think looks like on that set of assets or leases?

Let's take the first question, which is really about rental growth, is that accurate?

No, specifically to the comment made about renewings or rolling over some of the 2011/2012 lease signings that were maybe done in tougher times and seeing some opportunity there. I'm just trying to get a sense of how much in terms of square footage that represents and what do you think the mark-to-market on that set of leases looks like?

Well, Vin, I'd really refer to 2008 to 2011. Most of the leases we signed in that timeframe were either three-year or five-year leases. So we're seeing those now rolling over. The ones that obviously we would have signed in 2011 and 2012 will be coming up in 2014, 2015, 2016. Again I think you could use the yardstick that the kind of increases that we're achieving year-to-date anywhere from the 5% to 10% on average increases over the entire group.

One of the issues obviously is in any particular quarter are you negotiating with an anchor or a group of anchors? Or are you negotiating with smaller format tenants, who obviously if we negotiated from 2008 to 2011 we can see a much healthier increase. So depending upon the mix in the quarter it'll vary. But for the year I certainly think 5%, 6%, 7% is not out of the question.

Okay. Thanks. And then just going back to the investment environment, it sounds like people are sitting on their hands a little bit and maybe less assets coming to market. Just curious though on the deal that you are still working on, are you seeing any change in potential buyer behavior in terms of number of buyers on different deals? I know you do probably mostly off-market but – bid ask spreads, things like that. Are you seeing any material changes in those kinds of areas?

I think the reality is it may be a little early. I think we'd be in a better position to answer that in the third quarter, because the deals – again in talking with our peers and our activities, those deals that we're in contracts for we're pretty much sticking with, you test the water a little bit with the seller to see if there might be some movement.

If reasonable questions come up in the acquisition then that will give you more leverage to change the purchase price. But in the main I think people are sticking with the contracts that they have. And we're all waiting just a little bit – maybe another 30 or 60 days – before everybody dives back in and feels comfortable with the cap rates they're willing to buy at will indeed generate transactions with the sellers.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from the line of Mike Mueller with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks. Just a few quick things here. I know you laid out the second half of the year acquisitions and dispositions and guidance. Just want to – and I know it's not going to have a huge impact in this year's estimates, but are those factored into the earnings guidance as well? Or is that just kind of exclusive of it?

It's exclusive of it, Mike, just – that's sort of consistent with how we've always modeled and provided guidance. But as you point out, I don't think it's going to have a big impact one way or the other, because we're heading to the back-half of the year now.

Got it. And as we look forward for the next few years – next couple years, few years, I mean what do you think is a good base line we should be thinking about for asset sales over – in a given year? I mean is it – which is if you're sitting where we are, do you stick it in $50 million, do you think it's more than that per year to kind of get you to your goals?

I think at least a safe number is $30 million to $40 million.

Okay. Got it okay. And then where do you think development, re-development spend ramps up to say in 2014 and 2015 per year?

Well we have – we didn't talk about it on this call, but out there obviously is our project in Lakeland that is a $40 million project. And you could expect that to kick off in the second half of this year with the majority of the spend coming in 2014. But as we've articulated in a number of our past calls, I think the majority of the development you're going to see from us will be things like we're pursuing at Fox River which are typically anywhere from $10 million to $20 million as far as new construction or expansions of the center are concerned,

Okay. And then last question, and I know I can get this from the transcript, but towards the end of your comments, Greg, you rattled off a couple of smaller line items where you said these are good run rates going forward. Can you just hit those again?

Greg Andrews

Yeah, those are anything related to our joint ventures. So the management fee line item, the earnings from joint ventures and then the depreciation add-back in our share. Just because I imagine everyone following the Clarion deal we did in the first quarter is looking for a little guidance on the joint ventures, I think this quarter's run rates for all three of those items are good run rates for modeling purposes

Okay, got it. Thanks. That's it.

Thank you, Michael.

Thank you. We have a question from the line of Edward Okine with Basso Capital. Please proceed with your questions.

Yes. I just had a quick question on the Detroit and Michigan issues. What I am just trying to find out is what percentage of your NOIs comes from that region or that city and State?

As Dennis said, none of our NOI comes from the City of Detroit.

Well, actually, I'm sorry, what I meant was...

In the southeast Michigan area, which includes the surrounding counties is about 30% of our net operating income, which as Dennis pointed out is largely from Oakland County but also includes Macomb and Wayne Counties.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] It appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr. Dennis Gershenson for any concluding remarks.

Ladies and gentlemen, as always, we truly appreciate your interest and your attention. This organization is on an upward trend. We are very excited about the balance of 2013 as well as the prospects for our portfolio and we look forward to talking to you in approximately 90 days. Be well.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.