raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2006 Ramco-


Gershenson Properties Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Lisa [ph], and I will be your


coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Ms.


Dawn Hendershot. Please proceed, ma’ am.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust Third Quarter


Conference Call. I am hopeful that everyone received our press release and supplemental financial


package, which are available on our website at rgpt.com. At this time, management would like me


to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, may


be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson believes the expectations reflected in any


forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that it's


expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from


expectations are detailed in the press release, and from time-to-time in the company's filings with


the FTC. Additionally, we want to let everyone know that the information in statements made


during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replays should understand that


the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made.


Also, the contents of the call are the property of the company and any replay or transmission of the


call may be done only with the consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust. Having said that, I


would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President and CEO, and Richard Smith, CFO.


And at this time I would like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dawn. Good morning, and welcome to our third quarter call. In addition to meeting first


call estimates of 63 cents per share, we're pleased to report successes in each of our 3 profit


centers. In the area of acquisitions we purchased Collins Pointe Plaza in Cartersville, Georgia, a


suburb of Atlanta. This center of 81,000 square feet will join our second quarter acquisition,


Paulding Pavilion, as the first 2 of 3 centers that will form the basis of our soon-to-be signed $75


million joint venture with the Heitman Discretionary Fund, focused on the realization of above


average returns from opportunistic acquisitions. Although each asset is relatively small in size


compared to our average center size, we are presently exploring the expansion of both centers as


part of their repositioning plan. In addition to our share of cash flow from the shopping centers, we


will receive from the venture an acquisition fee, an asset management fee, and a property


management fee, as well as leasing, tenant coordination, and redevelopment fees.


We are presently negotiating an option for a third acquisition, which along with Collins Point and


Paulding Pavilion, plus the capital required to reposition these centers, will equal the total $75


million commitment. This joint venture is distinctly different from our existing relationships with the


Clarion Lion Fund, as the Heitman relationship is focused on distressed assets that are well-located


and present opportunities to add substantial value. This exciting opportunity is not the joint venture


I mentioned last quarter where we planned to seed the relationship with several of our Core [ph]


and Core Plus [ph] shopping centers. We recently expect to announce that venture in the fourth


quarter. Although it will have many of the characteristics of our existing joint venture with ING, it


will cover a distinctly different geographic area.
raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


Our development group is hard at work putting the finishing touches on our River City marketplace


in Jacksonville, Florida in preparation for the grand opening of Phase I of the center. For those of


you have followed our progress on this development project, we work hard to produce a shopping


center that the city can be proud of. Occupying 125 acres and 3/4 of a mile frontage on I-95, this


power and town center project, at the time of the grand opening, will have over 720,000 square feet


of retail tenants signed. On November 17 the Wal-Mart Super store; Lowe's Home Improvement;


Ross Dress for Less; Michaels Crafts; Office Max; Old Navy; Bed, Bath, Beyond; PetsMART, and a


14 screen Hollywood Cinema, along with 22 retailers, will welcome our customers. Phase II of this


project was originally planned for a construction start in 2008.


We are announcing today the signing of a 55,000 square foot lease with Gander Mountain. We are


also in final leasing negotiations with 2 other mid-box ph retailers who will round out our anchor


line-up. We are now planning to commence construction on our Phase II this coming spring, a year


ahead of schedule. The development team is also presently working on preliminary plans for 2


additional shopping centers. We are optimistic that at least 1 of these centers will break ground in


2007. In the third quarter we sold a parcel of land at our Lakeshore Marketplace on the west side


of the state of Michigan to Target for the construction of a 127,000 square foot store. Target joins 5


other anchors at this 475,000 square foot power center. The addition of Target, not only


strengthens our tenant mix and further validates our location as the retail focus for the trade area


but it will also allow us to achieve even higher rental rates from our smaller retail tenancies. Within


a week of closing on the target sale we commenced discussions with another one of our anchor


retailers at this center for an additional value added improvement. Thus Lakeshore Marketplace


joins numerous other core portfolio centers that because of their strategic location and anchor draw


present us with multiple opportunities to continue to add value.


In addition to our Lakeshore redevelopment we have just announced the signing of a lease with


Office Depot at out West Alice center in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Office Depot signing heralds


the commencement of a significant value added redevelopment at this center. The details of our


plans will be presented over the next few months. The announcement for West Alice and


Lakeshore Marketplace bring to 6 the number of value added projects we currently have underway.


Of that number 3 are significant Michigan value added projects involving national anchor tenants.


These retailers have determined independently the desirability of the respective Michigan markets.


Last quarter I discussed both demographic and anchor retail commitments that support a viable


consumer economy in Michigan and especially Oakland and Macomb counties where are


metropolitan Detroit centers are located.


Our shopping centers in Michigan continue to be some of the best performers in our portfolio.


Statistics that support this statement include an occupancy rate at quarter end for our Michigan


centers at 96% and same center growth of 2.7%. Further, rental rates on new leases, I'm sorry, on


leases renewed in Michigan exceeded 11% over the prior rental rates and for new leases signed in


Michigan we are achieving a rental rate of approximately 19% above portfolio average.


I can tell you that some of the highest rental rates we are achieving in the portfolio for spaces over


2,000 square feet, which are only 30 and $40 dollars per square foot range, are occurring in


metropolitan Detroit, in Oakland and Macomb counties.


On the leasing front for portfolio wide we are experiencing significant increases in non anchor as


well as anchor renewals at 16% and 12% increases respectively over prior rental rates. We are


also extremely pleased with both the number of new leases signed at 32 non anchor and 7 anchor


leases as well as the rents achieved.