raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Carlisa[ph] and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Ramco-Gershenson Property[sic] Third Quarter


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator instructions] Thank you.


Ms. Hendershot, you may begin your conference.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust’s third quarter


conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and supplemental


financial package, which are available on our website at www.rgpt.com.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call which are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. Additionally, we want to let everyone know that


the information and statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners


to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the


statements made. Also, the contents of the call are the property of the Company and any replay or


transmission of the call may be done only with the consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


Having said that, I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive


Officer, and Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer and, at this time, would like to turn the call over


to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Trustee


Thank you, Dawn. Welcome all. I am pleased to report that this has been a very productive 90


days. We have, for all intents and purposes, finished the two Michigan developments, Beacon


Square and Gaines Marketplace. We’ve announced a new development, Rossford Pointe, which,


although modest in size, reinforces the validity of and the draw for our existing Crossroads Centre


in Toledo, Ohio. At our Jacksonville, Florida project, River City Marketplace, we have recently


announced the signing of Ross Dress for Less in 30,000 square feet. And although I had hoped to


include a number of additional anchor signings at this time, we are within 30 to 45 days of


announcing three to four national retailers of consequence who will round out our tenant mix


allowing us to open the center next summer with over 500,000 square feet. Still in the area of


development, we are presently investigating a number of new opportunities, several of which we


reasonably expect to start in the second half of 2006.


Our asset management team has been busy this last quarter with the announcement of the Home


Depot store for our Taylor, Michigan location, the commencement of construction of the Petsmart


Super Store in our Spring Meadows Center in Toledo, Ohio, and the 30,000 square foot addition to


Jackson Crossing in Jackson, Michigan. Each of these value-added expansions improves the


center’s net asset value, broadens our customer draw as well as tenant mix, and increases net


operating income. In 2005, we have commenced, have underway, or have completed more value-
raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


added redevelopments than at any time during our history. Several of these redevelopments, like


many of the announcements we have made over the years, are the second, third, fourth or more


positive improvements and/or expansions to already successful shopping centers. I am pleased to


report that the number of already identified opportunities to add value to our core portfolio shopping


centers stretches well into the next few years.


On the leasing front, you will note in this quarter a dip both for our anchor and non-anchor


averages. Historically, we have not differentiated in the anchor category between land leases and


building leases. The land lease we signed in the third quarter, although at a healthy rent, falls short


of our anchor average when divided by the square footage of the proposed building to be


constructed thereon. This should be obvious on its face as a rental for land only will not compare to


situations where the tenant’s rental is based on a formula that includes the land, site work and


building. Going forward, we will attempt to provide statistics that break out our anchors between


land leases and building rentals.


Relative to the smaller tenants, our average this quarter, excluding just three leases, would have


approximated our portfolio average of $14.40. Two of these three new tenancies were for large,


difficult spaces to lease, thus generating below-average rentals. The third below average rental


rate was for a retailer who had to be moved in order to accommodate the TJ Maxx expansion in


Jackson Crossing.


In reviewing the spaces leased this quarter, I am very satisfied with the progress we are making in


filling existing vacancies, renewing expiring tenancies, and the rentals we have achieved. With the


tenants who have opened this quarter and the retailers with whom we have signed leases but have


not yet opened, as well as those we are in the process of signing, we continue to move in on an


occupancy rate of 95%.


Our current occupancy number should be viewed in light of two major vacancies we intentionally


created in the last 90 days at our Tel-Twelve Shopping Center. That is, Circuit City and now Media


Play. Together, they equal approximately 90,000 square feet. As with the Circuit City termination,


the fee paid by Media Play approximates two years of rent and variable charges. However, we will


be announcing replacement tenants for both of these newly-created vacancies before year end.


During the quarter, we opened our regional office in Florida. With the inclusion of River City


Marketplace, we have 23 centers in the state. It was our conclusion that based on the number of


assets in the market, we can be more responsive, efficient and productive in serving our shopping


centers locally. Further, by creating a Florida asset management focus, we can better establish


leasing and net income accountability.


Also during the quarter, we announced the signing of a brokerage agreement for the sale of at least


seven of our shopping centers. In this very frothy market, we believe this is an ideal time to offer


for sale those assets which no longer fit in our long-range business plan. The third quarter marks


the first timeframe since our joint venture was created wherein we have not made an acquisition for


our Lion Fund[ph] Partnership. Cap[ph] rates for core and core plus centers have continued to


decline, making it harder to find those acquisition targets which we believe provide the type of long-


term values that justify current pricing. We are, however, not sitting on the sidelines but are trying


to be selective in our choices. At the present time, we are reviewing a number of acquisition


candidates and reasonably expect to make at least one more purchase before year end.


As I contemplated my remarks for this call, I reviewed our achievements year-to-date, the efforts of


our management team and the substantial progress we’ve made in all three of our profit centers.


We have proven that we can acquire a significant number of assets at favorable pricing in a


competitive marketplace. We’ve shown that we can increase the pace of new developments as a


higher return profit center when acquisition returns become more problematic. And we have