Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Dawn L. Hendershot — Vice President-Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Dennis Earl Gershenson — President & Chief Executive Officer, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
John M. Hendrickson — Chief Operating Officer, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Geoffrey Bedrosian — Chief Financial Officer, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Catherine J. Clark — Senior Vice President - Acquisitions, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Collin P. Mings — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Todd M. Thomas — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Craig Richard Schmidt — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Vineet Khanna — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
George Andrew Hoglund — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Vincent Chao — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Floris van Dijkum — Analyst, Boenning & Scattergood, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust Fourth Quarter Year End 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Dawn Hendershot, Vice President of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us for the fourth quarter and year end 2016 earnings conference call for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust. With me today are Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer; John Hendrickson, Chief Operating Officer; Geoff Bedrosian, Chief Financial Officer; and Cathy Clark, Executive Vice President of Transactions.

At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Additionally, statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the quarterly press release.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.

Thank you, Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning, we'll discuss our fourth quarter and year end 2016 results. We will also provide details about our 2017 business plan and our vision for delivering long-term shareholder value.

In 2016, a time of significant headwinds for our industry, especially with the bankruptcies and liquidations of several national retailers, we were still able to execute on a number of our stated business objectives. John and Geoff will provide the details for our fourth quarter and year-end results.

We also used our time in 2016 to refine our long-term business strategy, as we continue to position our company to benefit from the significant changes that were occurring in the shopping center industry. Those elements that will drive our crucial decisions revolve around market selection, shopping center type, merchandise mix and changing consumer preferences.

We believe that our decisions in these areas will ensure that our business model will be relevant in any future retail environment, especially in light of the expanding channels of distribution, as well as changing consumer demographics.

Our plans for 2017 and the next 36 months are influenced by three main factors beyond macroeconomic concerns that are having a dramatic impact on the shopping center industry including; first, the impact of e-commerce and digital communications in an omnichannel environment; second, the ongoing plight of healthy retailers to market dominant, quality real estate to insulate themselves from risk as they rationalize store count as well as store sizes; and third, the convergence of retail to offer both value and a rewarding experience for the customer. In other words, we are seeing a fundamental change in consumer habits.

Thus, retailers who will succeed going forward must understand and adapt to the these changes and those shopping centers that will thrive tomorrow thus not only have market dominant locations, but also must be occupied by those retailers who understand the changing trends and rise to meet them.

All of these factors are driving both our short-term and long-term management and investment strategies, so that we will have positioned ourselves to succeed in this evolving retail environment. Specifically, in 2017, we plan to do the following. First, we are expanding our reach into key growth markets, beyond our current Midwest focus. This will involve selling approximately $250 million of non-core Michigan properties, specifically, those centers outside of Oakland County and Metropolitan Detroit and acquiring approximately $250 million of market dominant shopping centers in the 40 largest MSAs.

These acquisitions and dispositions will substantially complete the transformation of our portfolio, driving a healthy increase in net asset value. Important characteristics of those markets, which are the subject of our focus include high population, employment and household income growth. On the asset sales side, the sale of our Michigan shopping centers outside of Oakland County will reduce our rental exposure in Michigan to less than 20% by the end of 2017.

Further, by limiting our Michigan presence to Oakland County, we will have concentrated our Michigan assets in the 24th Wealthiest County in the nation and one of only approximately 30 counties or 1% of all U.S. counties with a AAA credit rating.

As of this date, we have made significant progress toward executing on this first goal by acquiring two shopping centers with a value of approximately $170 million and selling one center in Flint, Michigan, as well as preparing to close on the sale of a second Michigan asset, which together will generate approximately $28.5 million. We have other Michigan shopping centers in the market and the proceeds from these sales will be used to fund our acquisitions.

Our second initiative involves deploying our capital and selling non-core assets to concentrate our portfolio on two types of shopping centers; first, large, regionally dominant centers, which include value-oriented retailers, preferably with a grocery component, restaurants and entertainment users, as well as a substantial amount of small shop space of at least 60,000 square feet to 100,000 square feet. These centers will also possess the potential for additional value creation through redevelopment, re-tenanting and expansions.

Our second asset focus is on in-fill urban-oriented centers with high barriers to entry. These centers cater to large daytime and evening populations with significant entertainment and restaurant components that will generate ever-increasing net operating income growth.

Examples of our expansion into new markets, as well as the pursuit of the two shopping center formats, I've just mentioned are reflected in our recent acquisitions of Providence Marketplace in Nashville, Tennessee; and two urban-oriented centers, Centennial Shops in Minneapolis, Minnesota, acquired in the fourth quarter of last year and Webster Place in Lincoln Park, an affluent Chicago neighborhood. All three of these acquisitions are located in what are considered 18-hour cities. The two urban-oriented infill assets also present the opportunity for potential mixed-use development partnerships.

Our third focus for 2017 and beyond involves maximizing the value of each of our core shopping centers, including our recent acquisitions. Thus, in 2017, we will be stepping up our redevelopment program, including densifying our properties by adding additional retail square footage to a number of our centers and creating a sense of place at several others. John will provide additional information on these value-add programs.

I would now like to turn the call over to John for his remarks.

Thank you, Dennis. Good morning, everyone. I would like to expand on Dennis' remarks by first discussing full-year 2016 operational results and then summarizing our operational outlook and expectations for 2017 and beyond in the context of today's business plan.

In general, our team and our portfolio performed well in 2016 and with the completion of the portfolio upgrades Dennis outlined, we are well positioned for the future during this evolving time in our business. Our portfolio produced same-store NOI growth of 2.8% for the full-year of 2016, including the impact of the Sports Authority liquidating its four store that cost $1.8 million of downtime and bad debt expense in 2016.

Had we not had this extraordinary impact, we would have been at the top end of our guidance range with a growth of 3.9%. Good execution of our leasing and other goals from our portfolio teams helped drive this result. Growth was also helped by the opening of 15 anchor leases we discussed during 2016 and nearly $44 million of redevelopment projects that stabilized in 2015 and 2016, which altogether contributed $2.6 million of NOI growth during the year.

These projects include our repositioning of West Oaks shopping center that bought Michigan's first Container Store and our second Nordstrom Rack to this Oakland County dominant center; the addition of DSW to Spring Meadows in Ohio; and the introduction of Stein Mart to Town & Country Crossing in St. Louis and also to Winchester Center, another Oakland Country asset.

As was the case for 2016, our redevelopment pipeline is an important part of growth for 2017 and 2018. After the 2016 completion, our current pipeline of projects is 70 million square feet, which includes the addition of 230,000 square feet of new retail GLA to the portfolio. During the quarter, we added two projects: the 28,000 square foot expansion of our Nordstrom Rack, REI anchored Troy Marketplace, a further investment in Oakland County; and the addition of a new 44,000 square foot nine-screen theater building to anchor our Main Street, Woodbury Lakes in Minneapolis.

The theater operator is one of the best dine-in theater chains in the country, which will bring a unique offering to Woodbury's market in early 2018 and provide an important driver for the property. This project is the first step of multi-phase enhancements at Woodbury Lakes. The strategic redevelopment and those elsewhere including at Deerfield Towne Center and Front Range Village are all about making environment that create emotional attachments with the consumer and create long-term value.

While driving value on their own, these redevelopments and anchor upgrades will also help push rents and occupancy at each asset. Our leased occupancy finished the year at 94.4% with anchor occupancy at 97% and small shop occupancy at 88.2%.

While partially offset by gains elsewhere, the 40 basis points decrease in comparable leased anchor occupancy during the year is primarily attributed to the loss of Sports Authority. We now have agreements on three of the four locations. At the last location in Fort Collins, Colorado, we are continuing to explore opportunities, but remain patient to maximize value within the context of the property's overall master plan.

Small shop leased occupancy increased by 110 basis points during the year on a comparable basis and that's within the goal that we laid out at the beginning of the year. In addition to this increased occupancy, we were also able to achieve annual fixed increases during the term in 74% of the shop transaction, which is substantially more than what we had achieved previously. We believe this portfolio, over time, should have a target of small shop occupancy of 91%. So, continuing to push shop occupancy at least another 100 basis points, while maintaining the quality of the leases will be again the goal of 2017.

For the year, we executed 326 transactions totaling 2 million square feet, which was a 14% increase in transaction volume compared to 2015. Our total comparable lease spread was 9.2% for the quarter and 9% for the year, essentially equivalent to 2015's level, while also achieving better and better growth. This increase in leasing volume and improvement in leasing quality again is the testament to our regional operations teams, who generally achieve their annual goals during 2016, the first full-year in our regional setup.

The average rent on all deals executed for the year was $15.67 per square foot, which exceeds our portfolio average by more than 10%. Our portfolio quality upgrade and these rental increases, help drive our overall rent per square foot by approximately 5% year-over-year.

Furthermore, the average rent excluding ground leases on all three recent acquisitions is $20.50 per square foot, 80% more than the average of $11.40 for the assets that we have or will sell to fund the acquisition. We, therefore, expect post-continued improvement in portfolio average base rents in 2017, reflecting our higher quality portfolio.

Turning to 2017, I remain very encouraged by the operating fundamentals of the portfolio and our prospects for continued future growth. We expect same-center to be 2.5% to 3.5% in 2017. While tenant bankruptcy is a normal part of our business and there certainly are headwinds now in the evolving landscape for several retailers, we still feel the full liquidation of a tenant like Sports Authority is an unusual occurrence and resulted in 2016 having downtime and bad debt of $1.8 million above a typical year.

Nonetheless, reflecting today's uncertainty, our midpoint 2017 forecast assumes this same level of reserve. If the impact of our watch list reserves returns to a normal level, we would expect to achieve the top end of our same-center guidance range, which is within the long-term growth for target of 3% to 4% that we have previously outlined.

Furthermore, the benefit of our 2017 anchor leasing, improved small shop occupancy and the impact of 2017 and 2018 redevelopment stabilizations should prepare us well for growth in 2018 and beyond. Also, our portfolio upgrade should further enhance growth over the next few years. Excluding any redevelopment benefits, we believe that the forward five-year average NOI growth for our three acquisitions will be about 4% compared to less than 2% for the properties we are selling to fund the acquisition.

Therefore, following unforeseen occurrences, we believe our portfolio has good mid-term growth prospects. Despite certain retailer concerns, many of our flagship retailers are continuing to grow including T.J. Maxx, Ross, Nordstrom Rack, ULTA, Home Goods, Sephora, Dick's, Rally House and Petco, just to name a few.

Also, our business is now more than just a type of retail. In addition to providing consumers the right mix of value and daily needs retail, as Dennis said, today's and tomorrow's consumer is demanding that bricks-and-mortar retail delivery and experience. This is why we're investing in place making and continuing to expand our Community First initiative.

It is also why entertainment and food have become an important, although balanced part of our portfolio. In fact, each of our three recent acquisitions have a dominant entertainment concept as an anchoring. And for our current portfolio, food and entertainment represent approximately 15% of our AVR at the end of 2016.

So in conclusion, 2016 was a good year despite some headwinds. I'm confident 2017 will be another successful operating year. We are envisioning the future of retail today and our team and our portfolio are well positioned to create value in a changing environment over the next several years.

That concludes my comments, I will now turn the call over to Geoff.

Thanks, John and good morning everyone. I'm happy to report, we had a solid year of financial performance in the face of a difficult retail landscape that included the impact of the Sports Authority Bankruptcy. A couple of key accomplishments include: reporting non-strategic asset sales of $122 million, which represents the high end of our guidance for 2016; ending the year within our leverage target range; and delivering full year operating FFO at the high end of our guidance; and as John mentioned earlier, we had solid leasing performance in our portfolio. We would like to thank all of the Ramco team members for working collaboratively to accomplish the company's objectives in 2016.

Now, let's review the numbers. Operating FFO for the fourth quarter was $0.33 per share, down from $0.34 per share in the fourth quarter of 2015. The year-over-year operating FFO was impacted by lower cash NOI of $0.02, the result of capital recycling and lower lease termination fee income of $0.01, offset by higher non-cash rent of $0.01 and lower G&A expense of $0.01. We ended the quarter with net debt to adjusted EBITDA of 6.3 times and the fixed charge coverage ratio of 3.2 times.

For the full year, operating FFO was $1.36 per share, up from $1.34 per share in 2015. The full year result was at the high end of our guidance range and represented another strong shelling by our operating team.

Same-store NOI, including redevelopments increased 1% during the quarter and was negatively impacted by one-time accrual adjustment that reduced same-store NOI by 110 basis points. For the full year same-store NOI increased 2.8% and was negatively impacted by 110 basis points due to the Sports Authority bankruptcy. Minimum rents were a consistently positive contributor to same-store NOI over the course of 2016, driving 240 basis points of growth in the fourth quarter and full year, which highlights the strength of our leasing team and the quality of our portfolio.

Last night, we initiated 2017 operating FFO guidance at a range of $1.34 per share to $1.38 per share and we provided a reconciliation from our reported 2016 operating FFO per share to our expected guidance range for 2017. As Dennis previously outlined, we expect to recycle $250 million of predominantly Michigan assets into our targeted growth markets.

The effect of our capital recycling will result in an impact of $0.07 per share or will be offset by $0.05 of growth from same-store NOI with redevelopment and $0.02 from interest savings. At the completion of our recycling program in 2017, the company will have harvested value from over $370 million of investments in a two year period and redeploy the capital into new opportunities to create long-term value for our shareholders.

From a modeling standpoint, we're modeling our dispositions using a mid-year convention with two-thirds of our acquisitions occurring in the first half of the year with a balance in the second half of the year. Our guidance for same-store NOI growth including redevelopment is 2.5% to 3.5%.

The range reflects some potential variability with respect to this year's ultimate disposition pool. We anticipate minimum rent to contribute 250 basis points at the midpoint; expenses, net of recovery income will contribute 65 basis points of growth at the midpoint, positively impacted by the re-tenanting of our Sports Authority locations.

The full year 2016 recovery rate highlighted on our same property disclosure on page eight of our supplement is a good base for future recovery rates, which we expect to marginally increase in 2017 as we complete the re-tenanting of our vacant Sports Authority boxes. We have also assumed approximately 40 basis points of bad debt expense in our guidance, offsetting same-store NOI growth by 15 basis points.

Our same-store NOI growth for 2017 assumes $48 million of redevelopment projects coming online, generating an average yield of 9% to 10% weighted towards the second half of the year. Combined with projects that were completed in 2016, we expect the impact of development projects to increase NOI by $3.25 million in 2017. From a capital market standpoint, we expect to opportunistically raise $50 million of unsecured debt during the second half of the year to reduce the balance of our revolving credit facility and extend the duration of our balance sheet.

At this point in the cycle, we are extremely pleased with the position of our balance sheet. With the weighted average term of seven years and a weighted average interest rate of 3.95%, our balance sheet is extremely healthy and provides a flexibility to execute our recycling plan and drive value for our shareholders. We anticipate ending 2017 at a 6.5 times to 6.7 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA. Although our leverage will trend slightly higher this year, as we execute our capital recycling plan, our intermediate target remains in the low six times area.

While we maybe foregoing short-term growth with our asset sales in 2017, we believe our higher quality portfolio and leases coming online in the second half of the year will position the company for sustainable long-term growth.

I would like to now turn the call over to the operator to open the line for questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James. Please state your question.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

I guess, just first question from me, just maybe going back to the comments about increasing leverage this year. Can Dennis, Geoff, maybe you guys talk a little bit more about your comfort level increasing leverage at this point in the cycle? And then just along those lines, I think you touched on unsecured debt that you're looking to raise this year in the range of $50 million. What type of pricing would you expect on that?

Sure, Collin. I think as it relates to leverage, leverage will be kind of higher at the first half of the year as we've executed a couple of acquisitions that we've funded on the line. And then, it will naturally come down as we execute our dispositions. So, we feel comfortable with the target range that we've laid out for 2017. And so, I think that's how you should be thinking about leverage, just kind of increasing first half and kind of naturally coming down of asset sales in the second quarter, third quarter, and fourth quarter.

As far as the debt raise, I guess, as we're thinking about $50 million opportunistically be weighted certainly in the last half of the year, probably the fourth quarter, just given our thinking right now. And right now, we're looking at close to somewhere around $160 million to $170 million over the 10 year, so we would – we're thinking about a little bit more conservatively, just because we don't know how much volatility is in the market, but at least as of now that's a good benchmark and where the 10-year pricing would be for us.

Okay. That's helpful. And then just following-up as far as on the planned dispositions, I mean last year, I believe you guys achieved, call it, blended cap rate on about 7.6% on what you were selling. Clearly, the guidance this year has been an increase over that, how much of that is a function of just kind of what you are focused on selling this year, the types of properties and location versus just the general uplift as far as cap rates in the market right now?

Yeah, Collin, it's Dennis. One of the things that we didn't say in the press release, or really addressing the comments here is that included in our dispositions is one enclosed mall in a tertiary market. And that is really driving the average cap rate up by about an estimate around 50 basis points. So excluding that mall, we certainly see the rest of the assets selling somewhere in the 7s.

That said, the majority of these markets – understand, that these are all good assets. But they are in smaller markets, that are – and they don't reflect where we're taking the company. So although we feel good about those Michigan assets, the bottom-line is that with our focus as I articulated in my prepared remarks, they just don't fit any longer in where we plan to go and obviously, that also then decreases the impact of Michigan on the overall portfolio.

Okay. That's helpful, Dennis. And then one more question and I'll turn it over. I just want to reconcile. I think, in the prepared remarks, you guys were talking about call it about a 36-month plan as far as kind of transition, but I think Dennis, you also referenced that kind of the 10% of the portfolio that you're recycling this year should substantially complete the transformation of the portfolio. I'm just trying to get a better sense of kind of the drag from some of the dilution that's going to happen this year and likely into 2018. Should we expect another round of 5% to 10% of the portfolio turning over next year, as you guys think about the pipeline or is it kind of this year going to be the bulk of what you expect on the disposition front?

Well, first of all, I apologize if I sent an improper message. When I talked about 36-months, I was really talking about our overall growth plan would encompass the 36-month period. Now, they have been lifting relative to dispositions ends in 2017 and we expect to initiate growth in 2018 with the objective of having sustainable growth in FFO of anywhere from 4% to 6%.

Okay. Appreciate that. I'll turn it over. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks. Good morning. First question, John, I think you touched on this a bit in your remarks, but can you just provide an update on the timing on where you are in terms of backfilling the four Sports Authority boxes and two Golfsmith stores. Sounds like there are some pickup in guidance from re-tenanting these boxes, I guess. What's in the model in terms of rent commencements in 2017?

Sure. We – of the four boxes, we have three deals done, as I mentioned, a fourth one being in Fort Collins. So from a commencement standpoint, the one that Dick's took and – down in Florida will actually commence probably in end of March or sometime in April this year.

The deals that we have for Nagawaukee will commence in the fourth quarter, but our Wisconsin location where we have two T.J. Maxx concepts in there. And then the Clinton Pointe location, which we are just about to sign a lease on will probably not commence until early 2017 – 2018, I'm sorry, early 2018. So, that's basically what's in our forecast right now.

Regarding Golfsmith, actually we have two Golfsmith locations. One actually was taken by Golf Galaxy, the location in Troy, Michigan. So that will – that actually – there won't be any impact, no downtime from that in 2017. And the other one, we are in the process of still working – we're working on leasing. So, our assumption is that there is downtime for the whole year, but hopefully we can make up some of that late in the year.

Okay. And then, can you talk about your exposure to Gander Mountain, the two boxes you have, it's about 110 basis points of base rent. I know there are two of your stronger centers West Oaks and River City, but any sense what may happen there and can you just talk about some potential plans or thoughts to the extent that you get those boxes back?

Sure. So, we [indiscernible] (31:15) and we have the two locations. It's uncertain what will happen, I mean, certainly somebody we're watching. Our belief is that the two locations we have – even though, we don't have direct sales information or four-wall EBITDA information, but our understanding is that there are two set of locations. And as you mentioned, they're both very strong properties for us. So we have already started to work on potential backfills if we need to. And we feel comfortable that we'll be able to backfill – even though it would have an impact obviously if they do close in 2017, it could impact which is why it has taken a longer – that's why we have taken a longer – I mean, a bigger reserve in 2017 than we would certainly think to be a typical year.

And just a one thing to point out, again, we had just downsized down in our Novi, Michigan location to put in Nordstrom Rack, so that's just one plus [indiscernible] (32:24) that I think they should be much more comfortable with in the long-term. And also as you know, we've had quite a change in that merchandising there, so just makes it stronger and stronger.

Okay. And then just shifting over to acquisition. So you're more than 50% in the way through the 2017 guidance for investments. What's the pipeline look like today? What are you seeing in terms of pricing and trends on for pricing and competition for these assets that you're targeting?

I'll take that. This is Cathy. So I think that relative to the types of assets that we're trying to buy, we're not seeing a large change in pricing. I think that we'll see the pipeline increase. There was a fair amount of property that was out last year that did not transact. And from our understanding that's been a come back into the market, as sellers get a little bit more realistic on pricing and I think those will be probably in the fixed cap range.

Okay. And then on the dispositions, I guess just last question, Cathy, maybe also Geoff could chime in. How far down the road are you with potential buyers on some of these assets including the enclosed mall you mentioned. Can you just give us a sense of how confident you are on getting these dispositions completed particularly, given the strategy to buy first and temporarily increase leverage here?

Yeah. So, given what we've seen thus far, I think we're fairly comfortable. By the end of the first quarter, we'll close a little bit over $28 million. We've already taken off an another $32 million. One of those properties had a fair amount of upside, we were pleasantly surprised on Michigan property. We had 10 bidders, five or six were pretty tight on the pricing range. And we're able to market with another probably $75 million to $85 million. So, I think based on the effort, fairly confident we can execute on our plan.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America. Please state your question.

Great. Within the existing portfolio, will you be looking to sell assets not in the top 40 MSAs that are outside of the State of Michigan?

Yeah. Hi, Craig. We will – obviously, as we continue to evolve the portfolio, Look at some assets that again don't fit the criteria of the two focuses that we've got. And those will obviously help fund acquisitions. So on a selective basis, as we're opportunistic on the acquisition, so with – there are a few assets and very good assets that we will indeed utilize to pay for the acquisitions. But you won't see anything close to even what we sold in 2016 as far as dispositions are concerned.

Okay. And then the $250 million of dispositions this year, how far does they get you through removing the non-core assets from your portfolio?

Well, again, to the extent that there will be some assets in the portfolio that fit that – either fit the property deposition, but may not be in the top 40 MSAs. We'll obviously look at those, again to try and match-up some acquisitions and dispositions. But over 90% of the portfolio at the present time are in the MSAs that we're focused on.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Vineet Khanna with Capital One Securities. Please state your question.

Yeah, hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Just going back to tenant health for a little bit. So, I believe you guys have a couple MC Sports and that's sort of another sporting goods retailer to close. What other struggling retailers do you guys have exposure to? I know you mentioned, Gander, but maybe just you can just talk about MC Sports and then also your watch list in general?

Sure. So, on MC Sports, you are right. MC Sports is a regional sports operator, sporting goods retailer, who – we have two locations totaling about 45,000 square feet. They are – apparently are going to be liquidating and we're expecting to get the stores back some time in April. And are actively working on backfills and in fact, we believe we have already one of them potentially backfilled.

Looking at our other locations, the – I mean, there's only handful of other things outside of the list that you've got – probably aren't heard that we're keeping an eye on including Payless ShoeSource, where we only have eight locations totaling 25,000 square feet. And also rue21, where we have a lot of locations. Beyond that, that's a really – I mean, that's generally besides a few small shops here or there, we don't have a broad watch list that we're overly concerned about.

Okay. Great. And then, just regarding the sort of increased redevelopment plans for this year and beyond, how much of that is sort of entitled and ready to go as opposed to there's work that still needs to be done?

Our existing pipeline of $70 million are all at this point that are comfortable that from a execution standpoint, both from leasing standpoint and titled point standpoint. And so, we tend not to try to put anything on the pipeline until it's pretty well at the point of that we're comfortable on the execution, and have a low risk on execution. So, I think we feel pretty comfortable up in near term execution.

Okay. And then, just last one from me, the ancillary income initiative that I guess you guys started about a year ago, maybe you can provide sort of an update on how it trended in 2016 and what the prospects are for 2017?

Sure. Yeah, I didn't mention, I forgot to give you, that was a – still growth opportunity and it still is. For the year, we added about, it's all about a 10% growth in that line item. I want to talk about the dollar magnitude, it's only $100,000 to $200,000 from a growth standpoint. I mean, over time, we certainly think 10% growth over the next few years is something we should be able to achieve at that line item. I would have hoped for more in the first year, but certainly, we're going to [indiscernible] (40:06) of execution. So it's certainly going to be a focus in 2017 and beyond.

Okay. Great. Thanks for the time.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of George Hoglund with Jefferies. Please state your question.

Hey, good morning. Just in terms of market focus going forward in terms of new markets, I mean, you're looking at Nashville and you have the one large asset there now. Would the Plan B to try to increase the Nashville exposure and your focus on building up that market and kind of what other markets would you be looking at?

Hi, George. We – certainly, with the acquisition in Nashville, as you can see from our past experience, we would be looking to increase our presence in Nashville. But again, it would have to meet the criteria that we've laid out relative to the two types of shopping centers. As far as other markets are concerned, we are indeed looking at a number of other markets. Once again, they have to have those key growth elements relative to population, employment and household income.

Okay, thanks. And then going beyond 2017, Dennis, I know you said the majority of that heavy lifting will be done, but would you expect to continue to do some sort of one-off asset sales, continue calling [indiscernible] (41:39) 5% or 10% of the portfolio?

I think that's – yeah, absolutely it's a sensible approach. Especially, with assets that – let's assume we have maximized its value, they're now very stable, we don't see too terribly much upside. What's interesting is, in the assets that we are sealing and again these are good assets. Their growth potential fell somewhere between 1% and 2%. The three assets that we have acquired have internal growth metrics between contract increases as well as lease rollovers, we're talking about increases in the 4% range. So, as some of our assets fall into the first category with slower growth, they indeed could be candidates for sale, but we would look to match that up with acquisitions where we can add significant value.

Okay. Thank you for the color.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning, everyone. I just want to go back to the same...

Hey, Vin.

Hey, Dennis. Just wanted to go back to the same-store guidance here and just make sure I heard everything correctly. I think I heard 40 basis points of bad debt is included, one, is that correct? And then, I think the Sports Authority was 110 basis point drag in 2016, is that a similar drag in 2017 after you're factoring the commencement timing that you laid out earlier? And then – yeah, I'll start with that.

Hey, Vin. It's Geoff. How are you doing?

Hey. Hey, Geoff.

Yeah, it was 40 basis points of bad debt for the pool that we're using for 2017. So that's a little bit higher than what – how the pool performed last year, which was 30 basis points. So we're taking a little bit of a conservative view, but just so you have the color around the 40 bps.

And then Vin, just taking about the impact of Sports Authority. Now the impact for 2017 is more like 20 basis points to 30 basis points, still because of the lease up we're doing. But remember, we're still holding about the same amount of tenant failure reserve in 2017, as we saw in 2016, which we think is a high year of reserves. So if you – if we don't – if we have a normal year for that kind of tenant failures, we'll be more – we believe we will be at the top end of the range of our guidance for our same-store.

Okay. Just more clearer then, the tenant reserves you are talking about, is that 10 basis point increase in bad debt, I mean, that doesn't seem to be...

No.

...tremendously higher or is there something else?

No. it's also – we actually carry a reserve for not only bad debt, but also unexpected vacancy actually truly tenant failure. And that total reserve is what we think was – because of Sports Authority, it was $1.8 million high last year versus what we typically would have expected.

Got it, got it. As a percentage of your NOI that's – is that another 40 basis points, I don't have a model in front of me here to do the math?

It's – I mean, if you think about overall, it's like $3.8 million. So as a percentage it's definitely much more higher than the 40 bps.

Got it. Okay, that's fair. And then, I think also some of the moving parts here are sort of the asset sales, exactly what sells and when? But, just curious if there were no dispositions this year, how would that impact the same-store NOI outlook?

Well. Obviously, the same-store pool, our forecast is meant to contemplate the sales property. So, it depends on what the – if we didn't sell those assets, so again, they're slower growth. I don't – it's harder to tell – it's hard to tell. It's not something we have performed.

Got it. Okay. All right. Just one other question just different topic. The new lease spread in the quarter was quite high. I'm guessing that that's some of the TSA releases, is that correct? And, if you net that out, what did the new lease spread look like?

No. Actually the transactions we have, those four transactions aren't – it's actually the one, it's three small shops and one larger box. So, 19,000 square foot box, which is driving a lot of that. Again, we took an old Asian grocery store and are re-tenanting it and doubling the rent on that. So it required more TI typically, but we're certainly getting paid for it. I don't have a pro forma if we were to take that out, but obviously when you look – rather than looking quarter-to-quarter, when you look overall for the year, we're basically in line from a spread standpoint with higher quality leases, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks.

Okay. And just one last one from me, just on the Chicago acquisition. I thought I read there was a Barnes & Noble in there. I guess how are you thinking about that exposure? Is that part of the sort of the upside scenario, where you get that space back and can re-tenant it, or I guess how much term is left there and just maybe some thoughts there?

Very insightful. We have approximately a year, a year-and-a-half left on that lease with no options. And it is significantly below market rental rate. So, we see a very healthy upside in that space, as well as turning some of the other smaller spaces.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan. Please state your question.

Yeah, hi. I guess with respect to the acquisitions and possibly moving into new markets, can you talk a little bit about I guess, staffing and just kind of how the staffing works in terms of the ability to move into new markets or will you be adding folks in different regions to accommodate that?

Sure, Mike. And this is John. I'll take that. But, one nice thing about when you buy, like I we did at Providence, when you're buying a property of that size is that you can hire on – have on premises a personnel of a higher caliber and that actually ends up not, just being part of the property expense. So with that and plus the local leasing personnel that will have in Nashville that we'll hire a third-party, we believe that we have new market like that covered pretty well. It also – just to remind you that we split into the two regions that we had implemented in 2015 and I've already seen some good ability to focus on opportunities there. And having those two regions can be able to get a firsthand look at opportunities in the markets and really drive value there.

Okay. So it doesn't seem like you need to step-up substantially?

No, it's really just using onsite personnel.

Got it.

And remember, we are trading out any – we're trading – we're selling for assets too. So there's no new net increase at this point.

Got it. Okay. And then, I apologize if I missed this, but if you're thinking about the year-end consolidated occupancy and ignoring any impact from mixed changes, from buying and selling stuff, I mean, where do you see occupancy ending the year more on a same-store basis?

For total occupancy, about this – fairly consistent. I think, where we saw end of 2016, small shop – as I mentioned from a leased occupancy standpoint, we certainly hope to continuing to push occupancy there to get to more of a stabilized number.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Floris van Dijkum with Boenning & Scattergood. Please state your question.

Great. Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

A question on cap rates, first. We've heard a number of your peers talk about how they're starting to see cap rate expansion of 50 bps or in some cases higher in secondary or tertiary markets, are you seeing some of that and where are the cap rates on your disposal or properties that are in the market today relative to maybe where they were a year-ago, if you can comment on that?

Yeah. This is Cathy. So I think in general, we've seen that 50 basis points to 150 basis points spread between the A and B properties. A little bit less at grocery anchored centers, it's a little bit more on non-grocery power centers, deals with upside are definitely getting more traction. So, I think – I think you'll continue to see that and I think that it's reflected – our sales are reflective of that delta as well.

So that means you'd just call it 7%, 7.5% expected disposition cap rates sort of and you'll incorporate those cap rate increases?

Yes. I mean, if we're – yeah, so for instance our Q1 dispose will be in that range, high 7% range on cap rates.

Great, great. One other question and maybe this is for John as well. And I think somebody else touched upon it a little bit earlier, but it would really useful maybe to – if you gave the market a little bit better view of what Ramco will look like in three years time and in particular in terms of market achieving – trying to achieve critical math in certain markets. You just entered Nashville, so you have one asset there, you have now two assets in Minneapolis, you have one asset in Baltimore, three assets in Atlanta, but none of them are seem – for a lot of investors seem like that would provide you with critical mass or any sort of real market presence. How would you think about that and where would you ideally like to be in a couple of years time?

Right. So, it's hard to predict exactly where we'll end up being, but our view is, if you buy the right real estate with who are super regionally dominant real estate that – it's less important probably to have a – we'd rather have that and four or five smaller assets, because we believe that's the future of the business. But if we compare our asset like a Providence with a urban type location, like we just bought in Chicago or Minneapolis, we believe that's a nice mix. That has worked well for us with the Centennial acquisition, we're paired up now in Minneapolis with Woodbury. And so, I think that's kind of the program. I don't know, but it's hard to predict exactly where the opportunities will be. And to us, it's just about having the right real estate in the right submarkets in the – rather than more of a quantity of real estates.

Yeah. If I could just – Floris, if I could just add. John is spot on with our philosophy, which is if you accept as we do that – the retailing industry is transforming, so the shopping center industry also needs to transform and having bulk in a market does not necessarily mean that you're going to be successful. We will have boots on the ground, as John mentioned earlier, with the Providence acquisition. So it isn't like, we're going to have remote management for that asset.

And really, if – once you get to understand the Nashville market, we are indeed – especially on the East side of Nashville, we are the absolute dominant asset and we're drawing from far more than even 10 miles. So having the dominant asset, having the right tenant mix, bringing in place-making and our community first initiatives will ensure the success of that asset. And we are not going to try and bulk up just for a greater presence sake.

Thanks, Dennis.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] I am showing no further questions at this time. That does conclude our question-and-answer session. I will now turn it back to Mr. Dennis Gershenson for closing comments.

As always, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your interest and your attention. We've put a great deal of thought into the direction of our industry and we believe that with the acquisitions and dispositions that we are making, we are truly building in long-term sustainable growth starting in 2018. We will have completed for all intensive purposes our portfolio transformation as of the end of 2017, as we have with Nashville, more likely than not going into at least one new additional market. And I'd like to think that at this juncture we will be viewed as the absolute best of the small cap shopping center REITs with a tremendous runway for future growth. And we look forward to articulating those in the future. Thank you again.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time.