corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Jaime and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Ramco-Gershenson first quarter 2005 earnings


conference call. [Operator instructions].


Ms. Hendershot, you may begin your conference.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trusts


first quarter conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and


supplemental financial package, which are available on our website at www.rgpt.com.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time to time in the company’s filings with the SEC. Additionally, we want to let everyone know that


the information and statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners


to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the


statements made. Also, the contents of the call are the property of the company and any replay or


transmission of the call may be done only with the consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


Having said that, I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive


Officer, and Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer, and at this time I would like to turn the call over


to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Trustee


Thank you Dawn. Good morning. I would like to start by saying that I will not let new unfounded


claims by IRS agents who failed to prove their prior case against us obscure the momentum of our


first quarter. I will, however, address the IRS claims in my initial remarks. And we have both


corporate legal counsel and our tax accountants from Deloitte & Touche here with us, and


available, if there are any questions that we cannot answer.


First, I would like to cover some of the highlights from the first quarter. I’m pleased to report that


our diluted funds from operations was in line with First Call estimates at $0.60. This represents a 9


percent increase in both total dollars and FFO per share. Total revenues for the quarter were up


substantially primarily as a result of the number of acquisitions we made in 2004. Tenant


recoveries were also up. A portion of that number reflects the year-end reconciliation for 2004


charges. Although we do not expect to maintain recoveries above 100% for the year, we do


anticipate an increase above the 2004 year-end number based on our well-leased acquisitions and


our improving occupancy rate. Earnings per share were depressed because of the effect of the


additional preferred dividend paid as a result of our May 2004 Preferred Series C offering.


On the acquisition front, you will remember when we announced our joint venture with the Clarion


Lion Fund last December, we told you that we had under contract over $265 million in assets,
corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


which represented approximately 60% of the entire venture of $450 million. In the first quarter of


this year, we completed the purchase of the last 6 shopping centers: 4 in Florida on the Gold Coast


and 2 in several of the wealthiest suburbs of metropolitan Detroit. These purchases have added


over 1.5 million square feet to our portfolio. All 9 centers are located in densely populated trade


areas and are tenanted by many of the best-known and most credit-worthy national retailers. The


average center size for these acquisitions is 211,000 square feet. The demographics are superior,


with an average of over 106,000 people within either a 3 or 5 mile radius, depending on the type of


center, and average household incomes of approximately $71,000. We are especially pleased to


report that in an incredibly competitive acquisition environment, the average capitalization rate for


the 9 shopping centers approximates 7.6%. This advantageous cap rate for superior quality


centers ensures both increased shareholder value and reoccurring contributions to our annual FFO


growth. It is our intention to not only continue to purchase centers for our joint venture, but we plan


to acquire as well a number of assets on balance sheet to which we can add value. At this time, we


expect to add another substantial acquisition to our Lion Properties Fund venture before the end of


the second quarter, and we are planning to buy at least one center on balance sheet prior to the


end of the third quarter.


As to our development program, both our Michigan projects, Beacon Square in Grand Haven and


Gaines Marketplace in Grand Rapids, are nearing completion. These two centers, which total


approximately 450,000 square feet, are over 90% leased. We have initiated conversations with our


joint venture partners in order to arrive at a mutually agreeable price at which we can acquire their


interest. At our River City development in Jacksonville, Florida, we have commenced site work.


Our leasing efforts are bearing fruit and we will be announcing the signing of three more major


tenants for the project by the end of this month. We are still on schedule for an opening of the first


phase of the center in the spring of 2006. In April, we formed a joint venture for the River City


project structured similarly to our Beacon Square and Gaines Marketplace developments.


In asset management, our team has been busy completing a number of redevelopment projects


and achieving solid rental increases with both new tenants and lease renewals. Our Shoppes of


Lakeland redevelopment is nearing the 98% leased level. We will be announcing the signing of our


last mid-box anchor at this center before the end of May. Their occupancy in late fall will bring this


asset, which we took offline in 2002, to full capacity. The viability of the North Lakeland, Florida


trade area has been further validated by the opening of additional expanded discounters and home


improvement stores. We have also heard from additional mid-box retailers who, although late to


the dance, would like to be part of our project. Taylors Square in Greenville, South Carolina is


basically complete. The Super Wal-Mart is open and we have less than 4,000 square feet left to


lease in our ancillary retail space. In our redevelopment centers, as well as several centers with


vacancies, we will be announcing before the end of the second quarter no less than three new mid-


box retailers who will be added to our portfolio filling these vacancies.


In the first quarter, we have reported the opening of 18 new retailers at an average size of


approximately 2,100 square feet at an average rental rate of $17.58. The tenants are


approximately evenly spread throughout our Midwest and Southeast centers. New lease


generation continues to pick up and we expect to see healthy rental increases throughout the


balance of 2005. Lease renewals for the quarter, at 46, are relatively typical of this time of year as


many of our shopping center leases expire January 31. The significant number of lease expirations


in the quarter explains why occupancies, even with the new lease signings and lease rollovers, is


relatively flat as compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. However, first quarter 2005 shows


favorably against first quarter in 2004. You should begin to see occupancy increase in the second


quarter, and that number will accelerate based on the planned larger users I have just referenced.


Barring anything unforeseen, I expect our occupancy to approximate 95% by year-end. Our same-


center analysis shows over a five percent increase in net income. Because we will be bringing our


Lakeland Center and several other redevelopments to full occupancy in 2005, as well as filling a