Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vincent Chao — Senior Vice President-Finance, RPT Realty
Brian L. Harper — President, Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, RPT Realty
Michael P. Fitzmaurice — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, RPT Realty
Derek Johnston — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Linda Tsai — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Craig Schmidt — Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Wes Golladay — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Floris van Dijkum — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
Todd Michael Thomas — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the RPT Realty Second Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Vin Chao,. Thank you, Vin. You may begin.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us for RPT's second quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Additionally, statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, factors and risks could cause actual results to differ from expectations.

Certain of these factors are described as Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, and in our earnings release for the second quarter 2021. Certain of these statements made on today's call also involve non-GAAP financial measures. Listeners are directed to our second quarter press releases and our first quarter press release, which include definitions of those non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to the nearest GAAP measures and which are available on our website in the Investors section.

I would now like to turn the call over to President and CEO, Brian Harper; and CFO, Mike Fitzmaurice for their opening remarks, after which we will open the call for questions.

Thank you, Vin. Good morning and thank you for joining our second quarter 2021 conference call. I hope you and your families are all well. Although, the pandemic has created many challenges we are seeing a resurgence in open-air shopping center demand as retailers gain a better understanding of the importance of a robust omni-channel distribution platform that includes well-located bricks and mortar retail.

Similarly investors have taken notice, they've been allocating more capital towards open-air shopping centers. This is leading to compressing cap rates for certain retail segments in the private markets, unlocking M&A opportunities in the public markets and recently culminated in the shopping centers – sector's first IPO since 2013.

At RPT, we spent the last three years thinking strategically and outside the box to reinvent, advance and differentiate our company. This exercise led to the formation of our grocery-anchored R2G joint venture and our groundbreaking net lease platform, RGMZ. Together with our wholly-owned portfolio, we have created a powerful engine that will drive our business forward and unleash opportunities across multiple retail channels, which we expect will result in strong and sustainable growth.

Within our investment's platform, we have always used a rigorous underwriting methodology and acted with discipline and patience. Investments in our buybacks must be accretive to portfolio quality, earnings and the balance sheet and be in our strategic markets. With these must haves RPT transformed on a scale and at a speed that exceeded our own expectations and we are excited to share the considerable accomplishments of the reinvented RPT. During the depths of the pandemic in 2020, while we were working on our RGMZ, we were also cultivating a significant investment pipeline.

We took a thoughtful and analytical approach to curate our external growth in markets like Boston, Atlanta, Tampa and Nashville that are flourishing in today's modern landscape. Thankfully our timing worked out very well. While each of our acquisition markets has its own unique set of economic drivers, we believe they will all experience strong growth over the long-term, which should position the portfolio well in the coming years.

Boston for instance is seeing a wave of demand centered around the life-science industry and our centers have significant adjacency advantages with 186 life-science companies within a 10-mile radius of the four Boston properties that will soon be part of the portfolio. Once the remainder of our deals close and net of expected parcel sales, Boston will become our third largest market at just under 8% of ABR. This underscores our size advantage versus peers as we can quickly reshape our portfolio, which is particularly important in today's rapidly evolving landscape.

Let me give you a few highlights on our investments in Boston that will fit in nicely with our previously acquired Wegmans anchored, Northborough Crossing's property and collectively boasts a robust $148,000 household income within a three-mile radius. Bedford Marketplace in the Boston MSA is situated in a highly affluent suburb, right outside the [ph] $128,000 loop (00:05:45) with a three-mile average household income of $193,000. This is a center where Whole Foods is doing over a $1,000 per square foot and as a fresh newly renewed 15-year lease term.

Marshalls has been here since 1973, and it's also doing extremely well. Shoppes of Canton is the $133,000 household income within a three-mile radius. This is a top volume [ph] Shoppes (00:06:21) anchored-center with a small shop demand is robust. The expected NOI CAGR on this asset is about 4%.

Lastly, we are in negotiations on a true infill grocery-anchored center inside the [ph] $128,000 loop (00:06:42) with above average household incomes and popular – population densities versus our portfolio averages with the potential for future densification opportunities given its size and proximity to Boston. In total, since our last call, we closed or are under contract an eight multi-tenant deals and are in advance contract negotiations on a ninth asset with a gross value of $500 million covering 2.6 million square feet, which will increase our AUM by over 20%.

To put this in context, this level of activity equates to almost 50% of our equity market cap, which is quite remarkable. RPT's pro rata share of all this activity and after expected parcel sales are complete will be around $285 million. We were only able to execute at this scale because of the power of the platforms that we put together over the last 18 months.

As we discussed last quarter, Northborough is $104 million deal. We might not have pursued without RGMZ given a large ticket size. Our partnership with RGMZ also mean Northborough, a much more attractive use of capital given the yield enhancement that we expect to generate upon the sale of certain parcels to RGMZ. In the Southeast region, we acquired a $115 million four-property portfolio that was split between all three platforms RPT, R2G and RGMZ.

Let me give you a breakdown of this portfolio. Let's start with East Lake in Tampa. This is another grocery-anchored center that was added to the R2G portfolio. This center is anchored by a high volume Walmart neighborhood market and over 65% essential or investment grade tenancy. Newnan Pavilion, this is a community center in the Atlanta MSA with a strong lineup of Aldi, Home Depot and Ross. We are selling the Home Depot and Longhorn to RGMZ and RPT is left with an Aldi anchored-center at an 8.6% yield with almost 80% essential or investment grade tenancy.

On balance sheet, we bought Woodstock Square in suburban Atlanta. This center is shadow anchored by one of the highest volume super targets in the Atlanta, MSA. The center is in the heart of the rapidly growing Northwest quarter of Atlanta and is adjacent to a luxury rental community owned by Greystar. We see great mark-to-market opportunities on both the small shop and junior boxes at this center. Woodstock has also demonstrated great stability over the years and has retained its original anchor tenants since it was developed in 2001.

Another balance sheet deal is Bellevue Place in suburban Nashville. This center sits on incredible real estate, where we have conviction around a small redevelopment with a potential future grocer add. To put everything, we've done into context, R2G and RGMZ provided us with a lower cost of capital than we could have achieved even after the rally in our stock price since November. This lower cost of capital combined with the yield enhancements from fees and multi to single-tenant arbitrage opportunities led us to lock in higher economic spreads on our capital that we could have otherwise have achieved in the public markets, thereby accelerating our earnings growth and our portfolio transformation.

In summary, power of our platforms is allowing us to grow earnings and to advance our strategic objectives faster than we could do on our own. Given the level of acquisition activity, we put together in additional investor presentation that showcases our recent deals and provides insights into our market strategies, when time permits, please take a look.

On the operational front, our second quarter results reflected RPG's reshaped portfolio and platform. We continue to rebound from the COVID-induced downturn with another strong leasing quarter. We signed 58 leases covering 442,000 square feet in the second quarter which is 59% above the trailing 12-month quarterly average leasing volume we reported last quarter. Highlighting, the strong demand for our high quality open-air centers.

Demand has been particularly robust from the junior anchor category that's as high as I've ever seen in my career. Leasing highlights for the quarter was an REI deal at Town & Country in St. Louis that replaced the majority of a former Stein Mart space and a Lululemon deal. Both of these new tenants will significantly improve the vibrancy of the centers, making them more attractive for both customers and retailers alike while also improving the credit of the portfolio.

Reflective of the strength of the off price category, we signed two new Burlington deals this quarter. The first is at Winchester Center where we are replacing our last timer box. And the second is that Shoppes of Lakeland where we're replacing an office supply tenant. Our leasing pipeline is robust as we are in negotiations with several grocers and wholesale clubs and are eager to announce those. Underpinning all of the accomplishments of the quarter is our belief that value creation lies in our ability to improve the quality, sustainability and growth of our cash flows.

Our success in replacing weaker tenants with stronger ones and our increased exposure to Boston and Atlanta speak to the improved quality and sustainability of our cash flows. Our increased guidance in the 60% increase in our quarterly dividend reflects our accelerated growth trajectory.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike to discuss our financial and operational results and our updated guidance in more details. Mike?

Thanks, Brian, and good morning, everyone. Today, we'll discuss our second quarter results provide an update on our balance sheet and I will commentary on our improving guidance, expectations the second half of this year. Against the backdrop of an improving macro-environment, second quarter operating FFO per share of $0.22 was up $0.03 from last quarter driven by lower rent not probable of collection and abatements of $0.02 and the reversal of prior period straight line rent reserves of about $0.01 per share.

The largest driver of the decline in our bad debt was reduction in our reserves taken for our Regal Theaters. As expected they have been open for over two months and have resumed rent payments accordingly. For some context our rent not probable of collection including abatements fee $5.9 million in the second quarter 2020 and have fallen quickly to the $1.1 million reported this quarter. We are down to just a handful of tenants for which we are still reserving, expect our bad debt will continue to be a tailwind to year-over-year growth in the second half of the year, which is in line with the expectations that we set out at the beginning of 2021.

Our fundamentals remain strong. We continued experience accelerating leasing demand with 1 million square feet signed year-to-date, which is just below the $1.2 million we completed for the entire year in 2019. Our positive leasing momentum resulted in sequential increases for our leased and occupancy rates of 50 basis points and 40 basis points respectively. This is in line with our expectations that the trough and occupancy is behind us as we continue to drive our occupancy in our newly minted transformed portfolio. Blended releasing spreads and comparable leases signed in the quarter were 6.6% including another strong new lease spread of 17.8% reflecting once again the embedded mark-to-market opportunity in the portfolio.

Over the past four quarters our comparable new lease spread was 30%, our powerful operating platform continue to drive leasing velocity, improve occupancy and secure higher rents. Remerchandising projects remain our best risk adjusted use of capital and our pipeline of projects continue to grow. This quarter, we delivered three remerchandising and outlet projects to ground lease with Wendy's and Coral Creek Shops, the ground lease with Chase Bank at West Broward and the combination of boxes for Aveda and Merchant Square.

These projects were completed and the average return on capital is 17%. We also started our new REI remerchandising project at Town & Country and an expansion project for Burlington and the Shoppes of Lakeland where we expect returns of 9% to 13%. We had a five new pipeline projects this quarter in Northborough Crossing, Deerfield Towne Center, Southfield Plaza, River City Marketplace and Providence Marketplace [ph] highlighting the demand at our centers in future rent upside (00:16:45).

We ended the second quarter with net debt-to-annualized adjusted EBITDA 7.0 times down from 7.2 times last quarter. Leverage should fall towards our target range of 5.5 times to 6.5 times as our bad debt reserve normalizes to pre COVID levels and we re-stabilize occupancy. From a liquidity perspective, we ended the second quarter with a cash balance of $38 million and are fully-unused $350 million unsecured line of credit.

Subsequently at the end of the quarter, we drew down $135 million on the revolver to fund acquisitions which we expect will be repaid by the end of the year as we close on parcel sales to RGMZ that are expected to generate roughly $142 million in proceeds. During the quarter, we repaid our $37 million private placement notes with cash on hand. Looking ahead, we have no remaining debt maturing in 2021 and only $52 million maturing in 2022.

Our refinancing options are plentiful and we are exploring both secure and unsecured options. We will also continue to look beyond 2022 to refinance debt early to take advantage of a low interest rate environment while adding durations to our capital stack.

And lastly, turning to guidance we updated our operating FFO range to $0.88 to $0.92, which is up $0.05 or 6% from last quarter's guidance and above 10% for our initial 2021 guidance provided back in February. The primary driver of the upside is an increase in our acquisition forecasts. We've closed on our under contract for our advanced contract negotiation on $285 million of acquisitions and our share which is above $100 million of acquisition that was embedded in our prior guidance.

Also given the strength in our core business and our creative acquisitions, our Board of Trustees have increased the dividend by 60% to $0.12 per share quarterly. This rate allows us to maintain a low payout ratio, provide enough flexibility to continue to allocate capital accretively, but also leaving a room for additional dividend increases in the future as we grow earnings.

And with that I'll turn the call back to the operator to open the line for questions.

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from Derek Johnston with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, everyone. Good morning. So one thing that really stood out to us was the strongest leasing volumes and in really over five years and this is with a much smaller and refined portfolio. Can you talk about the shifting drivers or dynamics, really leading to such robust leasing. Any tenant categories, geography strengths or even new entrants in Newnan that stood out?

Yeah, Derek it's – as I've said repeatedly, it's as strong – as I've seen in my career particularly the junior boxes that really get – got out of the gate, the fastest in a post-pandemic world where it's been nice to see. The interesting thing about this quarter is the new deals were about 50% junior boxes and 50% small shop. That range from call it 35% of them were off price with a very good high percentage of medical as well, with a large percentage of fast casual and QSR. We mentioned the Lululemon deal. We mentioned that REI ideal.

And we even past this, we have a very good backlog of wholesale, home improvement grocers, which is getting huge yields and a lot of those are going into power centers that we'd like to say credit centers. So it is – the leasing team is firing on all cylinders, boots on the ground in these markets. And I think a lot of this too is helpful in 2018, we disposed of $200 million of assets in the secondary markets that at an average IRR of 3.5%. That was anchoring the portfolio down. That is gone. So we are mining the portfolio every inch and couldn't be prouder of our operations and team both leasing and development.

Thank you, Brian. And for the second question can you share what was so attractive about these six acquisitions you announced? I know you gave some details, but maybe a little more context? And really overall the ones that we're also vetting today and how do cap rates shake out especially for the portions destined for RPT's balance sheet versus the parcels that are earmarked for JV's?

Yeah. So Derek, it's the way we look at real estate obviously is IRR-driven first and foremost. And then it comes down to the real estate, the credit profiles of tenants, and math. So let's start with the math first. The total yield on the whole portfolio was a 7.5 cap. And the way I would look at that is would be the following; the properties blended to a mid-6. And the power the two platforms increased it by 100 basis points, that's obviously arbitrage and fees. This is our target range and our competitive advantage. It's a moat, if you will in this highly competitive market. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we obviously had a lot of good timing. And we started out on these assets in mid-2020, when we knew RGMZ was going to occur. We were highly focused on these selective MSAs, highly focused on them.

And we're negotiating at a time when others weren't underwriting deals. This early jump has allowed us to secure these assets. We believe that extremely attractive yields where they would be 75 basis points lower today. And a proven example of this is a deal recently traded in Provo, Utah, Walmart neighborhood anchored shopping center, similar cash flow, similar credit, similar wall, probably Utah is clearly not the number 18 Tampa MSA. That deal in Provo went for a sub-5 cap. So what I love about this specific asset it's 80% grocer. The grocers that report are averaging $700 a square foot.

This is a 5% CAGR – NOI CAGR 60% IG, $125,000 household income with a high amount of small shop. And it really all comes down to the execution of how we could get this at this yield, at this quality and accretive to our balance sheet is the power of the platforms. And this will be a unique weapon going forward in this highly competitive landscape while cap rates are compressing every day. And we are highly focused on our Tier-1 markets of Boston, Atlanta, Tampa, Orlando, Miami, Nashville and Austin. And really remain disciplined on future pipeline where it has to meet the three buckets of accretive and quality, accretive and earnings and accretive and balance sheet.

Thanks, Brian.

Thanks, Derek.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Linda Tsai with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, good morning. You still have a fair amount of capital to be deployed in RGMZ. How are you thinking about the pace of deployment for the remainder of the year? And then maybe just back to your earlier comments about how competition has increased a lot for the assets that you're looking at?

Yeah. Let me start with the bucket and Tyler Sorenson and his team on the triple max size is doing a phenomenal job and have a really high – really full pipeline, Linda. The way we're looking at this is three buckets; first would be the arbitrage like we did with Northborough or Newnan. Second would be built-to-suit opportunities. We are now providing another service to our retail partners where we can build them, we first fill the suits and obviously keep that spread on the yield as we dispose that to RGMZ. And then the third would be marketed and off market deals. So the team is very focused and we're seeing a lot of activity in that space. As a reminder it's only 6.5% of RPT. So it's very meaningless kind of number for end of the year for us.

And as to your second question as it relates to the competitive landscape, it's very competitive. And our head start on this $500 million of deals. We had timing, right. And we do have a nice pipeline behind that in these selective markets that with this platform that 7.5% yield is kind of our bogey. And we believe that this platform is really a moat that gives us a weapon and a differentiator that allows us to accretively deploy in an external world that's extremely competitive today.

And Linda, the only thing I would add to that is, this as a reminder as, we've talked in the past is we have three years to optimize this joint venture, which really allows us to be very, very, very disciplined and rigorous in our underwriting of these new investments, which is a great spot to be in.

Thanks. And just to follow-up for Mike to just you gave us some details on Regal, what was – what were the overall collections from theatres this quarter? And just remind us what it was in 1Q?

Yeah. In, in the first quarter, we collected zero percent from our theatres. We collected about half or so in the second quarter. Total collections for the second quarter, we touched about 95%, 3% was deferred [indiscernible] (00:28:01) about 98% and then 2% really represent our cash basis tenants that we reserve for. We continue to see for the remaining part of the year embedded within our guidance range is about a $1 million per quarter for the second half of the year, which is very consistent with what we reported in the second quarter this year.

Thanks.

You bet.

Thanks, Linda.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America. Please proceed with your questions.

Thank you. As you pointed out, you beat the second quarter by a $0.01 and then you raised guidance on the midpoint by $0.05. I wonder where this raised growth is coming from regarding, let's say your RPT platform versus your R2G and our RGMZ, I mean a rough breakout?

Yeah. A rough break out on the $285 million or so, Craig.

About a $123 million or so is going to come on our balance sheet, about $150 million or so is going to go on our R2G joint venture where we own 51.5%. And the last $5 million or so is going to come through RGMZ again where we own just 6.5%. That totals to about $285 million. And Brian noted that, that was redeployed at about a 7.5% cap rate and that gets you to $0.05 of swing that we had within our guidance this quarter. And the average acquisition date that would model, Craig, is probably going to be likely at the end of the third quarter or beginning of the fourth.

Great. And then maybe touching on some of the early conversation about the increased leasing volume, how much of this is just new leasing volume emerging versus maybe taking market share from either private or less dominant players. So sort of is the pie growing are you starting to get more of that pie?

It's both. I mean, we're getting a lot of new to market. We're getting a lot of relocations. We're getting a lot of mall tenants as the Lululemon's, and the Athleta's and Sephora's of the world are very active. So we're very disciplined on increasing market share at the assets where we can increase them. And that's looking at the competitive landscape, that's looking at where we can pick off tenants from competing centers that's either open-air or enclosed. So I was very, very pleased with the new to market and the relocations.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Craig.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Wes Golladay with Baird. Please proceed with your question.

Hey good morning guys. The question on the net lease versus shopping centers you do focus on IRRs. Can you tell us what do you think the differences between the two asset types today?

Yeah, I mean, obviously the triple nets, I mean both it's a very frothy. And when you look at the triple nets, it's compressed significantly. They got head start obviously on the shopping centers. We're seeing huge compression in the shop – shopping center landscape as well. But I think the interesting thing was especially on the nets is, it's a lot of these essential tenants that are really seeing the most compression from obviously your wholesale to home improvement to grocery and then even in the QSRs.

So it's a very, very liquid competitive market and then that's you just have a wider pool just based on the liquidity and the smaller check size of each of those deals as opposed to some of these centers and some of these centers we brought, Northborough, $104 million that buying pool is obviously not a lot, where the $2 million Chick-fil-A or the $3 million Chipotles that buying pool is quite wide. So it's certainly competitive on both sides, but obviously nets are trading much tighter than the shopping centers today.

Yeah. And then one thing I would add there for our net lease platform, just a reminder, Wes we talked about this in the past, we can lever up to 60%, 65% to improve that IRR, which is unique to this platform relative to the public pier. So, it'll give them a bit of an advantage there.

And I think to, Wes, is like why we're a differentiator for our investors, the arbitrage, I mean we are exceeding these assets at call it 50 basis points wider than the market. We are built-to-suit for tenants, maybe that's an 8% yield or maybe that's a 9% yield, contributing that for a 5% or 6%, right. And then looking at selectively maybe, it's shorter-term duration where we have just excellent relationships with the retailers, we could do a blend and extend in DD.

Where we can – Mike touched upon patience and over the three years, investors are patient. So we don't have to deploy. And we can creatively bring our IRR where I think a lot of the public mix can't.

Yeah makes sense. And then can we go to the leasing. The TIs were elevated again. You last quarter you did the strategic leasing and I imagine that's going on now. I guess when we look to the next 12 months how much strategic leasing is left in the portfolio?

Yeah. So I mean this really came down to – this was a strategic deal. This was the REI deal at Town & Country. It was a vacant Stein Mart box. We had four tenants interested in this. Three would have taken the box as is REI and multitude of other tenants had interest in the box. So we decided to divide it. So that's some of that cost right there. So if you combine REI with a new other tenant which we'll announce soon, it's about a 15% yield. So we like that a lot and we chose REI for the co-tenancy with Whole Foods, the niche it feels in the markets, the greater market share we're going to have and we just think that's a win-win.

Winchester where we had the other Stein Mart box, it was just really – we've put Burlington in and didn't divide it. So it's going to be the pipeline and our supplemental shadow pipeline has increased tremendously. And we really see great yields on those. So that has been hand-picked. That has been hand-curated. And that has a lot of the wholesale clubs, that has a lot of the grocers, that's a lot of the home improvements, that's a lot of new pads from Chick-fil-A and Chipotles and all that. That's what you're seeing there. And the yields are strong. I think it's an asset-by-asset selection where Winchester we decided to tick the box and just Burlington basically took it as is. Whereas in Town & Country, we decided to chop it up just given the small shop demand and REI.

Yeah. For this year, Wes we're spending about $20 million or so on these discretionary type remerchandising projects. And if we – based on the visibility that I have today and with enough cash flows and our business plans, we'll probably spend about $10 million or $20 million per year on these opportunities to improve the tenancy and then the dynamic nature of our remerchandising mix as to – at our centers. And I think the cost is justified by these great national high credit, high investment grade tenants like, Brian mentioned between REI and the strong grocers that we hope to announce soon.

Got it. And then going to the private market, I guess is that bid starting to widen? Is it more – if you were to sell your like maybe the bottom 10% of your portfolio is that bid starting to firm up? And can use that as a source of capital for future investments?

Yeah, I mean, it's again – I think we're seeing it frothy at all sectors. I mean the debt markets are open and very frothy and thankfully as I said earlier in the call, we sold our bottom tier. We're not actively or match funding out of certain non-strategic markets will be just that match funding. We're not going to be diluting the company, but to sell into the froth are we looking at certain strategic markets? Sure. That we can match fund into others and into these type of strategic markets? Absolutely. And we are seeing very, very good demand.

Got it. Thanks for taking the questions, guys.

Yeah.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Mike Mueller with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah, hi. So couple of questions I guess first. What's an example of a center where you're comfortable carving out parcels for the net lease venture compared to one where you wouldn't? Or does it not matter because you have an interest in both?

And the second question is in terms about the net lease venture. Where do you see kind of the average cap rate levels that entity you'll be paying for to carve out prices in today's market?

Yeah. So let me take your first question. It's – it comes down to the real estate. It comes down to co-tenancy clauses. It comes down to where the pads are located in the centers. It comes down to, does that real estate have future densification options. And it obviously comes down to the tenants and the credit. So we are very, very disciplined on looking at going through a rigorous process of what is true trip on that? What could be parceled off? How hard is it to parcel off in the jurisdiction. In many cases some are already parceled off. Then we look at co-tenancy. We look at use, right.

And I think like what Newnan provided is it was a Home Depot in the back of the center, a lot of centers in the country right now are already shadow-anchored to Home Depot. So Longhorn out in front. There were a number of pads along that area that were already shadow-anchored and we decided to part with that. I think the others that we wouldn't would be more of the densification future opportunities. I would look at the new Boston assets just like that, right where we have potential great future [ph] air REITs (00:39:39).

And already have had a major inbounds from some of the leading residential REITs on interest of if we would look at something like that or the Tampa assets, which I think one particularly in St. Pete, South Pasadena's REIT on the water and just has incredible demand. So, we look at all of that and then make a determination. I would say that cap rates run from 5s to 6s, right. And it just depends what, it depends on duration and term and basically that's it. So, 5s to 6s.

Got it. That was it. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Floris van Dijkum with Compass Point. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Floris.

So I just want – I mean obviously very active on the acquisitions fronts increasing your exposure to these key markets. Could you tell us what percentage of the portfolio is currently in your target markets? And where do you want to get to and also in particular referring to that I think it's 27% of your current portfolio still is in Detroit and in Cincinnati?

Yeah. We don't have a – we don't play the math game of it has to be X percentage of X, Y and Z in Austin or Nashville or Boston or Tampa, Orlando or Miami. We obviously have a large exposure in Florida already. We will be getting larger in Boston. We will be getting larger in Nashville. And it comes down to IRR and it comes down to real estate, it comes down to sales performance. So I think people get caught where they have a number that they have to hit, certain percentages of groceries, certain percentage of market share and X, Y or Z. We want quality real estate in all these markets.

Detroit dropped to 15%. I can see that dropping much further in the near-term just based on froth of the market and matched funding. As I've said from day one that's institutional quality real estate where we're doing a number of key grocery deals. So I want to harvest a lot of that out first and then go from there. So we don't have goalpost of 20% Boston, 20% Atlanta, 20% Miami it comes down to the real estate and we're patient. So we'll hold out for the right deals.

Thanks, Brian. And maybe the one another question is you talk about the 6.5% cap rate on these transactions you've just announced. Obviously that goes to you boost that by through the JVs. Your returns are significantly higher. You also talked about the 5% CAGR on them.

If you could explain that a little bit more because 5% same-store NOI CAGR on those acquisitions seems really high particularly I think the Southeast portfolio was 94% leased where is the upside, is this in rents or there is no information on occupancy?

Yeah, so there is a 90% – there's a few centers that are lifting that CAGR up. Shoppes of Canton has a lot of small shops like 70% small shop. And we have some vacancies there and already are working on negotiating deals. So that's a massive CAGR. The mark-to-market on some of those renewals as I said the Woodstock was it's a lot of their original deals that were in the 2000 – since 2001 original anchors. So some people are up for renewals and there are some vacancies. And then Newnan has a number of potential for mark-to-market as well. And then Northborough is like an 8% CAGR just because of two new and potentially three new TJX concepts coming online. So really skewed higher with three or four of those centers.

Thanks. And then my last question, I guess is maybe if you could put in – I mean I've done the math your – the little presentation you sent out which I thought was quite slick. You talked about $4.9 million of potential ABR upside getting back to 2019 level occupancies, which I think works out to around additional 3% of NOI somewhere in that range. Obviously bigger impact on FFO because of leverage maybe if you can talk a little bit about when you think you see the company getting back to 2019 levels of occupancy going forward?

Yeah. No. I think it's, if you look at our occupancy today for us. We ended the quarter at around 91%. We're up 40 basis points. We do think the trough is behind us as we've mentioned over the last couple of quarters, one, the year right around 91.5% which puts us just about where we ended 2020 at. As we move forward, we do think the portfolio re-stabilizes in late 2022, possibly early first half of 2023, right back at that 93% level that we were at pre-COVID. And we absolutely think that this portfolio is a 95% quality portfolio. We're well on our way there prior to the pandemic. So, we think there is even additional upside beyond early 2023 with occupancy.

Thanks, Mike. Appreciate it.

You bet.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Brian, first question, the mall-based tenant demand that you mentioned, Lulu and others that are signing leases. Are you seeing greater interest from them to expand outside of, I guess some of the larger format lifestyle and sort of community centers where they've historically had interest? Or are they expanding the types of space and types of centers that they'll entertain? Just curious if you have any thoughts and maybe any examples of that to demonstrate some of the demand that you're seeing from some of the more traditionally mall-based retailers?

It runs the gamut. I mean you have Claire's now right out with a whole open to buy outside the mall. They're negotiating a deal up in Northborough, that's a Wegmans and several TJX and ULTA, Sephora in several areas. I mean, Todd it's almost everybody has an off-mall program now. Lulu and Anthropology kind of led that many years ago and those two are very robust, Sephora then followed through. Foot Locker is very active in their off-mall strategy. I can't think of one that doesn't have an off-mall strategy or at least not trying it. So, I think with the exception of call it obviously the luxury tenants' switchable stay in high street or luxury malls. There is every single one of those tenants has at least engaged in conversation and said, hey, I have an off-mall platform.

Okay. And as you sign leases with these retailers obviously their occupancy costs in sort of the open-air arena, lower than they generally would be in sort of the mall-based – in sort of the malls. What are you achieving sort of premium brands, premium economics from those retailers? Or are they generally consistent with market?

No. You're getting premium. I mean you're absolutely getting premium. I say you're getting premium at most centers. It's – we obviously know occupancy cost and can calculate that. And that goes into our negotiations with them. Are they getting a reduction? And could they do equal or greater sales and being an open-air and have a greater – four-wall EBITDA with a lower rent? Absolutely. So we are – they're accretive in every single one of our deals from ABR at the shopping center level.

It is typically in the mall equity costs between 13% and 15% and with open-air given the much lower common area costs, you're looking at 7% or 9%. So to back up Brian's point, there is absolutely a premium to be paid here in open-air.

Okay. That's helpful. And then Mike, so leverage it's inevitably going to bounce around a little bit while with all this investment activity, you're sort of warehousing certain assets before contributing them to the fund or some parcels to the funds. And it seems like you're in that position today a little bit with some with expected proceeds from parcel sales to come. You mentioned the 5.5 times to 6 times the leverage target. How long until you're sort of within range? And where do you expect to be at year-end? I guess pro forma this sort of $500 million of transactions and – and all the activity being completed?

Yeah. Look I mean, we're, as you know Todd. We're very focused on leverage and getting it back within our ranges with 5.5 times to 6.5 times. Our recent investment grade rating is very indicative of our philosophy to be low-levered. And look we have three strategies to get there. One is growth through EBITDA and we're well on our way there in our rents. This quarter, we're only 3% off our pre-COVID levels.

Secondly, as Brian mentioned earlier in the Q&A here we will opportunistically sell nine-core assets or see more of our existing portfolio to RGMZ and pay down, it could be high coupon debt. We have an opportunity with our mortgage that comes due early next year or like Brian said, we deploy accretively into acquisitions.

And then the third thing which I think is the most powerful option here and area that we have is to continue to optimize the power of the platforms. With the right mix of debt and equity, we can absolutely accretively grow earnings and lower leverage at the same time. We have a whole lot of options when you can invest in yields at 7.5%. So we're – where we are very focused on getting it down as quickly as we possibly can by the end of the year, we'll be a little bit north of 7%, absent – all else equal absent any these other strategies that I mentioned being employed.

Okay so a little bit north of where you sit today just given all this activity and then ...

Yeah.

Should get it down.

Yeah, all else equal.

Okay. And then, you have two more questions I guess on the model, so you mentioned the mortgage I think that's Bridgewater Falls, right so $52 million, 5.7%. What's the plan there as we turn the corner into 2022?

Yeah, I think we're looking at many options. One is the unsecured market with private placement rates are between 3%, 3.5% on that front. We're also looking at the secured market possibly to put some leverage on our assets with R2G joint venture modest leverage. But again those rates are sub-3% and then like I said, it could be an opportunity to sell non-core assets. So we're looking at all three right now. We'll have more color on what we pick likely in the third quarter call.

Okay and just lastly then with the activity that's completed or expect to be completed by year-end. Can you comment on where recurring fee income, how – and I guess how it's trending from here? But where it might be at the end of the year on sort of an annualized basis as we think about 2022?

Yeah. I think if we get to the end of the fourth quarter, I think it's right about, about a $0.05 about $400,000.

And that's from R2G and RGMZ combined?

That's correct. Yeah, that's correct. And then there'll be a bit north of that if you include the preferred position we take in RGMZ like right now we're forecasting about $200,000 in the fourth quarter for that. But that's going to be a bit more volatile.

All right, great. All right. Thank you very much.

You bet. Thanks, Todd.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to Brian Harper for any closing comments.

Thank you. Our results for the second quarter and so far the third quarter have clearly demonstrated our ability to create value for shareholders both organically and through acquisitions. Not only are we rapidly increasing our cash flow, but we are also enhancing the sustainability of our cash flow by improving tenant credit, our market mix, the quality of our properties. And our continued focus on a fluent first ring, infill suburbs. We also remain focused on advancing our ESG initiatives in order to further strengthen our business. With the company sized appropriately and repositioned for success in a rapidly evolving retail environment, we are confident in RPT's future.

Thank you all for joining our call this morning. Have a wonderful day.

This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.