corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust Fourth Quarter 2008


Year-End Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-


and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations.


Thank you. Ms. Hendershot, you may now begin.


Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Good morning, and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust fourth quarter


year-end conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and


supplemental financial package, which are available on our website at rgpt.com.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it could give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks


that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time-to-time in the company’s filings with the SEC.


Additionally, we want to let everyone know that the information and statements made during the call


are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of


time, by itself, will diminish the quality of the statements made.


Also, the contents of the call are the property of the company, and any replay or transmission of the


call may be done only with the consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer; Richard


Smith, Chief Financial Officer; Thomas Litzler, Executive Vice President of Development; and


Michael Sullivan, Senior Vice President of Asset Management.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dawn. Good morning, and welcome. No matter what amplifying adjectives you choose


to describe the state of our economy and its various sectors, 2008 was a very difficult year.


Further, no one is terribly sanguine about the prospects for a recovery in 2009.


With that in mind, I believe that this morning we are most interested in having us address two


topics. First, what is our plan to remain a successful public REIT in these challenging times and


what are our catalysts for growth once the skies begin to clear? Although it’s been many years


since our industry experienced such a continuance of negative circumstances, those of us who’ve


been in the shopping center business for a long time are no strangers to an environment where the


consumers are hesitant to spend, significant retailers are going out of business or postponing their


expansion plans, and the credit markets are stubbornly uncooperative. Now, as then, the key to


surviving these problems and ultimately growing one’s business in the future is the ownership of a
corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


portfolio of shopping centers that’s well located, well tenanted, and the destination of choice for the


consumer.


Ramco-Gershenson’s portfolio shopping centers meets these criteria. Our centers are


predominantly located in metropolitan areas with significant barriers to entry. Our properties’


demographic profile includes large trade areas with population bases averaging over 190,000


persons with average household incomes of $77,000, well above the national average. In addition


to these solid trade area statistics, our shopping center characteristics promote stability in these


troubled times. Our centers are anchored by the dominant supermarkets in the area, the most


successful discount department stores and the most recognized national destination-oriented


popularly priced mid-box retailers. Our average shopping center is 225,000 square feet, well above


the average size of our peers. And the Ramco portfolio boasts an average of over two anchors per


center insulating our properties from the catastrophic results of losing a landlord’s one and only


anchor, especially if that draw is a supermarket. Thus, the location, as well as the destination-


oriented everyday goods and service tenant mix of our shopping centers positions our properties to


weather this economic storm. An additional indicator of the strength of our shopping center portfolio


is the number of anchor tenants who are either expanding their existing stores or joining our tenant


lineup.


At the beginning of 2008, we commenced major value-add redevelopments at 13 of our shopping


centers. As of today, four have been completed and nine are still underway. The anchors who will


be added or expanded as part of these projects will come on-line over the next 18 months. Even


with a portfolio of dominant shopping centers, we are not immune to the closing of retailers such as


Linens ‘n Things and Circuit City. However, in addition to the one Michigan Linens ‘n Things


location, which we have already re-leased and opened as a 34,800 square foot Golfsmith store, we


are currently negotiating letters of understanding with replacement tenants at almost every center


where a vacancy has occurred. At a number of our locations, we’re discussing terms with two or


three national retail anchors for the same vacant space.


Further, our 2008 leasing statistics show steady positive momentum both in tenant renewals where


we extended over 70% of our lease expirations and average rental increase of 11.6%, and with


new tenancies, we opened 25 new stores in the fourth quarter alone at a rental rate 4.4% above


our portfolio average. Our supplement counts only those retailers who opened during last year. As


telling an indicator of our leasing progress is the number of new leases we signed in the fourth


quarter of 2008 and the first two months of 2009. In Q4 of last year, we signed 20 new leases


compared to 23 in the last quarter of 2007. And in the first 45 days of 2009, we have signed 16 new


lease agreements with an additional 21 leases out and under final negotiation. Mr. Michael Sullivan,


our Senior Vice President of Asset Management, will expand on these statistics and provide some


color on our plans for the year and the leasing environment for 2009. He will also provide insight


into how our Michigan and Florida assets are performing.


2008 occupancy for our wholly-owned and joint venture properties, excluding centers in


redevelopment, was 93.7% at year-end. Occupancy for the entire portfolio, including planned


vacancies we created to facilitate the outstanding nine major redevelopments, stood at 91.3% at


year-end. This number includes the impact of all but one Linens ‘n Things vacancy, but does


include any of the Circuit City closures. The major impact to our 2009 occupancy number will be the


one additional Linens store, all four of the Circuit City locations plus the Wal-Mart at our Ridgeview


center where we took an impairment charge. These vacancies will be offset in part by those anchor


tenancies that will come on-line this year as part of our redevelopments. That said, we’re projecting


occupancy in 2009 at between 50 and 100 basis points below the 2008 level. Understand however,


that to be conservative, we have not included in our 2009 occupancy projection any re-tenanting of


the six remaining Linens stores or the four Circuit City locations even though we’re making


substantial progress on letters of intent for many of these vacancies. Based upon the schedule of