raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson First Quarter


Conference Call. My name is Maria and I will be your audio coordinator for today. [Operator


Instructions] At this time I will now turn the presentation over to Ms. Dawn Hendershot. Please


proceed ma’am.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust First Quarter


Conference Call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and supplemental


financial package which are available on our website at rgpg.com.


At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumption, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from time to


time in the company’s filings with the SEC.


Additionally we want to let everyone know that the information and statements made during the call


are made as the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of


time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Also the contents of the call are the


property of the company and any replay or transmission of the call may be done only with the


consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust. Having said that I would now like to introduce


Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer and Richard Smith, Chief Financial


Officer and at this time I’d like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Dawn. Good morning and welcome. It goes without saying that we’re pleased to have


exceeded first call estimates for the quarter. More importantly however, we’re excited about our


plans for the year and our prospects for the future. In our first quarter we made significant progress


in all 3 of our profit centers. We acquired 3 shopping centers, 2 for our ING venture, Cocoa


Commons in Cocoa, Florida. Which is located in close proximity to Cape Canaveral. And Cyprus


Point, a great center located on busy Highway 19 North in Clearwater, Florida.


Our other acquisition Peachtree Hill in Duluth, Georgia, a suburb of Atlanta was purchased for our


new Heightman [ph] joint venture. These 3 acquisitions are evidence that we are comfortably able


to source product for both of our off balance sheet partnerships. Each of these purchases provides


it’s own unique opportunity for us to add substantial value to the centers thus increasing the return


on investment well above the cap rates at which these assets were acquired.


Our development team has been hard at work moving 2 new shopping center projects through the


entitlement process. Although it is our policy not to identify a specific new center development until


we close on the land, we wanted to give you a sense of our progress on these new, 2 new


opportunities. One center will be 565,000 square feet and includes 2 major anchors. The second


center encompasses over 600,000 square feet. This development will combine power center


elements with a mixed-use town center concept, which will be anchored by national, major tenants,


entertainment and mid-box retailers. Our group of professionals is also working on the most
raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


aggressive value-added redevelopment we have undertaken to date. This project located in our


mid-Atlantic region, will incorporate retail, entertainment, office and residential elements in a town


center setting. The two centers as well as the major redevelopment are supported by strong tenant


interest and solid demographics. In addition to these 3 significant undertakings, we are presently


pursuing 6 value-added redevelopments in our core portfolio and joint venture partnerships. We


also will be announcing additional value-added projects in the second the third quarters. As has


been our history, we have consistently achieved superior returns of between 11 and 15% on


average on new dollars invested for our value-added redevelopments.


Our Asset Management group has also been busy during the quarter. We extended 43 leases at


expiration. 40 of these were non-anchor retailers. Our average increase over prior rental rates was


approximately 10%. We also opened 27 new non-anchor tenants at an average rental rate of


$19.92, a 29% increase over our portfolio average. Further we are pleased to report that our same


center NOI growth this quarter was a healthy 4.3%. The substantial increase over portfolios


averages for new leases, our double-digit increase for lease renewals, the growth in same center


NOI and our ongoing program of adding value to our shopping centers creates a potent


combination for continued growth from core assets.


Over the last several quarters, I shared with many of you information, which compared Florida and


Michigan statistics, including trade area population and income as well as occupancy rates, center


size and anchors per center. Lately I have been asked about the impact of the Michigan economy


on our rental rates and how these numbers compare to Florida. For the first quarter of 2007, as


one would expect of Florida, new leases signed for vacant space averaged 36.4% above portfolio


average and for lease renewals at expiration we achieved an average increase of 19.7%. For


those of you who have a jaundiced view of Michigan and discount it as a viable retail market, I am


pleased to report that for the first 3 months of 2007, new leases signed for vacant space in


Michigan produced a 15.3% increase above portfolio average and for leases renewed at expiration,


we achieved a 12.5% increase.


Other events of note since the beginning of the year include the lease up of our Jacksonville


development to over 96%. This 900,000 square foot center has only 34,000 square feet of


uncommitted small tenant space left. The River City market place was our most ambitious


undertaking since the company went public in 1996. Yet we have accomplished a remarkably fast


lease of end occupancy of this center. This rapid and successful completion of River City has


allowed us to close a $110 million loan on the project at an interest rate of 5.4% for 10 years.


Subsequent to the end of the quarter, we negotiated to purchase and have acquired our joint


venture partner’s interest in the shopping center.


We also announced, following quarter end that we would redeem on June the 1st all of the


outstanding series-C convertible preferred shares. As of April 20th over 1,200,000 shares of the


1,888,000 series-C shares have been converted. This will leave only our series-B perpetual


preferred shares outstanding. Which if we choose can be redeemed in November of this year. The


yield on these shares is 9.5%. Over the last several months Rich Smith and I have met with a


significant number of existing share holders and perspective investors who the good offices of


those analysts who cover our company.


In addition to updating the investors on our recent accomplishments, we also learned a great deal


from their feedback. Most importantly, everyone wanted to understand what we perceived would


be the catalyst for future growth. Let me say first that I trust our actions in this last quarter have set


the stage for solid results for the balance of 2007. Further we are well on our way to an expanded


pipeline of new development projects. We will be further ramping up our acquisition program as the


year progresses as we are seeing a substantial number of shopping centers for sale that we


perceive as value-added opportunities. To that end, we have direction from our joint venture