corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust First Quarter 2009


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-


and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations for


Ramco-Gershenson. Thank you, Ms. Hendershot. You may begin.


Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust first quarter


2009 conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received our press release and supplemental


financial package which are available on our website at rgpt.com.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time-to-time in the company’s filings with the SEC.


Additionally, we want to let everyone know that the information and statements made during the call


are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of


time, by itself, will diminish the quality of the statements made. Also, the contents of the call are the


property of the company, and any replay or transmission of the call may be done only with the


consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


I would now like to introduce the participants for today’s call. Here with us today are Dennis


Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer; Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer; Thomas


Litzler, Executive Vice President of Development; and Michael Sullivan, Senior Vice President of


Asset Management.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dawn. Good morning and welcome. There are two subjects I would like to cover over


the next 10 minutes or so; first, our successes in asset management over the last 90 days; and


second, our plan and progress on improving the balance sheet.


I’m pleased to report that we exceeded First Call estimates for the quarter, achieving $0.56 per


share. Even more important than this number, however, are the results of our asset management


team’s efforts in maintaining our occupancy ratio, their achievements in retaining existing retailers,


who are renewing their leases at expiration, their progress in securing the execution of new tenant


leases during these challenging times, and their stewardship of our other operating metrics.


Our performance in these four areas has been quite strong, notwithstanding current market


conditions.
corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our asset management goal for the quarter and the year are primarily to maintain an occupancy


ratio above 90%, renew over 75% of expiring leases, aggressively fill existing vacancies, both large


and small, with retailers that complement our tenant mix, control and reduce center operating costs,


which directly benefit our tenants, and advance our planned redevelopments which will have a


dramatic and positive impact on our net operating income over the next 18 months.


You will note from our supplement that our portfolio-wide occupancy rate stands at 90.9% as of


March 31. Although we feel that even more significant statistic is a same center comparison, those


analysts who cover Ramco have focused on the portfolio-wide number, which include centers


currently under redevelopment and, therefore, are in various stages of completion.


Using this portfolio-wide metric, our first quarter occupancy number remains relatively consistent


with the 2008 year-end figure of 91.3%. It is important to note that our March 31 occupancy rate


includes the impact of all of the Linens ‘n Things and Circuit City vacancies.


On the leasing front, we are making significant progress. At quarter-end, we have renewed or have


amendments out for 75% of our lease expirations, achieving an increase at quarter end of 6.4%


over prior rentals paid.


Further, although we show only 19 new tenant openings during Q1, we have signed 26 new leases


in the first quarter. This compares favorably to 24 signed leases in the same period in 2008 and 25


lease agreements for the first quarter of 2007. Clearly, our leasing velocity is exceeding similar


periods for the last two years.


Also, as of quarter-end, we have an additional 37 leases out and under negotiation. Rental spreads


for the 19 new non-anchor tenant occupancies shown on our supplement are down just over 12%


compared to our non-anchor tenant portfolio average.


Included in that number are three larger format stores in approximately 8,000 square feet each.


Since larger format retailers typically pay less rent than smaller shop spaces, we had a


disproportionate drag on our leasing statistics.


Excluding those three tenants, we would have recognized a 9.6% increase over non-anchor


portfolio average rents. If we compare the total 26 new leases singed in the first quarter to the


overall portfolio average, these newly singed tenants will be paying an average rental rate of 49.2%


above the portfolio average number.


During our last call I indicated that our asset management team was committed to reducing


shopping center variable costs including common area maintenance and real estate taxes, which


are passed through to our tenants.


As a result of their efforts, we have reduced our common area maintenance expenses by


approximately $200,000 in the first quarter as compared to the budged number for that period.


These numbers demonstrate that we are on track to reduce our center’s operating costs, by


approximately $1 million for the year, a significant savings for our tenants.


We are also pleased to report that our same center net operating income remained positive in the


first quarter, increasing just under 1%. Lastly, we continue to make substantial progress on the


pace of our redevelopments. We have completed the re-tenanting and have opened a 51,000


square foot Hobby Lobby in our Clinton Valley shopping in Sterling Heights, Michigan. We have


opened a new Staples office supply store in 20,000 square feet in our Market Plaza in Glen Ellyn,


Illinois.