corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust Second Quarter


2009 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-


answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations.


Thank you Ms. Hendershot. You may begin.


Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Good morning, and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust second


quarter 2009 conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received our press release and


supplemental financial package, which are available on our website at rgpt.com.


At this time management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time-to-time in the company’s filings with the SEC.


Additionally, we want to let everyone know that the information and statements made during the call


are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of


time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Also the contents of the call are the


property of the company and any replay or transmission of the call may be done only with the


consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer;


and Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer; both of whom will be presenting prepared remarks this


morning. Also with us are Thomas Litzler, Executive Vice President of Development; Michael


Sullivan, Senior Vice President of Asset Management and Catherine Clark, Senior Vice President


of Acquisitions.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis Gershenson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dawn, and good morning. Today we’d like to share with you the highlights from our


second quarter and the first six months of 2009. My comments will address our leasing


achievements, our core portfolio performance, an update on our balance sheet and liquidity, the


strategic review process, and guidance for the year.


We’re very pleased with our performance for this quarter, in light of both the current economic


difficulties facing our industry and the distress the American homeowner, worker, and consumer are


experiencing. Together these issues have had a profound effect on the retail community, including


both the public and private shopping center owners.
corrected transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In the second quarter, Ramco-Gershenson faced a number of challenges, including confronting and


resolving a proxy contest. We expanded our Board of Trustees by two members, adding Matthew


Ostrower and David Nettina, who have attended several Board meetings to date and are already


making a positive and constructive contribution.


The cost of the proxy contest, coupled with the third-party expenses associated with our strategic


alternative study, resulted in an extraordinary charge of $0.04 per share. Excluding these


extraordinary items, our FFO for the second quarter would have been $0.56 per diluted share,


exceeding First Call estimates.


One of the most significant challenges to be met by our management team in 2009 is replacing


vacancies in our tenant roster created by the bankruptcies of Linens ‘n Things and Circuit City, as


well as a number of other mid-box locations. Our leasing progress since the start of 2009 has been


substantial. We have executed leases with or opened seven anchor stores accounting for


approximately 200,000 square feet. And we have signed leases with more small-format retailers’


year-to-date than in the same period in 2008 and 2007.


Balancing the increase in leasing velocity is the reality that the newly signed mid-box retailers will


not be paying rental rates comparable to the tenancies they are replacing, due to a number of


factors, including the significant availability of large format spaces; the type of goods sold by the


replacement tenants; and expectations for a slower pace of consumer spending.


Because Ramco-Gershenson is having success signing leases with national, regional, and local


retail tenants, we are not supplementing our leasing program with creative alternative uses. Our


experience this year-to-date includes an increase in interest from local tenants with strong


customer loyalties who are relocating to our centers to take advantage of the vacancies created in


stronger shopping centers.


We feel that our leasing success is due to the fact that our shopping centers are best-in-class; that


they are tenanted with the right mix of retailers; are located at the most heavily trafficed


intersections in their trade areas; and provide the most desirable shopping experience for the


customer.


We have also had success in the first six months of 2009 retenanting The Linens space in our Troy,


Michigan center with the opening of Golfsmith, and the signing of two new leases with Ross Dress


For Less for shopping centers in Florida, one to replace a vacant Linens at our Plaza at Delray


shopping center, in Delray Beach, Florida.


As I have mentioned in past calls, there are several sets of leasing statistics which determine the


direction and success of our leasing efforts. The first two sets of numbers are presented in our


supplement and include both new retailers who have taken occupancy of their premises in the first


and second quarters of the year, and those tenants we have retained at the expiration of their


leases. An equally important statistic and one which we track internally is for leases actually being


signed during these periods with tenants who will open later in 2009 or in the case of anchor


tenants, possibly in 2010.


Concerning those new tenants who opened in the second quarter of 2009, one of the 13 smaller


format retailers exceeded 10,000 square feet in size, and is paying a single digit rent. Excluding this


one retailer, our rental average for the remaining 12 new tenancies would have been $18.95,


comfortably above our non-anchor tenant average.


Please note as well that of the 67 leases that expired during the second quarter, we retained over


83% and year-to-date over 77%, which exceeds our historical average of 73 to 75%. This emphasis


on tenant retention pays dividends as we avoid downtime, legal costs, and capital expenditures, if