Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Dawn L. Hendershot — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Dennis Earl Gershenson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Michael J. Sullivan — Senior Vice President-Asset Management, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Gregory R. Andrews — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Todd M. Thomas — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Vin Chao — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Nathan Isbee — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Benjamin Yang — Analyst, Evercore Partners
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
RJ Milligan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Dawn Hendershot, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you. Ma'am, you may now begin.

Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call. Joining me today are Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer; Gregory Andrews, Chief Financial Officer; and Michael Sullivan, Senior Vice President of Asset Management.

At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additionally, statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the quarterly press release.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.

Thank you, Dawn. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm pleased to report another successful quarter for Ramco-Gershenson, wherein we achieved very positive operating and financial results. Our ability to consistently improve the company's core metrics is complemented by the substantial external growth initiatives and capital markets activities we undertook in the first 90 days of this year.

I would like to take a few minutes to review with you, first, how our recently signed anchor leases and expansions support our philosophy of constantly improving the quality of our shopping center portfolio and increasing net asset value. Second, I will provide color on our Clarion acquisition. Third, I will briefly cover our redevelopment and development activities. Fourth, I will review our progress on our capital recycling program. And lastly, even with the aforementioned significant growth initiatives, our actions in the capital markets confirm our commitment to maintain and improve our strong balance sheet.

At the end of last week we announced the signing of new leases with Marshalls, Gordmans and Whole Foods. We also sold Walmart their land-lease parcel plus additional acreage to facilitate their expansion to a superstore at our Roseville Plaza in Roseville, Michigan. All of these transactions validate the premise that our shopping centers are the place where retailers want to locate, where national tenants are producing sales volumes that demand that they expand their footprint, and that our centers are the destination of choice for the consumer.

Also, by adding Gordmans Department Store, a leading apparel and home-furnishings retailer to replace a furniture outlet with term left under lease at our Lakeshore Marketplace, we demonstrate that our company is never satisfied leaving an asset with almost 100% leased well enough alone if we believe there is an opportunity to upgrade the quality of the tenant roster and increase net asset value.

It's also interesting to note that this Gordmans store will be one of their first operations in the State of Michigan. The announcement that Whole Foods will be expanding their Indianapolis store, their second store expansion with us in less than 18 months, and that Walmart is expanding their Roseville, Michigan operation speaks to the sales volumes these retailers are able to achieve at our shopping centers.

In March, we acquired our Clarion Partners interest in 12 large market-dominant shopping centers in Florida and Michigan. Each property is located in a densely populated trade area with healthy household income profiles. The centers are tenanted with a lineup of outstanding national credit-quality anchors. In addition to the quality of the markets and tenant mix, we saw a number of advantages in pursuing this rather sizeable acquisition.

First, based on the purchase price, the transaction was immediately accretive, and our return will improve on a full-year basis. These 12 properties increased the company's total assets from $1.2 billion to over $1.5 billion. Additionally, our intimate knowledge of these centers significantly reduces our acquisition risk, and in spite of the number of centers purchased, we will not need to enlarge our operating platform. This transaction also secures to Ramco-Gershenson 100% of the properties upside as we lease-up several boxes and small tenant vacancies, expand existing anchors, which plans are already in the works, and develop or sell adjacent land parcels and outlots. All of these factors combine to make this acquisition a home run for Ramco.

During the quarter, we also completed the Whole Foods redevelopment at our Shops on Lane in Columbus, Ohio.

In addition to the previously mentioned anchor re-tenantings and the complete redevelopment of our Roseville Plaza, we have a number of additional value-add redevelopments in the queue, which will enhance the value of our centers, produce a healthy return on investment, and contribute to our NOI growth.

On the development front, in the first quarter, we opened our newest project, the Parkway Shops in Jacksonville, Florida, with over 98% occupancy and simultaneously sold our first out-lot at the site for a substantial profit. You will remember that Parkway Shops sits adjacent to our 900,000-square-foot River City Marketplace.

At our other development of size, Lakeland Park Center in Lakeland, Florida, we continue to make progress on signing our anchor and large-format tenant leases. As I have stated in the past, we will commence this project as we did with our Parkway Shops in Jacksonville when we have secured commitments from the critical mass of national retailers who ensure the success of this development. We are optimistic that we will reach that threshold in the second or third quarter of this year.

Over the last several quarters, I've outlined for you our development plans for the future. They involve purchasing acreage adjacent to our newest acquisitions where we believe that we can ripen additional tenant interest in these centers. We demonstrated the benefits of this approach as we facilitated the expansion of our newly acquired Fox River Shopping Center in Metropolitan Milwaukee by the addition of T.J. Maxx, Ulta, Charming Charlie's and Rue21 on adjacent land, both at this center where we have 12 additional anchors and at Harvest Junction in Longmont, Colorado, where we also purchased adjacent land. We are in active negotiations to expand these properties at accretive returns on cost.

An important element in the process of improving the quality of our markets, centers, and tenant mix is our capital recycling program. In April, we sold Mays Crossing in Stockbridge, Georgia, which is anchored by Big Lots.

Additional sales will occur throughout the balance of the year. A number of these dispositions will most likely include Michigan assets as we move over the next 18 months to further achieve our goal that no one state represent more than 25% to 30% of pro rata annual rentals.

Concerning our balance sheet, Greg Andrews will discuss the particulars of our successful first quarter. I would just like to state that our board of trustees and the management team are committed to ensuring that we promote an ever stronger capital structure as we grow the company.

With a successful first quarter behind us, you can expect that we will continue to post positive, comparative portfolio statistics throughout the balance of the year. We will make additional acquisitions in our targeted markets of St. Louis, Chicago, and Greater Denver where we are seeing an increasing number of quality shopping centers coming to market. You can expect that we will be a net acquirer from this point through the end of 2013.

Our ability to make significant acquisitions and raise capital while we improve our debt metrics and increase our FFO guidance speaks to a company on the move. As we combine our internal operating increases with our aggressive external initiatives, we are writing the next chapter in Ramco-Gershenson's growth story.

I would now like to turn this call over to Michael Sullivan, who will put our operating activities in context.

Thanks, Dennis. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Our first quarter results are in line with expectations and confirm that we continue to execute on our 2013 business plan. In the first quarter we maintained strong leasing velocity and positive spreads for both new and expiring leases. Our total lease transactions for the quarter exceeded 335,000 square feet. And on a comparable basis, the cash rental spread was up 9.1%.

In the first quarter, we renewed 81% of expiring leases with a rental growth of positive 6.1%. Of the approximately 85,000 square feet of shop leases executed in the first quarter, 82% were with national and regional retailers. The impact of this activity continues to improve the quality of our tenant roster and tenant mix, as well as the predictability and sustainability of our rental income stream. With little new space coming on-line, retailer demand for existing spaces and Ramco's high-quality assets remains strong. We see these trends continuing throughout the year.

During our previous call we spoke of anticipated temporary fluctuations in occupancy in the first quarter, which we viewed as consistent with our historical portfolio trends. For the first quarter, total portfolio physical occupancy dropped 110 basis points, which we projected at year-end. This decrease was due primarily to the lease expiration of a Kmart box at Martin Square, a joint-venture asset in Stuart, Florida. This expiration was anticipated, and therefore, we have been proactively pursuing redevelopment opportunities for this asset, which highlights the broader growth potential within the portfolio. Important positive changes of the trade area, coupled with strong retailer demand and impressive demographics along Florida's Gulf Coast convinced us that we will unlock the embedded value of this asset soon.

Another example of our ability to drive growth within the portfolio is represented in the leasing team's success in reducing the number of dark and paying anchor spaces. At the end of the first quarter, we had just one at Merchants' Square in Carmel, Indiana. Again, we see growth opportunity in leasing the space, as we are close to finalizing an LOI with a national retailer whose presence at the center will create additional lease-up momentum and increased rental streams.

The combination of our aggressive leasing efforts and continuing retailer demand for spaces in our portfolio continues to create upside opportunities for Ramco in 2013. This is clearly evidenced in our ongoing success in minimizing the number of anchor vacancies in the portfolio. Although we ended the first quarter with six because of the Martin Square vacancy, we are confident that based on the active lease negotiations we have, we will have fewer than five spaces that we closed at the end of 2012.

Our occupancy was also slightly impacted by the closure of six Fashion Bug and three in-line Foot Locker stores. To-date, we have replaced two of the Fashion Bug and one of the Foot Locker stores with national retailers and we are in active LOI negotiations for all of the six remaining stores. Given the current leasing velocity and the growth possibilities we've seen in 2013, we are comfortable in confirming that this occupancy drop is in fact temporary and will reverse itself throughout the year to the point that leased occupancy at year-end should be in the high end of our guidance range of around 95% in the core portfolio. Our plan to drive quality in the composition of our top 25 retail tenants is bearing fruit as retailers like Ross Stores, DSW, LA Fitness, Lowe's and Gander Mountain move up the list. Ramco's team remains aggressive in its campaign of persistent portfolio reviews with at-risk retailers.

Achieving our leasing renewal income and cost-containment objectives has also improved our same-center NOI performance. We posted a same-center NOI gain of 2.5% for the quarter and expect this trend to continue in 2013. Ramco's asset management team in 2013 is committed to building on the success we achieved last year with an emphasis on continuing to drive rents and increase portfolio quality through tenancies with best-in-class retailers.

With that, I'll turn it over to Greg.

Thank you, Michael. Let me start by covering the balance sheet, and then I'll review our income for the quarter and conclude with our outlook for the year.

During the quarter, we closed the purchase of our partner's 70% interest in 12 properties owned by Ramco/Lion Venture. This acquisition had the dual benefit of being both a value-driven real estate transaction and a meaningful strategic event for the company. Ramco bought great real estate at a great price and took a large stride forward as a company.

We funded the $256 million purchase price with 65% equity and 35% debt. This 65/35 capitalization further strengthened our balance sheet and enabled us to pay down our line of credit by $10 million during the quarter. In addition, we raised the equity component through both a bought offering and at-the-market sales, making the cost of raising this capital highly efficient.

The debt component consisted of assumed mortgage loans on seven of the 12 properties. Subsequent to quarter end, we paid off two of these mortgages and we intend to pay off a third one in May. When this is done, over 80% of the property we acquired will be unencumbered. Adding these properties to our unencumbered pool will increase its size, quality and diversification. By the end of the next quarter, the total pool is expected to reach $1.1 billion, and three of the top 10 properties in the pool will be ones we bought in this transaction.

Because we now own 100% of these properties, we have consolidated them on balance sheet at a value of $367 million. As a result, our undepreciated property expanded by nearly 30% during the quarter. At the same time, our investment in joint ventures decreased to just $28.5 million. In addition to the benefits from outright ownership of these 12 properties, we believe that the simplification of our capital structure, the increase in our market capitalization, the improved liquidity in our common stock, and the lowering of our overhead ratio will all add value for shareholders.

So, let me sum up where we stand following this transaction. Our total market capitalization is now over $1.8 billion, with debt comprising just 37% of that amount. Our interest coverage improved to 3.3 times and our fixed-charge coverage remained strong at 2.2 times. These are healthy ratios, but we anticipate they will increase with a further quarter – with a full-quarter effect from our acquisition. At the end of the first quarter, we had over $200 million available under our existing line of credit, providing us with ample capacity to meet upcoming debt maturities and capital needs. By the end of the second quarter, we anticipate our unencumbered assets will allow us to borrow up to $250 million of incremental unsecured debt.

In short, our financial position has never been stronger. We are excited about how our financial strength and flexibility will enable us to execute in the current climate.

Now let's turn to the income statement. FFO for the quarter was $0.31 per diluted share. Here are some of the key items driving FFO this quarter. On the operating side, cash NOI of $24.3 million was $3.5 million higher than in the comparable quarter.

As Michael noted, same-center NOI increased 2.5%, driven by minimum rent growth of 2.3% as well as higher percentage rent. On the expense side, we continued to reap the benefit of property tax appeals which lower our operating costs, but also reduce our tenant recoveries.

We posted a provision for credit loss of $286,000 this quarter compared to $441,000 in the previous period. Notwithstanding the lower provision, our allowance for doubtful accounts remains conservatively positioned relative to the amount, aging, and credit quality of our receivables. We expect future provisions for credit loss to remain in the current range of approximately 1% of revenue.

Finally, we had negligible lease termination income this quarter compared to more than $800,000 in the comparable period. General and administrative expense of $5.5 million for the quarter was higher than the $4.9 million a year ago. As shown on page 12 of our supplemental package, the difference reflects two items. First – the first is long-term incentive plan expense, which is tied to the company's relative performance. Our relative total returns have been strong of late, so the true-up of this item, a layering of a new year, added approximately $400,000 to expense this quarter. The second is over $200,000 of acquisition costs compared to almost no such costs a year ago. As a result of these two items, our revised forecast for G&A expense for the full year is between $20.5 million and $21 million.

During the quarter, we booked gains on land sales at $3.6 million or approximately $0.06 per share in two sales. We recorded a $0.05 per share gain on a land sale to Walmart at Roseville Towne Center. As you may recall, this budgeted gain was part of the guidance we provided on our last earnings call. In addition, we had a $0.01 per share gain on a land sale at our Parkway Shops development.

Losses from joint ventures were $5.7 million for the quarter. This amount includes our pro rata share of the loss on sale from the 12 properties sold by Ramco/Lion Venture to us. Excluding this loss, our share of earnings from joint ventures was approximately $700,000. However, earnings from joint ventures as well as related management fee income are expected to decline from first quarter levels as a result of our smaller joint venture platform.

Now let me say a few words about our outlook. We are increasing our 2013 FFO guidance by $0.03 to a range of $1.06 to $1.12 per diluted share. This increase reflects primarily the benefits we expect to realize as a result of acquiring a 12-property portfolio in the first quarter. For those of you modeling earnings, please note that at this range of FFO we anticipate our convertible preferred stock will be diluted FFO for the year and will therefore be reflected as converted in our full-year per-share calculations.

In closing, our financial position is solid, our leasing pipeline is healthy, and our investment opportunities are bright. We look forward to executing our business plan for the remainder of the year.

With that, I'd like to turn the call back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now be conducting our question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning. I'm on with Jordan Sadler as well. First question...

Morning.

Morning. First question, Dennis, you mentioned last quarter that you were confident that acquisition volumes for the year were – would at least match 2012. Did that thinking include the Clarion deal at all, or is that outside of the joint venture deal? I'm just trying to think about acquisitions for the balance of the year in context with your comments about seeing increasing opportunities in St. Louis, Chicago, and the Denver market.

Yes. Todd, we had been talking with Clarion for some time. However, the transaction came together really at the beginning of the first quarter. So, our projections of our acquisitions for the year will exclude the Clarion and we still expect somewhere in the vicinity of $75 million to $100 million in acquisitions.

Okay. And then, it sounds like in the Clarion properties that you acquired that there is some near-term, and I guess long-term upside here selling out some outlots and pads and also some anchor leasing. I was just wondering, were there any constraints in place with the partnership that prevented you from realizing that upside together? Why are those opportunities there now?

No. We had an outstanding working relationship with Clarion. And if you – if we would take the time, we could go back through a number of redevelopments that we did of consequence with them. I think that the primary rationale is that Clarion has changed its direction and is interested in owning different types of assets than the – these shopping centers. And so, we were able to come to an agreement that was advantageous to us, and obviously, satisfied their basic requirement.

But they – and they were well aware of the opportunities to further improve those centers that were well leased. One of the reasons – and I – it may or may not be a question that would follow is that the three assets that were left in the joint venture just basically had – and Martin Square is an example, where Kmart and Sears, their lease ended and they didn't renew. It's a very good asset, but on their books they had a value that was significantly higher than what would be reflected with the vacant Kmart and therefore it just didn't make any sense to attempt to come to agreement on a price. And that's why these three assets remain in the venture. But it also allows us to have a platform to make further acquisitions in the future once they truly identify the box that they want us to move ahead with.

Okay. That was going to be my follow-up. So, the new acquisitions going forward, I guess some of that's still being defined, but how should we really think about how you'll differentiate between what Ramco buys for its books versus a joint venture? I mean, is it your sense that it will be geographic in nature? Is it more core versus value add? And also, what will the split on those deals look like going forward? Will they still be the similar 70/30 structure?

It – we are still operating under the existing agreement, so it would be a 70/30 split. And you are absolutely right; they are very focused on absolute core assets. Albeit, again, they haven't fully fleshed out the definition of the types of centers they want to own. And so, there will not be a conflict between the centers we want to buy that we really see we can still add value to and the ones that they're looking forward that are absolutely stable. More likely than not, relative to the assets and stability, we have the flexibility to take a smaller percentage interest in those assets if it suits our purposes.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, everyone. I just want to go back to the fundamentals real quick. Very nice trends in the renewal spreads over the last couple quarters, and I think Dennis I heard you say that you expect the positive fundamentals to continue over the balance of the year. I was just wondering, is the $61 million, is that a good run rate or was there something that was driving that a little bit higher than it normally would be, because I mean, again, the trend has been fairly consistently higher. So, I'm just trying to think about how we think about the rest of the year on that front.

This is Mike Sullivan. We really see 2013 continuing along pretty close to that number. Our internal goal is to end the year at a minimum of 5%. We had a little kiss at the end of the first quarter. But the indications are from leasing that we're going to be able to sustain similar renewal spreads throughout the year.

Okay. So, there is no big lease that really drove that higher. It's just a general improvement, sounds like.

It's a general improvement, a trend for us.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, Greg, maybe just a question for you. Just trying to reconcile. It sounds like the same-store NOI performance in the quarter was pretty good at, sort of, midpoint of the yearly guidance, but I think at the time that was provided it was supposed to be a little bit more back-half weighted. So, given that we're starting off a little bit stronger here, rent spreads are expected to continue to be solid and it sounds like you're pretty positive on the overall leasing from an occupancy perspective. Just wondering, I mean, is that – do you think we're trending to the high end of that range, or do you think we – does that range move from the 2% to 3%? And just trying to figure why that wouldn't have impacted the FFO guidance a little bit more than it did.

Yes, Vince. There's a number of things as always that go into the FFO guidance, but let me just start with the same-center. We've provided our guidance 2% to 3% for the year and we're right at the middle of that. We did indicate previously that we thought it would be somewhat more back-end weighted as you pointed out. So, potentially there is the chance that we end up towards the high end of that range. But at this time, we're not changing that guidance yet until we have sort of a better outlook for the rest of the year. And then in terms of FFO, again, for the same reason, because we're not changing that outlook, we haven't sort of baked anything into FFO for the full year from that upside. There are a couple of things I pointed out in my prepared remark that got a little bit the other way including the slightly higher G&A this quarter, as well as the coming decrease in earnings from joint ventures and management fee income.

Okay. That's helpful. And just on the acquisitions, can you just provide a little bit more color in terms of the three markets that you noted, Dennis, that you noted that you're seeing increased opportunities? I mean, is there something that's really – what's causing the increased opportunities for you? And then as you think about your own cost of capital which is coming down relative to what you might be able to pay, I'm just wondering, at a high level, how you think about what an acceptable spread on your cost of capital would be to acquire the $75 million to $100 million that you're thinking about?

Yes. Well, first of all, we are seeing a trend in more assets coming to market almost universally. I mean, we get a lot of packages having nothing to do with the areas that we're focused on. And there has definitely been an uptick in that. I think that certainly, in part, driven by the fact that there are more people acquiring, I think one aspect of this, especially in the non-coastal areas is that the cap rates have been driven to such a low level on the coasts that people are beginning to look closer at the interior of the country, where they can find high-quality assets at – to certainly prices better than 5% caps.

As far as we're concerned, in the trade areas that we're focused on, it's absolutely critical that anybody looking at our company, because as we look at these trade areas, whether it's St Louis or Milwaukee, there are very wealthy pockets in these trade areas and if people take the time to take a look at the demographic profiles of the centers that we're buying, they'll see that we are only focused in the St. Louis market and in the Milwaukee market, and even the assets that we've just acquired in the Metropolitan Detroit market, that we'll stack up against any coastal community other than in the heart of Manhattan.

So, we are maintaining a focus on those markets that meet the criteria, which is that they've got to have a strong demographic profile and very high quality tenant mix of retailers that we know are here for the long run. So, again, combining the increase in assets that people, I think, are just feeling that this may be an appropriate time; interest rates still remain low, therefore, there's more competitors out there who will put a lot more financing on these assets than we will. It just is a much frothier market than we found in 2012.

Okay. And then in terms of how you're thinking about your cost of capital versus the cap rates which sounds like, even on the interior, may be coming down a little bit, just given the increased number of buyers. Can you just...

Well, I think that, when all said and done, and remember that in each of the acquisitions we're making, we'd like to think that there is a value-add component. Some of that value-add is what I referenced as far as acquiring adjacent land. But I think still in the mid-7%s is a realistic number, maybe leaning more towards 7% than toward 8%, but anywhere from 7.3% to 7.7%, I think is a good range at the centers we're looking at.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Nathan Isbee with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Dennis, you had mentioned in your prepared remarks about, as much as you had just bought some more properties in Michigan, you're now focusing on perhaps trimming your exposure there. Can you talk a little bit about some of the recent trends, especially as it relates to investor interest in transactions in Michigan that give us a sense of what you might be looking to sell, what you might be able to command on the open market with your properties?

Sure, Nate. First of all, there has definitely been an acceleration in buyer interest in the state of Michigan. A number of institutional players have come into the state of Michigan to buy assets. We have seen – we have absolutely seen a trend in the cap rates coming down. There have been a number of sales in the 7%s, certainly in the low 8%s for Metropolitan Detroit. The assets we will primarily focus on as far as the sales for Michigan will fall into that secondary market and where we might have maximized the value of the assets. I think I've said in prior calls that the centers that we're looking at selling now are not the ones that were distressed that we disposed of in 2012 but really will be reasonably fully leased for 2013, for 2014, again, in secondary markets, and I would assume the cap rates, without trying to pin down a number within 50 basis points or so would be in the higher single digits for – at least for Michigan sales.

All right. Thanks. And then you'd also mentioned earlier about you expect to be a net acquirer for the remainder of 2013. Is – are you planning to do that on a leverage-neutral basis, or would – are you willing to let your debt tick up a little bit from the current 6.5x?

Well, again, hopefully, I communicated to you in my remarks, and especially, that's the focus of our board. I – if our interest ticks up at all, you're talking about a very small percentage. But what we really are focused on is maintaining something right around the mid-6x rate and we do not see it fluctuating higher than that.

Okay. And then just, perhaps, Michael can comment. I don't know if I missed this earlier. Can you give us an update on your office exposure and what you might have come up with over the last few months vis-à-vis the OfficeMax, Office Depot events?

Yes. They were – we're staying very close to the situation. I can tell you that we're in constant communication with what used to be three, now there are two office. We – as we had discussed in the past, done some pretty detailed analysis about competing office stores in a one and three-mile ring from all of our centers that contain – trying to evaluate sales, trying to evaluate what the future is. We're confident that we'll be able to reduce our store count in 2013. We're actively working on that. But we're not hearing a lot of communication out of the newly merged Max and Depot, although we constantly speak with them.

I think it's still early, but we're doing our homework to make sure that, A) We reduce our store count and that B) We are on top of the positioning of each of the stores in our trade areas vis-à-vis competition. So, again, we're all aware of the movement in the market.

Staples, we're still in constant communication with Staples about any downsizing or relocation opportunities. But I think what we can take away from what's currently happening is, we will in fact be able to reduce our store count from the three office suppliers in 2013.

All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Ben Yang with Evercore Partners. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks. Dennis, you had mentioned that investors are increasingly looking at some of the non-coastal regions. It sounds like cap rates are compressing a bit in your core markets. And then I also believe you had given a disposition target through 2015. I think you were selling 15 of your non-core centers over the next three years, so I'm just curious why you guys aren't considering accelerating dispositions for the year and maybe take advantage of those buyers and maybe not take on the risk that cap rates could rise by 2015.

Certainly, all those factors, Ben, are considerations for us. I think we have articulated a conservative disposition program. We are constantly looking at prospective buyers and having conversations with them relative to their interest in centers that we've identified for sale. So, it's entirely possible that you could see an uptick in our distribution – or disposition program in 2013 and in – definitely in 2014. But we're sensitive to the specific comments that you made. And as long as a disposition makes sense for us, we'll move that as far forward as we can.

But is that opportunistic? Yes?

Ben, this is Greg. And just to add to what Dennis said, included in that three-year plan are some assets where we still feel like we have value to add, which is why the plan goes over three years. We want to make sure we've got to maximize what we can do at any of these properties prior to sale.

Okay. Fair enough. I mean, it sounds like that that target could tick up for this year and that – I mean, do you guys – is that more of opportunistic dispositions, maybe buyers approach you, or do you guys engage brokers to try to sell the stuff sooner rather than later? I mean, how does that process play out?

We do both. There are certain players that we know just from what we learn in our markets that they're active. And therefore, we go to some of them directly. And with other assets, we're interested in marketing them through brokers who will get a much wider distribution of our product for opportunities.

Okay, great. And then just final question, when you guys unwind joint ventures like you did with Ramco/Lion, I think Greg or Dennis, you mentioned you got a great price. I'm just curious how you come to an agreement on price, the 7.4% cap rate.

Again, we – because of our relationship with Clarion and because of their change in direction, what we did is we worked very closely with them. We – in each of the markets that we were in, we jointly sought out recent sales. We engaged a number of brokers. And again, together with Clarion, we got their input as far as value was concerned. So, it was a relatively easy process to then take that information and sit down at the table because you truly had a willing buyer and a willing seller and work out a price. So, no one gained an advantage over the other and we both walked away from the transaction feeling very good about it.

Okay. So it sounds like there was a mechanism to incorporate, maybe like a current market value on that price. So, I guess kind of building on that, in your experience, is there typically a discount on only partial interest in centers like to sell versus if you were to fully sell the asset to a different buyer?

I think each case varies. There was a lockup period in our relationship for five years. But once that lockup period was over, Clarion could have forced the sale to – in the marketplace. So, they weren't at all constrained if we – if they didn't feel that we've come to an amicable price, they could have said, well, if that's the way you feel then we're going to market this asset. So, I think that at least in this situation, it was a fair value.

Okay. So, then you bought it a 7.4%, you could probably sell it at a 7.4% today as well?

Well, again, I think we bought it at 7.4%, based on 2012 numbers. We expect 2013 numbers to be better. And as I alluded to, there are a number of plays in these assets that we're already moving on will – that will increase the value even further.

Okay. And then just finally, I mean, what is the cap rate based on 2013 NOI for those assets?

I think you're talking about somewhere between 7.5% and 7.6% just without any of these value-add activities that we're talking about.

Got it. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan Chase. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. I guess, if we're looking at the development and redevelopment pipeline out over the next few years, I mean, what do you think the annual spend or the total spend over the next few years could amount to if you look at everything that seems pretty visible and you roll it all up?

Yes. Hi, Mike. It's Greg. So, as we pointed out, we've added one new project to our redevelopment schedule and then one rolled off. But what we anticipate happening over the next sort of 12 to 18 months is a ramp-up of activity in both the redevelopment, development and even expansion category. We talked about some land that we acquired adjacent to centers we bought, which provides an opportunity to expand those centers. We are working diligently on a couple opportunities there that we hope will come to fruition over that 12 to 18 month horizon. We have the Lakeland Park development that Dennis referred to where we're still working on signing key leases, but we have – are hopeful of moving that project forward during that period, and then finally, some redevelopments at existing centers. So, all told, I think we're ramping up to kind of a $20 million to $30-million-ish number just depending on the timing of all of it.

Okay. That was it. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of RJ Milligan with Raymond James & Associates. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. Michael, I was just wondering if you could give a little bit more granularity on what you're seeing in terms of leasing trends for your two larger markets, both Michigan and Florida. Who's taking space, specifically I guess within the small shops, who's taking space and is it more national retailers, or have you seen the mom-and-pops come off the sidelines?

RJ, we're pretty bullish on not only our leasing velocity with our recent prospects. Certainly, in Michigan and Florida, especially as – as Dennis mentions, we stack up these assets and these demographics to mostly any trade area in the country. We're very confident that we can continue this leasing velocity in Michigan and Florida. And quite frankly, as a side note, really across the portfolio, we're seeing similar trends. But clearly, based on the recurring composition of our executed leases, we're focusing on nationals and retailers, and we believe with the quality of our assets, with the open-to-buy programs and the relocation programs with these national, regional retailers, we have some great opportunity to get them into our centers. We're certainly seeing that in the mid-box category. We're making some great strides as we've spoken about in the past with national – a larger-format shop users, and that's a great category that we're executing on. The truly small-shop executed lease trends still rests with – in our minds, with nationals, whether they're corporate stores or they're franchise-related operations.

The one thing we want to be very careful of and selective of really would be the selection of local mom and pops to fill spaces there. We want to make sure that they have compelling business plans. We want to make sure that there is little default risk, and we want to minimize landlord capital outlay in these deals. You might see some of these local mom-and-pop shop deals be maybe of a shorter term, but they're out there. The deals are there to be made but we're being more selective. So, the takeaway is that our emphasis is still national/regional from mid-box going down to truly shop. And we're seeing a frothy environment for all those different users at the different size categories.

So, as you're looking at national retailers, would you say that demand is pretty similar between Michigan and Florida, or is there one of those markets that you think is stronger in terms of leasing velocity and lease spread prospects?

We look at them as really being similar. And I think if you look at our opportunities moving forward and maybe even look at a snapshot the last 12 months, you'll see we've had some good activity with nationals in both markets. But we would see them to be similar in the minds of nationals. Dennis mentioned we've gotten some nationals and some regionals to actually enter the Michigan market and consider Ramco assets. We see that's going to continue.

If I could just add one thing to that, and that is – we have very little Michigan small-tenant space to lease because of how well-leased we are, both for the big box and for small shop in Michigan. So, there is a lot more opportunity obviously in the state of Florida and little opportunity in Michigan, knock on wood because the trade areas that our centers are located in have been vibrant enough that we obtained those tenancies.

Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks. Just a question for Greg. You noted that the two mortgages from the Clarion deal were retired subsequent to the end of the quarter and that a third will be retired shortly. Those three mortgages, if I'm not mistaken, is roughly $70 million of mortgage that had in place a coupon of about 7.5%. I was just wondering, how were those mortgages retired?

Yes. I think it's actually more in total of that. I think it's closer to $100 million at 100%. But we are currently using our line to pay those off. And then we are looking at longer-term financing options to pay down the line. But there is, as I pointed out, over $200 million of capacity on the line, so plenty of room there to work it that way.

Okay. And so, if I kind dig in the guidance of that – I'm wondering what the assumptions that are embedded in guidance are for the – for permanently financing those. I guess, if I think about the composition of the $0.03 guidance revision, it seems like there is an incremental $0.01 from the additional land sale gain and then I guess $0.02 per share from the transaction overall, is that about right? I know there was a little bit of an offset from G&A, but it seems like there'll be more accretion given the above market debt that was in place that you're probably going to realize a 300 to 400 basis point positive spread on.

Well, recall we always had an interest in those properties and we forecast as part of our budget and guidance for the year that those mortgages would be rolling and the interest rates would be coming down. So...

Your forecast for the year – your forecast for the year didn't necessarily include a – for a 100% interest, right? You weren't forecasting that you would buy in these assets when you gave the original guidance.

No, we didn't – we didn't know. We didn't...

So we got another $70 million, $80 million, $100 million at 7% to 8% that all rolled down to 4% and that's pretty significant savings.

Yes. And that's more part of – I think the benefit from the transaction overall is the pickup in income that we're getting, both from the rental income as well as the ability to reduce the interest expense associated with those properties. So, the strategy is to seek long-term financing at current market rates which certainly are a lot less than 7.5%.

And that's not necessarily in guidance.

No. I'm sorry, that is in our current guidance.

The savings is in guidance, so a 300 or 400 basis point savings on the $100 million?

Yes. I mean the mortgage, yes.

Okay. Will follow up with you after the call.

Okay.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] It appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any concluding remarks.

As always, we thank everybody for their interest and their attention. Please watch for additional announcements throughout the quarter, and we look forward to talking with you again in about 90 days. Thanks again. Bye.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.