Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Dawn L. Hendershot — Vice President-Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Dennis Earl Gershenson — President & Chief Executive Officer, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
John M. Hendrickson — Chief Operating Officer, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Gregory R. Andrews — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust
Todd M. Thomas — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Craig R. Schmidt — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Vincent Chao — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Vineet Khanna — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Nate Isbee — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Collin P. Mings — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings. Welcome to the Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Dawn Hendershot, Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Thank you, Ms. Hendershot. You may now begin.

Good morning and thank you for joining us for the second quarter 2015 earnings conference call for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust. With me today are Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer; John Hendrickson, Chief Operating Officer; and Gregory Andrews, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call which are not historical may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additionally, statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made.

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the second quarter press release.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dennis Gershenson for his opening remarks.

Thank you, Dawn. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

The last 90 days has been a busy period for our company. Our acquisitions, dispositions, announced value-add redevelopments and re-tenantings all helped to streamline our portfolio and improve its quality.

In this last quarter, in addition to announcing the acquisition of the majority of the shopping centers in our [ph] Heitman-450 Joint Venture (2:02) and one of the two remaining centers in the Clarion venture, we acquired two small income-producing parcels that are part of two of our shopping centers. Most of these purchases were pursued to ensure our control of their tenancies, as we continue to upgrade the retail mix at all of our properties. The acquisition of our partner's interest in seven high-quality shopping centers simplifies our capital and ownership structure. These acquisitions support our strategy of owning centers in strong metropolitan markets and our goal of diversifying our geographic footprint.

Further, each center includes a grocer, which is either a leading supermarket in its trade area or is a specialty grocer like Whole Foods at The Shops on Lane Avenue in Columbus, Ohio. Additionally, the individual centers acquired presents an opportunity to add value to redevelopment, re-tenanting and expansion, which is consistent with our historical acquisition criteria.

We will be funding these acquisitions through our capital recycling program, which is a very efficient source of capital to effectuate our business plan, as we simultaneously dispose of those assets we consider non-core.

To that end, during the quarter, we sold two land parcels generating approximately $13 million. These sales constitute all of the lands [indiscernible] (3:35) with the exception of the office building and one valuable out lot. We will also sell to our partner in the 450 Venture an interest in The Plaza at Delray in Delray Beach, Florida, and we are jointly marketing The Chester Springs Shopping Center in Chester, New Jersey.

These two properties, along with the Florida joint venture center that was previously acquired by Clarion, were priced at aggressive capitalization rates. We will benefit by their disposition and share. It is also our intention to sell a number of additional non-core properties with the objective of raising $60 million to $75 million.

During the quarter, we also announced a number of re-tenantings and retailer expansions. These changes to our tenant mix, along with Nordstrom Rack, Stein Mart and other previously announced additions to our tenant roster, as well as additional high-quality credit-worthy retailers who will be signed in the third quarter and fourth quarters, are ongoing validation of the desirability of our trade areas and our shopping centers specifically.

Thus, for the foreseeable future, redevelopments, re-anchorings and shopping center expansions will be critical elements in our growth plans, as it is the strength of our shopping center locations and the ever-improving quality of our tenant mix, which will ensure that our properties remain the dominant retail focus in our trade areas.

During the second quarter, we also announced that John Hendrickson will be joining the company as our Chief Operating Officer. John brings years of experience in the shopping center industry, and his ideas and organizational talents are already having a positive impact on our operations. We are pleased that John has been able to integrate himself so rapidly into our organization, so that he's able to speak with authority as a participant on this call.

In summary, our actions during the first half of 2015 reinforce our commitment to focus our energies on constantly upgrading the quality of our trade areas, our shopping centers and our tenant mix. Although we appreciate the desirability of a healthy demographic profile at high average base rents, these metrics speak more to the market where a center is located and not necessarily to the specific quality of one shopping center nor its tenant mix. We believe that it's the ability to attract, retain, expand and right-size those retailers who are at the top of their game along with the ability to consistently increase average base rents that are the best indicators of quality.

Our proven track record of success in attracting these retailers and driving average base rents speaks to the quality of our shopping centers and our management team. Our goal is to ensure that our assets are responsive to the needs of the consumer in our trade area, that we constantly refresh our tenant mix with the most relevant and exciting new retail concepts, and that our properties are attractive, inviting and create a sense of place. Our ability to succeed with each of these elements generate ongoing demand from retailers to locate in our properties and interest in consumers to shop at our centers. These results produce ever-increasing rental rates, driving growth in both net operating income and net asset value, which internally advances our overarching goal of growing shareholder value.

I would now like to turn this call over to John, who'll provide color for our operating results. John?

Thank you, Dennis. Good morning, everyone. I just finished my second month at the company, and now that I have visited nearly all of our shopping centers and I've gotten to know most of our team, I couldn't be more excited about the quality of the platform that we have in terms of our markets, our assets and our personnel, all of which are important elements in continuing to drive value for our shareholders.

As Dennis mentioned, our focus remains on continuing to transform the portfolio. The changes we are implementing in the organization now and over the next few months will enhance value through smarter execution and a more streamlined business model. I will discuss some of these initiatives we have already started to implement but, first, I want to talk about this quarter's operating results.

We continue to see strong tenant demand for our portfolio. This is reflected both in the consistent number of lease transactions completed this quarter and the comparable cash flow overspread of 9.1%. We also continue to see demand from best-in-class retailers, which are helping to transform our portfolio. Recent examples of this includes additions of Hunter's Square of Saks OFF 5TH, one of only two in Michigan, and DSW.

At Mission Bay Plaza in Boca Raton, Florida, we are expanding LA Fitness and we are re-leasing an underperforming anchor space to another best-in-class retailer that we will soon announce. Also in the works is a lease with a unique, high-quality, new-to-Michigan retailer at our West Oaks property. Look for announcements on both these tenants in the next 60 days.

While these property transformations may have a short-term impact on occupancy, we believe it is most important to drive long-term value. At our current overall leased occupancy of over 95%, near term, we are focused on driving growth through upgrading tenant quality, pushing rents to deliver rollover spreads in the high single digits and smart lease terms, which includes strong annual rent increases during the term and crafting fewer tenant renewal options which gives us better control of our real estate. As the portfolio improves, we also continue to believe over the next several years, we will be able to restore small shop occupancy back near historical highs.

Same-center NOI growth year-to-date is a solid 2.8%. We expected a dip in the second quarter growth compared to the first quarter. And with better visibility and due to the fact that we are not pushing an increase in occupancy over 2014 level as we focus even more on bringing high-quality tenants and rents to our centers, we are now tightening our same-center growth value for the full year to 2.5% to 3% without the impact of our redevelopment pipeline or, of course, the impact of new acquisitions like yesterday's purchase of the Heitman portfolio.

While not included in same-center statistics until 2016, the Heitman portfolio has significant embedded growth opportunities. Within the portfolio, there is $1.3 million of potential annual value in the current vacancy and an additional $300,000 of annual growth just from small shop tenants expiring over the next three years assuming our typical rent rollover.

This $1.6 million of potential increase to the portfolio's annual NOI does not include any contractual advance, any below-market anchor leases, including the Kmart at Crofton Centre, or the several value-add opportunities within the portfolio. We are currently working to advance two of these opportunities, a multi-tenant add-up addition at Shops on Lane and a 1.7-acre vacant development parcel at Peachtree Hill.

Regarding value-add, these projects are an important part of our future growth, and further identifying and implementing our opportunities has been a priority for me during these last couple of months.

As you can see on page 22 of our supplement, we added three active projects this quarter and we are currently implementing $72 million of value-add projects that are expected to stabilize over the next six quarters. These active projects are only a small portion of the significant pipeline identified within the entire portfolio. Nearly half of all properties in our portfolio have some form of identified value-add opportunity.

In fact, many of our acquisitions during the last 18 months have redevelopments that we are close to starting, so you should expect to see more of these added to our active projects closed in the next several quarters, including the projects at Deerfield Towne Center, Front Range Village and Woodbury Lakes.

While the company's value-added pipeline will evolve and many of these opportunities are subject to feasibility review and approvals, I certainly believe our platform can support more than our recent range of $50 million to $75 million of active projects. Therefore, we will work to grow activity in the near term.

Continued smart execution will be necessary to get after these opportunities and produce measurable NOI and NAV growth. So, starting this week, we have made a significant change to how we operate our properties. As part of an effort to streamline our decision-making process and further drive the business, we have widened our operating platform to create two integrated portfolio teams. Each of these two teams are led by a portfolio manager, experienced at creating value at the property level and supported by a strong bench of leasing, property management, development, marketing and financial personnel with full ownership over the success of their teams and property portfolios.

We have built these teams largely with personnel already in place and do not expect our G&A to be outside the guidance we previously gave for the year. Each of these teams will be aligned around shared goals and would be judged by their success in achieving growth in cash flow and net asset value.

I'm very excited about this restructure because I believe that the best way to drive real estate value is to eliminate [indiscernible] (13:25) between disciplines and to push decisions close to the ground. I certainly expect that we will begin to see the benefits of this restructuring in our operating results over the next year.

In conclusion, I am energized by the long runway of opportunities we have here at the company to continue to drive value. Thanks partially to being such a nimble company, I'm certain we will be able to move the needle in a meaningful way over the next couple of years and create significant value.

That's all I have for the moment. Now let me turn it over to Greg, who will provide more color on this quarter's numbers and discuss the balance sheet. Greg?

Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. Let me start by discussing our balance sheet. Assets, liabilities and equity each changed modestly in the second quarter.

In terms of assets, we sold our Town Center at Aquia, which was purchased primarily as developable land, for $13.4 million. We used $10.5 million of the proceeds to acquire previously non-owned portions of two of our shopping centers. We will benefit not only by generating income on our capital, but also by better controlling the market at these two centers.

On the debt front, we paid off $18.1 million of mortgages where the interest rates were scheduled to reset to higher levels. We also negotiated a one-year extension to the mortgage on our Town Center at Aquia office building while we lease up vacancy there. We expect this loan extension to close in the third quarter.

Finally, on the equity front, we converted approximately $7.5 million of our convertible preferred stock into common stock. Our balance sheet ended the quarter in strong shape with low leverage, high coverage and ample liquidity.

As previously mentioned, we are acquiring interest in seven shopping centers for $186 million. We will fund the acquisitions as follows: number one, $48 million of assumed mortgage debt bearing an weighted average interest rate of 4.8%; two, $50 million of newly issued 10-year unsecured senior notes at 4.2%; and three, approximately $88 million of borrowings under our line of credit. We expect to pay down the borrowings with $60 million to $75 million of disposition proceeds in the second half of the year.

As a result of this transaction, our leverage will increase modestly. Pro forma net debt to EBITDA will be approximately 6.5 times. As I've mentioned on previous calls, leverage at this level is well within our comfort zone, particularly given that we maintain ample liquidity, majority fixed rate debt, staggered maturities and an above-average term of debt.

In addition to funding these transactions, we also have $68.5 million of mortgage debt to refinance through the rest of the year with an average rate of 5.2%. The debt markets in all forms remain accommodating. We will update you with our progress in this regard later this year.

Now let me turn to the income statement. Operating FFO for the quarter was $0.31 per diluted share compared to the same amount for the comparable period. Operating FFO this quarter excludes a $1.4 million gain on extinguishment of debt, $0.3 million of acquisition costs, and $0.5 million in preferred share redemption costs.

Turning to the core line items driving operating FFO this quarter. Overall cash NOI was $40.6 million or $6 million higher than in the comparable quarter. This increase reflects our 2014 acquisitions, our development of Phase I of Lakeland Park, and our same-center NOI growth, all partly offset by our dispositions over the last year.

Same-center NOI increased $0.7 million or 2.3% this quarter, driven primarily by 2.2% growth in minimum rents. Our same-center recovery ratio dipped slightly on both a comparable and sequential basis. This reflects lower recoveries on electricity due to some anchor downtime. For our wholly owned portfolio, our provision for credit loss in the quarter was $270,000 compared to $307,000 a year ago.

General and administrative costs were $5.5 million or approximately $300,000 higher than last year, primarily due to recruitment and training fees. We expect G&A to be higher in subsequent quarters as the cost of recent hires is fully reflected in our run rate. For the year, our expectation at G&A in the area of $23 million remains unchanged from our original guidance. Finally, interest expense was up $2.4 million, which simply reflects our asset growth over the last year.

Now let me say a few words about our outlook for 2015. We are narrowing our guidance for 2015 operating FFO to a range of $1.28 to $1.32 per diluted share. Consistent with our prior guidance, we anticipate receiving another $0.01 or so per share of land sales gains in either the third quarter or fourth quarter of this year.

In closing, our mission remains consistent, to drive income quality and income growth in our core portfolio while maintaining a rock-solid balance sheet.

I would now like to open the call for your questions. Operator?

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question is coming from the line of Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital. Please go ahead with your questions.

Hi. Thanks. Good morning. First question, can you provide a little more clarity on the cap rates you might expect on the asset sales that you're planning to fund the disposition of the seven properties at a 6%, 7% cap rate? I'm just trying to understand the delta between what you're selling and what you're buying.

Yeah. Good morning, Todd. They are going to be – some of them all over the map. Obviously, as I referred to in my prepared remarks, the Plaza Delray, the Chester Shopping Center and the other Florida asset that we sold earlier in the year went off at very aggressive cap rates. I think the majority of shopping centers that we will sell later in the year will command cap rates well in the 7%s. So, I think that for modeling purposes, if you picked something in the very low 7%s, you probably would be on target for an average of all of those dispositions.

Okay. And then, with what you're planning to sell, you talked about $60 million to $75 million of proceeds, I mean, can you maybe book in the gross value of the real estate that you expect to sell? And then, maybe a little more specific with regard to the timing would also be helpful.

Well, I certainly can talk to the timing. We're in contract on several sales now. The buyers are going through due diligence, so I expect to be able to articulate, at least in our next call, a number of those and some information around them.

When we talk about the $60 million to $75 million, the first centers that we've sold, the ones that I've talked about, obviously, those were just centers where we owned a portion of them. But the balance of the year, if you wanted to take those out, we're probably talking somewhere in the $45 million to $55 million range for the value of the centers that we'll be selling.

Okay. And then, Greg, maybe a question for you. Just aside from the dispositions and the proceeds that the sales will generate, are there any additional financing or capital-raising assumptions baked in the guidance from here on out?

Well, we continue to evaluate, as I said, a plan for refinancing some of the mortgage debt that's coming due in the second half of the year. And the markets are very accommodating, whether it's the bank market or the private placement market. Our bias generally is to maintain a fairly long-weighted average term of debt. So I think it's not unreasonable to assume that there might be some additional activity to term out debt in the 5- to 10-year range.

Okay. And the 6.5 times net debt-to-EBITDA ratio that you mentioned, is that where you expect leverage to be at year-end after completing the dispositions that you're anticipating?

That's a pro forma for the acquisitions adjusted for the dispositions we've described. So, I don't want you to take it as a guidance for year-end as much as it's just a pro forma calculation. There are other pieces of our business, including investment and redevelopment and so forth. So we don't typically give a specific guidance for where leverage will be at a point in time, but it is a pro forma. So it'll be a little higher with the acquisitions and then come down a little below – come down a little bit as we sell properties and pay off debt.

Okay, got it. All right, thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America. Please go ahead with your question.

Thank you. How much money was raised through the asset sales of Plaza at Delray and Chester Springs?

Hi, Craig. It's Greg. Our partners have asked us not to disclose those numbers to you. So I think, unfortunately, you'll have to get creative in maybe looking at other ways to sort of estimate those numbers.

Okay. And is that part of the $60 million to $75 million, or is that in addition to these sales?

Yeah, it's part of that number.

Okay. And what is your same-store NOI guidance? Are you staying with the previous guidance?

Hey, Craig. It's John Hendrickson. We've actually narrowed our guidance, as I mentioned, in my prepared remarks to 2.5% to 3%.

Okay, I'm sorry. Thanks.

And it's really – as I've mentioned, the reason for that is that we're not driving occupancy gains probably above 2014 levels so that's – because we're choosing now to take the quality over quantity, really.

In terms of tenants?

In tenant quality, exactly.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan. Please go ahead with your questions.

Yeah. Hi. Just following up on that answer about occupancy. Should we be thinking of occupancy as just not going up from here, or do you see a little bit of disruption through this process where we're going to see a little bit of a pullback?

Hi, Michael. It's John Hendrickson again. No, I think you should expect that by the end of the year that occupancy probably will have some gain, but probably not materially more than 2014 levels at the end of the year.

Okay. That was it. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Vincent Chao with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Yes. John, question for you. You had mentioned in your prepared remarks that you feel like the infrastructure there is able to support much higher than $50 million to $75 million redevelopments, which has been sort of the number that's been tossed around on an annual basis. Just curious how much you think could be done a year, obviously, you have to find projects, but just trying to get a goal post here for what you think the current structure can support.

Hey, Vincent. I think the – I don't know that I can give a specific number. I certainly think there's more opportunity here as we work through the portfolio. So at this point, I don't think I'm ready to give a specific number but, certainly, we'll be pushing to drive that over the next year, really.

Got it. And then, I guess, relative to – prior to you getting there, I mean, I guess, was this just not as much of a focus as you're going to be faced on it? I guess, why haven't we seen a little bit more aggressiveness on the redevelopment side here so far? Just curious what your thoughts on that.

Yeah. I don't know that's it's necessarily – I think it's more of an opportunity to having a new focus, a new perspective coming in. And also that I think it kind of ties into why we're doing a rework from a standpoint of providing new focus. I think we'll be able to get to things quicker, make decisions quicker and execute quicker, and that will help demonstrate that pipeline.

Got it.

Yeah. Vin, this is Greg. If I might just add to what John said, some of the projects that he mentioned in his opening remarks are the centers that we bought over the last year. And so, those are relatively new properties in our portfolio, and it's taken us a little bit of time to integrate them and then develop the plans that we want to go forward with. So, I think a part of it is also just the recency effect of those properties.

Okay. That makes sense. And maybe just one last one on the organizational side. When do you think the organization will be sort of fully ramped up and at full productivity under the new structure?

Under the new structure, I would hope by the end of the year, we can be really starting to be – everybody's organized and direction and know their roles and are working together as a team. So, that's kind of my target for that.

Okay. Nice. And sorry, just the last one, Greg, maybe for you on the G&A side. I know the guidance is unchanged for the year, but I guess do you think the third quarter will reflect full run rate of what G&A will be going forward, given the new hires or do you think it'll still be ramping up into fourth quarter?

No, I think that's correct, Vin, that the third quarter and fourth quarter will be about the same and be fully ramped up. And we may come in just slightly under that guidance if we manage it well, but that's still kind of our working assumption right now.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks, Vince.

Our next question is from the line of Vineet Khanna with Capital One Securities. Please go ahead with your questions.

Hi. Good morning. Would you mind talking about sort of cap rate and just sort of acquisition trends in your markets? Are you seeing more competition now than you were three months ago, six months ago, 12 months ago?

Good morning, Vineet. I think that the cap rates are certainly every bit as aggressive as they were before. You still have significant institutional money that is looking to be placed.

And although we continue to keep our toes in the water as far as understanding not just cap rates but opportunities in the markets that we find most desirable, we certainly are seeing that the vast majority of properties that we would have an interest in are priced at numbers that are more aggressive than we would consider paying.

I think that the acquisitions that we made with our partners and truly understanding the upside potential for them and then add a blended cap rate of 6.7% was an opportunistic purchase for us, and we're not finding too many opportunities anywhere near those numbers.

Sure. Thank you. And then, John, I know you gave us sort of your impressions of the portfolio announced structural changes. But more broadly, could you speak any surprises, you had positive or negative since your arrival?

Well, honestly, coming from my background, I guess I'm probably more surprised positive than negative. I certainly feel like the portfolio has opportunities that may not be widely appreciated. And I didn't – from an outsider standpoint, didn't appreciate the standpoint of the opportunities to both push rents and drive those net asset value through redevelopment in those properties, both because of the position of the – where they position within the markets but also our team in place to execute on those. So I don't know that – and I can't speak specifically that any – I can't think of any specific negatives at the moment, but that's really been the overall impression so far.

Sure. And then, just finally, can you guys give sort of an update on the Community First initiative, how that's going, if you think about growing that out of more centers?

Well, yeah. We have a number of specific events going on at several of our shopping centers, specifically six centers. And the reception is not only great with literally hundreds of people showing up. Our Walking Club program is going extremely well. We're making outstanding use of technology in really being able to track the number of people who are registering for our events and their opportunity to actually earn either prizes or gift certificates, et cetera, through the Internet.

I think one-year results will really tell the tale on how successful we've really been. And we're looking forward to that right around the first part of next year. But so far, all indications are that this is a very successful program.

All right, thank you. That's it for me.

Thanks, Vineet.

Our next question is coming from the line of Jennifer Hummert with Stifel. Please go ahead with your questions.

Hi. Good morning. It's Nate here with Jennifer. Just going back to the adjusted same-store NOI range, you attribute it to the limited occupancy gains due to, I guess, more of a hard-line approach on tenant quality. Would you say that was 100% of the adjustment, or has there been any increase on what unplanned move-outs?

Hey, Nate.

Or a slowdown in leasing velocity for that matter?

No, I don't think there's slowdown in our tenant demand, or when I've looked at historically compared to our tenant move-outs has been basically in line. So, I think you're seeing the near-term occupancy change or seeing a bit of a timing issue, but really it's about our focus on trying to drive value besides through occupancy gain is really what's driving it. I don't see it any place else.

Yeah, I would add, Nate, that because certain changes in tenancies where we have been more than willing to not renew certain individual tenants when their leases come up or with some of the opportunities in re-tenanting that we do not consider significant enough to call a redevelopment. We're going to see a gap between the income that we had with certain of those tenants and then putting in the new retailer, whether it's an Ulta or a Kirkland's, retailers who fall into the – anywhere from 8,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet. You've got downtime for those people and, therefore, that's going to impact same-center and we thought it was prudent to revise that guidance.

Right. Thank you so much.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Collin Mings with Raymond James. Please proceed with your questions.

Hey, thanks. Good morning. Couple of quick questions from me. First, just during the quarter, it looks like there was an increased NPI. Maybe I missed it, but can you maybe put a little bit more color around that?

Yeah. Hi, Collin. It's John Hendrickson. Yeah, there was an increase showing. It's really just a product of the leases that are signed in the quarter. We had several high-quality junior and anchor boxes and restaurants that are driving that. I don't think it's an indication of really anything of the future necessarily, but I think like over the next – our 12-month run rate is probably – is a good guideline of future levels.

Okay. That's helpful. And then just going back to the JV buyout, just – as you think about the opportunities from here, how do you think about the opportunity set as far as continue to kind of simplify the portfolio, or do you think most of the heavy lifting at this point is done?

Well, we have a just – we've got one asset left in the – the Clarion joint venture, and that really is waiting – just leasing some additional space that was left over when the original big box was vacated and we've leased approximately half of that. So our partner wanted to wait sometime to see if we can realize on that.

And then we have several additional assets in a Heitman relationship that was not associated with the 450 joint venture. Those were much more opportunistic. And as we execute on those or complete execution, then I would assume that you could expect those to be sold as well.

Okay. All right. But those being sold as an asset, you would want to take on to your balance sheet or just jettison those [ph] shady (37:53) relationships?

Well, in looking at the several that are in the ventures, there certainly is at least one that we would find desirable that has Whole Foods as an anchor. The other will have to be considered as we look at the situation, when our partner feels that it is appropriate to sell it. We have very small interest in those because our interest is really only about 7%.

Okay. Fair enough. And then just one last one. Just going back, I guess, John, to the conversation around the trade-off between pushing occupancy and kind of focusing on better tenants and pushing rents. Can you just maybe speak, are there any like maybe geographic or other characteristics on where you don't feel like maybe where you are more focused on occupancy and trying to still kind of lease up versus pushing on pricing power and tenant quality and all those other aspects, or is it pretty much across the board where you feel like it's now really shifted more to that quality and pricing?

Well, I think generally it's across the board that pushing on quality over quantity, as I say. I mean, the one opportunity, obviously, the portfolio we just bought still has opportunities. The Heitman portfolio will have opportunity, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks. That will help – that we'll certainly should be able to gain some small-shop occupancy there. But I don't think there's enough certainly geographical distinction in that goal at the moment.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Our next question is from Todd Thomas, KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Thanks. Just a couple of quick follow-ups. John, you mentioned the 2.5% to 3% same-store NOI growth does not include redevelopment. Just looking at the footnotes in the redevelopment pipeline, I just wanted to confirm whether or not the Ross at Deer Grove, the Stein Mart at Winchester, whether those leases will be included in same-store NOI when they come online. And then also the timing, I was just curious relative to last quarter, you removed when they are expected to be completed. Are they still fourth quarter 2015 lease commencements?

So, yeah. Well, first off to confirm, yeah, as our footnotes have indicated on development pipeline, the Ross at Deer Grove, Stein Mart at Winchester will be included in the same-center as they come off. I believe the timing is still fourth quarter for that.

Okay. And then also the yields, if we look back to last quarter, you had yields broken out for each project. Now you're showing a weighted average of 9% to 10% which is consistent. Just curious, there's 10 projects there, though, any changes to the individual projects relative to last quarter?

Hey, Todd, it's Greg. No, there really isn't. I think just from a standpoint, kind of a competitive standpoint and at the preference of some of the retailers that we do business with, we're now providing that guidance on an aggregate basis for the portfolio, which is really how you're going to model it anyway.

Okay. And then, just lastly, you talked about the retail on the land that you sold at Aquia. I was just curious if you could provide us with an update on the office portion and whether or not there's any progress thus far to backfill the vacancy or any indication on when that might fill up.

Yes, this is Greg again. I think we mentioned last quarter that we had leased a portion of what was vacated at year-end, and that tenant took occupancy, I believe, and started paying rent in May. And we have a number of prospects in the queue. Some of them are waiting to see how their business fares. Some of them are [ph] the past (42:20) contactors and they're dependent on getting awarded contracts. But they're in the queue and we're very optimistic that we'll fill more space there. And in the meantime, we are negotiating this one-year extension with a lender, so that gives us time to get that building leased up.

Ultimately, I think you and others understand we're not in the office business, and this asset is really not part of the core type of investment that we want to own. But we do want to extract value from it by getting it leased up and paying good NOI.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. It seems you have no further questions at this time. I will turn the floor back to management for further comments.

As always, we would like to thank you for your interest and your time. We are bullish about our prospects in executing on all of our plans, and we look forward to talking with you in approximately 90 days. Have a good day.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect your lines at this time.