Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vincent Chao — Senior Vice President-Finance, RPT Realty
Brian L. Harper — President, Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, RPT Realty
Michael P. Fitzmaurice — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, RPT Realty
Derek Johnston — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Todd Michael Thomas — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Craig Schmidt — Analyst, BofA Securities, Inc.
Linda Tsai — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Floris van Dijkum — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
RJ Milligan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Peter W. Hermann — Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to RPT Realty First Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Vin Chao, Senior Vice President of Finance. Thank you, sir. You may begin.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us for RPT's first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Additionally, statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the statements made. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, factors and risks could cause actual results to differ from expectations.

Certain of these factors are described as risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, and in our earnings release for the first quarter 2021. Certain of these statements made on today's call also involved non-GAAP financial measures. Listeners are directed to our first quarter press releases, our first quarter supplement and our fourth quarter 2020 press release, which include definitions of those non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to the nearest GAAP measures and which are available on our website in the Investors section.

I would like to now turn the call over to President and CEO Brian Harper; and CFO Mike Fitzmaurice for their opening remarks, after which we will open the call for questions.

Good morning, and thank you for joining our first quarter 2021 conference call. I hope you and your families are all well. We're happy to kick off the New Year in strong fashion. Our rent collections continue to tick higher. We continue to benefit from the multi-year mark-to-market opportunity and strong demand at our centers. We recently closed on our net new net lease platform and are now under contract on our first property in the Boston market that we expect to allocate between RPT's balance sheet and the new platform.

We believe we now have the capital and the platforms to generate strong external growth as well as the portfolio quality and leasing demand to drive above trend internal growth as we move past the pandemic. While the pandemic has created many hardships, it has also created opportunities that we have been able to capitalize on. For instance, COVID-19 has had a negative impact on many tenant categories. But unlike during the global financial crisis, it has also had a positive impact on many other tenant categories like grocery, home improvement, electronics, wholesale clubs, general merchandise, and medical use. It has also boosted some businesses that were struggling pre-pandemic, like pets, office supply and hobby. Ironically, many of the big box tenants that were not in favor pre-pandemic have thrived since, enough so that we think credit center is a more apt description for the power center category.

One of the biggest opportunities that we saw after the onset of COVID was an acceleration of the widening valuation gap between different segments of retail real estate. It soon became clear that there were numerous value creation opportunities to unlock if we could figure out a way to monetize the various dislocations between single versus first multitenant properties, larger versus smaller footprints, and between essential and high credit but non-essential tenant categories.

Our solution was our net new net lease retail real estate platform with our partners GIC, Zimmer and Monarch that we are calling RGMZ until we rebrand later this year. Given the relationship with RPT and our existing operating and development capabilities, the new platform gets access to proprietary deal flow from multitenant assets, larger scale sale leaseback transactions with national tenants, blended extensions of shorter term leases on strong real estate, remerchandising of expiring leases, and build to suit opportunities.

The net lease platform and our R2G joint venture should allow us to grow AUM and expand in target markets faster than we could do on our own. Our joint ventures also add a new sustainable and diversified cash flow stream to RPT and we believe will improve our FFO growth profile by enhancing our returns and increasing the economic spread on our deployed capital as we take advantage of the valuation dislocations I mentioned earlier.

As we previously noted, the $151 million initial seed sale to RGMZ will close in tranches over the course of 2021. The first tranche of 13 parcels closed on March 5 for just over $36 million. I won't go into all the transactional details, but overall, we couldn't be more excited about the net lease platform. More information is available in our press release announcing the deal and in a separate RGMZ investor presentation, which both are available on our website.

Our Northborough Crossing deal on the Boston MSA that's currently under contract for $104 million is a perfect example of what we are trying to achieve with the net lease platform. Here, we are buying a premier shopping center that upon close will be accretive to RPT's earnings from day one. But by selling parcels to RGMZ, we have the opportunity to materially lower our basis and enhance our yield.

Our expectations are that we could sell up to $75 million of the center to RGMZ resulting in a significantly reduced basis for RPT. Consistent with our thesis regarding the value dislocation between multitenant and net lease properties, our effective acquisition yield on the retained multitenant asset could improve by up to 300 basis points after the acquisition and parcelization process is closed.

There is real synergy between RPT and the new platform that benefits both sides in a way that is difficult to replicate. For RGMZ, they get access to high quality tenants in a location with household incomes of about $148,000 that no other triple net investor has access to. For RPT, we gain entry into the attractive Boston MSA on a deal that we would likely have passed on without the potential parcel sales to RGMZ.

Equally important is that, as the net lease platform's manager, RPT maintains equal control of the net lease components of the center. This type of control is not available to multitenant owners that sell pads to unaffiliated entities. The synergies of the two platforms give us a unique opportunity that we believe will result in outside future earnings growth. We look forward to providing more details on the Northborough and subsequent parcel sales over the next several weeks.

Turning to our acquisition pipeline, since we announced our net lease platform, we have engaged with many of you and a consistent question that comes up is how quickly we can deploy the capital raised at both our RGMZ and R2G joint ventures. Keep in mind that while we only recently announced RGMZ, we had been working on the deal for almost a year and we're actively cultivating an investment pipeline throughout the pandemic.

Our ability to go to contract on Northborough so quickly after closing the new JV is a testament to the strong groundwork that was laid over the past year. Additionally, we are in active contract negotiations in several other deals and have embedded a total of $100 million of net acquisitions at our pro rata share and after parcel sales to RGMZ into our guidance. We remain optimistic that we will be able to deploy the vast majority of our current cash and future proceeds from the rest of the net lease platform seed – sale by year end, reflecting about $150 million of upside to what is currently reflected in our guidance range.

We are currently tracking a diverse pipeline of over $2 billion in markets like Boston, Atlanta, Tampa, Nashville, Miami, Jacksonville and Orlando. Pipeline consists of RPT, R2G and RGMZ deals runs the gamut from single property locally-owned deals to institutionally owned portfolios. The tie that binds each of these deals is the durability of underlying property cash flows and our ability to grow future NOI by buying under market rents or properties with redevelopment opportunities.

Tyler Sorenson, who is heading up acquisitions for the net lease platform, brings a wealth of experience to RPT that we believe will further accelerate our net lease acquisition program and our pipeline. Last quarter, we outlined 11 remerchandising opportunities consisting of [ph] re-demising (00:10:45), expansions or combinations. While the exact lists will fluctuate as deals move into and out of the pipeline, these larger leasing deals continue to reflect the best risk adjusted use of our capital and we will allocate accordingly.

We have made very good progress since last quarter, with a grocery deal at Troy Marketplace moving from the shadow pipeline to the active pipeline. Three other projects were also added this quarter bringing the total in progress pipeline to over $13 million with expected returns in the high single digits. It's no secret that COVID-19 put pressure on certain experiential tenants, but as I noted earlier, this pressure has created opportunities as was the case at our Troy Marketplace property outside of Detroit.

Troy Marketplace is a dominant power center that has maintained a high level of occupancy throughout the pandemic was 97% leased at quarter end. Because of COVID's impact on a recreation tenant we're able to get the space back without a buyout and replace them with a new premier first estate investment grade grocer. We were able to generate an 88% rent spread on the new lease.

Although the incremental return on capital is tighter than our typical underwriting, we believe that attracting a premier grocer at this already strong center will create significant value via cap rate compression of almost 200 basis points and position the asset for success for years to come. As I've previously said we see a lot of value creation from the addition of a grocery component to these credit centers and we're looking forward to executing more of these.

We also continue to see strong leasing demand from our former Stein Mart space in St. Louis and are now in lease negotiation with a leading retailer. At Winchester in Detroit, we are finalizing a lease with a quality of national off price tenant to take our only other Stein Mart box. Florida has continued to be a robust leasing market for RPT. We're seeing great activity across the board at our centers within the state and are close to deals that will significantly upgrade the tenant credit at West Broward and Shoppes of Lakeland. There is also strong demand at the Marketplace of Delray, which is creating friction at this property that could result in a significant improvement in the tenant mix.

Before I turn the call over to Mike, I wanted to touch on our development program. As we continue to move past the heart of the pandemic, we are again revisiting our development program we had put on hold pre-COVID-19. Although we are still not ready to put shovels in the ground just yet. We have reengaged with potential partners on a few of our properties that we previously flagged for potential residential use in Florida.

We are seeing extremely strong demand for residential at both River City and Parkway Shops in Jacksonville. I sort of stated in the past, although the highest and best use of certain parts of our centers may not be retail, we will remain focused on our core retail competencies and we'll look to monetize non-retail components through ground leases, land sales or potentially even land contributions into partnerships with leading residential players to retain some future upside.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.

Thanks, Brian. And good morning, everyone. Today, I will discuss our first quarter results, our strong balance sheet and liquidity position and I will commentary on our updated guidance. First quarter operating FFO per share of $0.19 was up $0.01 versus last quarter, driven by our improving rent collections as we experienced a decline in rent not probable of collection and abatement, which totaled $3.2 million in the quarter, down from $4.4 million last quarter.

Further, as disclosed on page 33 of our supplemental, our first quarter rental income excluding prior year amounts, has ticked up since last quarter and is now only down 5% from first quarter 2020 despite the continued non-payment of our theater tenants who have remained closed since the onset of the pandemic. Our four Regals are slated to open in late May and account for about 75% of our total theater exposure. Given Regal's reopening plans and recent liquidity infusions, we expect in our forecasting resumption of rent payments in the next few weeks.

We continue to take a conservative stance with uncollected rent and have reserved nearly 80% of our uncollected first quarter recurring billings. Additionally, we effectively have no exposure to tenants in bankruptcy left in the portfolio. As of quarter end, $18 million of our recurring billings for the trailing 12 months remain outstanding, of which $12 million has been reserved with majority of the $6 million balance expected to be repaid over the course of 2021 and 2022.

Operationally, we continue to execute and put runs in the board. We started 2021 on a high note, signing 62 deals in the quarter covering 556,000 square feet. This was the highest number of deals signed in a quarter in almost two years. Blended rent spreads were up 9% as we achieved a 51% comparable new lease spread, our best quarterly spread in almost three years, driven by our Troy Marketplace grocer deal that Brian previously noted.

While the TI related to this deal was upsized, it was more than offset by the value of nearly $20 million that was created by cap rate compression. Excluding this deal, our new lease spread would have been up 26%, highlighting a solid broad based demand and mark-to-market opportunities in our portfolio. Our renewal spreads also continue to improve, up 3.9% making it third consecutive quarter of improving renewal spreads.

Given our strong leasing activity, we ended the first quarter with a signed not open backlog of $3.3 million, the majority of which will come online over the next 12 months. We also have a full pipeline of deals with over $2 million of leases in advanced legal negotiations. Additionally, as Brian touched on, we've identified several remerchandising deals that would generate well into double digit return on costs in addition to cap rate compression across certain properties. In the spirit of transparency, we have outlined these active and pipeline remerchandising opportunities transparency we have outlined these active and pipeline merchandizing opportunities on page 19 and 20 of our supplemental.

Our equity for the quarter was 90.6%, down 90 basis points sequentially due primarily to the proactive and planned recapture of our space at our Troy Marketplace and West Broward properties that will facilitate new grocery deals. Give the lack of bankruptcy exposure in our portfolio, our signed not open backlog, our robust leasing pipeline, and our remerchandising opportunities, we believe occupancy has troughed and expected to track upward over the next several quarters as we march towards re-stabilization of our portfolio.

The closing of the first tranche of initial seeds out to our net leas platform benefited both our leverage and liquidity levels in the quarter. We ended the first quarter with net debt-to-NOIs adjusted EBITDA of 7.2 times, down from 7.6 times last quarter. Looking forward, we continue to target leverage in the 5.5 to 6.5 times range which will be driven by the normalization of EBITDA as the impacts of COVID-19 reverse course in 2021 and 2022, the stabilization of our portfolio, and as future tranches of the RGMZ seeds close in 2021. However, it is important to keep in mind that the timing of acquisitions and subsequent net lease parcel sales may have a temporary impact on reported quarterly leverage levels.

From a liquidity perspective, we ended first quarter with a cash balance of $143 million and our fully-unused $350 million unsecured line of credit. Including the expected proceeds from the remaining RGMZ seed sales, our pro forma cash balance would be about $250 million. In short, we have a war chest of cash and a deep acquisition pipeline that we expect will generate strong external growth for RPT shareholders.

Regarding our pending debt maturities through 2022, we have just one $37 million private placement note that matures in June and a $52 million mortgage that's pre-payable starting in November and carries an above market 5.7% interest rate. Based on positive feedback from our unsecured debt partners, we expect to refinance both these notes later this year. However, given our strong liquidity position and as an interim step, we may repay our $37 million private placement note due in June ahead of our expected refinancing. As with any debt issuance, we look to maintain a flat maturity ladder with a goal of having no more than 15% of our debt stack maturing in any given year.

The last topic I want to touch on is our updated 2021 OFFO per share guidance of $0.81 to $0.89, which is up $0.03 at the midpoint of our prior guidance range of $0.77 to $0.87. Our updated range includes the impact from the sale of remaining tranches of initial RGMZ [indiscernible] (00:20:36). Also assumed in our forecasts are $100 million of net acquisitions at our pro rata share. Included in this assumption is the gross purchase price of Northborough that is expected to close in the second quarter. However, it's important to again note that we expect to sell certain net lease parcels at Northborough to RGMZ in the fourth quarter that will lower basis as Brian mentioned.

The net impact of the initial seed sales and net acquisition activity of $100 million is expected to add $0.02 of upside relative to the midpoint of prior guidance. The other $0.01 of upside stems from outperformance in the first quarter that we are now projecting in future periods. Like last quarter, the range around the midpoint of our updated guidance is largely driven by our performance in the bad debt front, particularly from our theaters. Also, it should be noted that our guidance does not include any assumptions of recovery for prior period bad debt or straight line rent reserves. And lastly, although we have $100 million of net acquisitions formally built into guidance, we believe we can deploy as much as $250 million into opportunistic acquisitions within our target markets that meet our disciplined underwriting standards, representing upside into our guidance range.

And with that, I'll turn the call back to the operator to open the line for questions.

Thank you. At this time, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Derek Johnston with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, everybody. Good morning. Thanks for the details on the RGMZ in the opening. But Brian, what's the criteria and how do you decide which basket or platform to utilize for acquisitions either on balance sheet or within the JV as you now have three strong partners? How do the mandates vary and how do you envision the mix unfolding?

Great. Hi, Derek, and good morning and thank you for that question. So really since December of 2019, in equity basis alone we've raised $800 million of committed capital for our investments. This was done to transform the footprint and portfolio of the company. And really for the following three points, one, diversified cash flow investment grade and growth; two, increase AUM accretively; three, deploy growth capital into higher growth assets.

We did bring in, in early 2020 a data scientist that had set up a proprietary asset management scoring card model that will help us be disciplined in our acquisitions. So really the way I would think about this is, we have balance sheet, R2G, which is the GIC JV, and the new net lease platform, all with a very disciplined focus. And the way I would think about the cadence would be the 2:1 ratio between balance sheet and our JVs.

And really, if you look at Northborough as a balance sheet in RGMZ deal as an example, we are roughly buying Northborough at a seven cap, day one accretive. We spent $75 million to RGMZ and RPT is left with a 10% yield once the two new TJX concepts open, the center sits in a very high barrier to entry market with $148,000 household income. It was the first Wegmans in the state and now number one Wegmans in the Boston MSA. [ph] TJ's (00:24:44) and all the tenants do extremely well as well.

Post spin, we are left with 50% [ph] IG, four TJ (00:24:50) concepts at a 10% yield, that is extremely compelling for our balance sheet and extremely compelling to our investors. R2G is focused on core grocery. As mentioned previously the fees associated with this JV are roughly 50 bps, which obviously helps with the pricing. These are core grocery centers in our strategic markets with a top sovereign wealth as our partner. And then RGMZ, as I mentioned in our prepared remarks, in addition to being a complementary partner with a balance sheet, we are focused on build to suits, sale leasebacks, blend and extend and one-off buys.

You blend all these platforms together Derek, and it forms a consortium that can syndicate in a very, very unique way for a REIT. There will be one-off buys and I wouldn't be surprised if you see several portfolio deals that could be syndicated to all three platforms. So we are focused on the three but really see this as a 2:1 ratio for balance sheet versus our JVs.

Great color. Thank you. Just two quick ones. The 140 basis point drop in small shop occupancy was pretty noticeable acceleration from previous quarters. I guess, simply, what drove this decrease?

Yeah. Derek this is Mike. What drove that decrease is there's a seasonal move-out. This is a smattering tenants. And then number two, as we noted in the release we just sell the first tranche with an initial fee of about $40 million the triple net assets that contributed to our net lease platform, that also contributed about 10 or 20 basis points of deceleration in the occupancy rate for small shops.

Okay. Great.

But we didn't see that drop in this quarter Derek for small shop and total occupancy and see it moderately ticking up over the year as we continue to re-stabilize portfolio.

Okay. Okay. Makes sense. And then, just TIs came in pretty high at $124 per square foot, I mean we're assuming it's a big box transition to a grocer but can you just let us know what the actual drivers behind this were?

Yeah. Absolutely. I think you just alluded to it. You're spot on. It had to do with the grocer deal that we did in the Detroit market, the [indiscernible] (00:27:33) market, high quality credit grocer that we can't name right now, but hopefully at some point we can name in the future. It was tied to [indiscernible] (00:27:41) deal. And whenever you're doing a lease transaction or you're taking a non-grocer space to a grocer space or whether you're [indiscernible] (00:27:50) space or you're combining space is you're going to have higher TI cost. But the great thing with this deal is, one, the rent spread was about 90% or so; and then two, we increased the value of property by about 200 basis points in terms of cap rate compression which created about $20 million of value for that center. So great value creation for the company.

And Derek we're excited to get the name out when we're allowed to. And really this was as I said in the prepared remarks, I mean this is one of the positives of COVID of where – since I've been here, I've been trying to get at this space which was $8.30 gross. Two combined spaces creating roughly a 40,000 square foot flagship investment grade first to state grocer which we are extremely excited about.

Excellent. Thank you, everyone.

Thanks, Derek.

Thanks, Derek.

Our next question comes from Todd Thomas with KeyBanc Capital. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Thanks. Good morning. First question, Mike, just a clarification around the guidance. The one [indiscernible] (00:29:04) outperformance for the quarter, I think that you outlined the guidance provision, I think you may say that that's not recurring. What's that attributable to [indiscernible] (00:29:13) can you just clarify that perhaps?

Yeah. It's primarily due to prior year adjustments related to recovery billings associated with our [indiscernible] (00:29:21) tax billing.

Okay. And then with [Technical Difficulty] (00:29:28) that offset sort of operationally that offset I guess the improved outlook to some extent and it's sounds like the outlook has [Technical Difficulty] (00:29:37-00:29:42) expected to begin paying rent which I think is a little bit earlier than previously anticipated. I'm curious if they're the [Technical Difficulty] (00:29:51) recaptures or otherwise that was not previously anticipated.

Look, I think the outlook is slightly better for bad debt, we did better than expected during the quarter relative to our own expectations, plus signed not commenced continues to tick up a bit. We're going to have probably relative to the first quarter, Todd, you'll have about $0.02 of upside in base rent from signed not commenced and based on our expectations today, again relative to the first quarter run rate you'll have about $0.03 of upside in bad debt and a more favorable bad debt and less abatement, essentially tied to the theaters, for Regal Theaters, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, they're going to be opening up in a few weeks and it's our expectation based on our discussions with them, the deal that we struck, that they're going to be paying contract rent second half of the year.

Okay. That's helpful. And then Brian, in terms of competition for some of these larger assets, perhaps I guess Northborough deal for example, there's been a lack of transaction activity in some of these sectors over the last couple of years really. Are you seeing any change in demand for these assets or do you feel that you have [audio gap] (00:31:16) properties and to execute without much outside competition, how...

Yeah. Todd, competition no doubt has picked up. The debt markets have opened and competition is there. I think our advantage was we've been cultivating this pipeline since May of 2020 when we knew and had an idea that this RGMZ platform was going to go into fruition. So this was a deal that was marketed pre-COVID and was purchased on an off-market deal. There's a lot of others in the pipeline that are true off-markets, some are with institutions in larger portfolio deals where we could potentially syndicate between [indiscernible] (00:32:09) balance sheet GIC platform and RGMZ. And we're a credible buyer because of that.

And I think that when we show up for an acquisition we now have that arrow that no one else has and that can help with pricing as well. So the way I look at Northborough where extremely high barrier to entry with top performing tenants in the MSA, we have more of those in the pipeline and the pipeline is becoming clearer every day. And as we said, we fully expect to be – to surpass our guidance on the acquisitions.

Okay. Where do you think – as you mentioned, a 7% cap rate on Northborough, has that changed at all compared to where it would have been pre-pandemic I guess? And how do you think pricing [Technical Difficulty] (00:33:14)?

I think it hang around the rim. Obviously, the movement is essential triple net [indiscernible] (00:33:25) and that's a very, very competitive world right now. And when you look at the attractive debt you can get on a lot of those assets, that's opened up a lot of I mean an unlimited supply of liquidity at that space. So I think the center kind of hung in but definitely saw some cap rate compression in that kind of a essential [indiscernible] (00:33:54) and I think our platform and the investors are getting at a very, very attractive yield as well.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Craig Schmidt with Bank of America. Please proceed.

Great. Thank you. I'm just wondering, do you think there's a good chance or probability that someone else will replicate your net lease platform or do you have some advantages that you don't think that they can replicate?

Yeah. I think Craig the interesting thing is this has been going on for 40 years, right, and in the private markets. I mean, when you look at developers and selling off to [ph] what the land off (00:34:45) to Wal-Mart or Target with the pads and building the small shop with the boxes, this has been going on in the private world for a while. What this does in the public space is give investors that access and that availability to achieve very, very attractive yields.

I think this certainly could be replicated. I think it would be difficult. I think the combination of GIC, Monarch and Zimmer together is difficult to replicate. This was a year in the making and this was something that took a long time and our pipeline is large and we've got off to a very, very quick start which we knew and paid a lot of attention to it as we were cultivating the deal in the first place.

Yeah, the second thing I would add there is control Craig. We have 6.4% interest in this net lease platform, that's asymmetrical to our control rates. We have equal volume rate and leasing redevelopment, buying, selling, we have [indiscernible] (00:35:54) on the net lease components. So we really control the value creation on the net lease side of the asset and also the [indiscernible] (00:36:02) RPT balance sheet. So that's very unique and I think it's also hard to replicate that you don't see with other recent – in our space.

Okay. Thank you. And then I guess at River City Marketplace, if you're re-tenanting a vacancy with a national fitness center maybe you can tell us what you've seen in that format that's got you comfortable to re-tenant to it?

Yeah. I mean, I think I mean it depends on the market and it depends on the credit and the tenants. I mean personally I'm pretty comfortable with your LA Fitness-es and some of the boutiques as well as Planet in certain markets. It's a case by case, it's understanding the competition in that market. We have seen – particularly in Florida, a good snap back with the health and fitness concepts. And they're seeing good levels of traffic. So we're seeing boots on the ground, all of our assets good activity in certain parts of the country as of regards to fitness thankfully.

Thank you.

Yes. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Linda Tsai with Jefferies. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning. It looks like net debt to EBITDA came down this quarter as EBITDA improved. How do you expect this to change as you continue to deploy cash proceeds, your RGMZ tranches closing and future parcelizations, how much could this metric bounce around over the next two quarters?

Sure. Good morning, Linda. [indiscernible] (00:37:49) the call. One, to just level set everybody that our long term target range is 5.5 to 6.5 times. Also important to note, given the strategic joint ventures that we completed over the last 15 months, the $250 million of [indiscernible] (00:28:03) capital that we raised, the opportunity to redeploy this in a high single digit cap rate, it really gives us that extra lever to get to that 5.5 to 6.5 times much, much quicker than we would have without the power of platforms as we say often around here.

So that said, we are at 7.2 times today that you just noted, Linda. That will trend downward over time as we return to stabilization of the portfolio and we execute on our external growth opportunities. But as we kind of point out, it will be choppy quarter-to-quarter. Northborough is a great example, we put that on our balance sheet in the second quarter, just over $100 million or so. So you're going to see our leverage tick up likely in the second quarter. But then once we sell those [indiscernible] (00:38:57) components of the center up to $75 million as Brian noted in his prepared remarks, later in the year leverage will tick back down.

Thanks. And then, just given the improving environment you have better visibility on when occupancy might trough?

Yeah. Look, I think we're pretty close to that. [indiscernible] (00:39:18) we think it's troughed here in the first quarter and we think it'll tick up over time. And 2021 right where we started the year at about 91.5% or so. And Linda, it's important to note that that's absent any transactions that we complete over the next call it nine months here. We are going to be a net acquirer as we disclosed in our guidance that we're going to be acquiring about $100 million or so. And then we are selling about $150 million or so with a net lease box, that was 98% occupied.

Someone alluded to the occupancy, but all the assets that we're looking at within our pipeline that Brian talked in great detail here in Q&A and the prepared remarks, those centers are 94% or 95% occupied so very accretive to where we stand today. So that'll be a moving target that will impact occupancy. Organically again, 91.5% over the year.

And just organically Linda, I've got pretty good visibility, very good visibility on the pipeline. And I mean [indiscernible] (00:40:36) with grocer, medical, fast casual and QSR restaurants, discount apparel, wholesale has never been stronger since we've been here, and that is including when we put up the sector leading results in 2020 [indiscernible] (00:40:56) 2019 and spending really a lot of time with the essential tenants, home improvements, wholesale. And really, there's a lot of local and regional operators with entrepreneurial spirit are showing up and they're seeing this as a chance to expand their reach, or in some cases start something new for more of the small shops. So we're seeing robust demand in all parts of our organization.

Thanks for that.

Yeah. Thanks, Linda.

Our next question comes from Floris van Dijkum with Compass Point. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Obviously, I know that you guys have been very innovative here in accessing capital through the various JVs that you've created. It does complicate things for investors a little bit. So I guess that the owners will be on you to explain that very well and you've done a nice job so far. Just curious though, Brian, maybe if you can – it appears that some of the lower growth portions of your portfolio will go into some of these JVs, so I'm thinking grocery anchored and certainly the net lease segments. As you look out five years, where do you see your small shop percentage as a percentage of the overall space in RPT? Will that go up significantly and does that make your long-term growth rate obviously significantly higher than what it's been historically? Maybe if you can give some more color on how you see the company evolving over time.

Yeah. And this was part of – the recipe is to increase small shop and the battleships of huge credit are parked in a battleship garage with our venture. And to give you kind of context, Northborough pre – or pre-spin, if you will, 15% small shop; post-spin, 35%, 36% small shop. That 36% small shop has much more contractual rent increases. So we see, Floris, a much more robust growth trajectory organically and obviously externally for the company. And that this is simply syndicating really growth between the two platforms.

Yeah. So today our small shop percentage basis of ABR Floris is low 40%. This will over time as we execute on the strategy and continue to transform the portfolio and break these assets up between platforms, they'll get north of 50%, which will correlate into much, much better contractual rent increases as part of our growth profile and move forward. Today, there are about a 125 basis point contribution to our NOI growth profile. We see this based on trajectory in front of us and the assets that we're buying. We could get to 200 basis points over time and then you layer on the mark-to-market opportunity that we've been experiencing in the portfolio for since we've been here since June of 2018 and that's another 1% or so. So you're well north of – could be well north of 3% on an annual basis, which is outsized relative to our peer set.

Thanks, guys. And then maybe just to follow up on that particular – why stop at 50% of ABR. Why would you not [indiscernible] (00:44:56) 70% or 80% of ABR or 50% of your total space being small shop space down the road?

Yeah. Look, I think it comes down to risk management. I think if you have too much small shop, which are short term leases, less national tenants, you might have disruption on cash flow. So I think 50% at this point is a good target in terms of a risk adjusted growth profile that we look to attain.

Floris, we're not managing to a number though. I mean this is going to be done asset by asset over time and building by – with growth in mind, balance with credit in mind to put us on a long-term trajectory for what we believe will be sector-leading growth.

Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, Floris.

Our next question comes from Mike Mueller with JPMorgan. Please proceed.

Yeah. Hi. I just wanted to touch on guidance here for a second. So I think you're talking about the theaters starting to pay again and that's obviously a big portion of the reserve. So when you're looking at guidance, what's baked in there for I guess the reserves tied to the theaters that are going to start to pay rents later this month?

Yeah. If you look at what we experienced in the first quarter, Mike, like I said with about $3.2 million which was $2.6 million of bad debt [indiscernible] (00:46:25) of abatements, 60% of that was tied to the theaters. And so, we – I think they're going to be opening up mid-May here. So we'll have about quarter and a half of some form of payment. So you're going to see the acceleration in the second quarter in the bad debt line item, and then a further bigger deceleration in the second half of the year as they get to full rents based on expectation. And if you look at – other way to look at it to, Mike, is if you look at our quarterly run rate, base that on Q1, we'll have about a $0.03 pickup from bad debt over the course of the year.

Got it. Okay. So basically, as they start to pay that bad debt is going to go away and hit the numbers. Okay.

Yeah. That's correct.

Got it. Okay. That was it. Thank you.

You bet.

Thank you. Our next question comes from RJ Milligan with Raymond James. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning, guys. I was wondering if you can give a little bit more detail on what exactly at Northborough you expect to parcel off and what the expected cap rate is or what is cap rate for the parcels you do expect to sell?

RJ, we'll provide more color after we close. Just, obviously, since we haven't closed, we just don't want to get into what cap rate is where and what tenant is going, staying, leaving. So we'll provide some more color in the next few weeks.

Yeah. And in terms of the impact to guidance of – relative to our midpoint that we provided in our fourth quarter called out to now it's about $0.04 pickup. But I guess we're happy to – once we close the asset on the entire center then we sell the pocket components to the platform we'll talk through obviously at that point what we sold and our thesis and our rationale on the – more rationale on the transaction.

Okay. And then, maybe just thinking about longer term, after parceling off some of these just probably more investment grade or anchored type tenants, can you talk about the value that you expect to be left with for the remaining property? How does that impact the desirability of potential future buyers? What kind of cap rate? So you mentioned getting to a 10% yield on the remaining. What do you think you could sell that for?

I mean I think it actually cap rate compresses tremendously. We bought Austin, Lake Hills in Austin December of 2019, shadow anchor target in one of the best intersections in the city for [ph] 5.5 cap, within on the (00:49:27) target box. It was 4% NOI CAGR, 27% ABR in a $42 market. What we would have left at Northborough still is over roughly 50% investment grade with four TJX concepts, Ulta small shop, Old Navy. So we feel very bullish and we feel that it could be a great cap rated in compression, just because of the more liquidity and high investment grade tenancy.

Okay. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, RJ.

Our next question comes from Peter Hermann with Baird. Please proceed.

Hey, everyone. How many more opportunities are there to capture spaces like you did in Detroit this quarter? And would the CapEx requirements be as high as they were with these opportunities? Thank you.

Thanks. There's a lot. And some of those – a lot of these spaces were old, tired, neglected spaces that were, call it, mid-single digit rent. I'm staring at one in West Broward at $6.13, that's not going to be as high of a TA, because that's a grocer taking one existing box. The elevated costs for the deal in Troy was really a lot of the combination of the two spaces, creating a 40,000 square foot flagship. Looking at another office support – office supply store that we're looking at, at combining another space of which is currently a vacancy, those combined spaces are $11. And we expect to get, call it, close to low 20s in rent from the new tenant. So we don't see this type of costs as higher costs, but we feel it's a lot of value upside on the rent and really cap rate compression of adding these grocers.

That's helpful. Thank you.

Thank you.

There are no further questions in queue at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Brian Harper for closing remarks.

Yeah. I just appreciate everybody's time. Thank you all for listening and looking forward to hopefully seeing many of you physically for the first time in quite some time. Thank you all.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation, have a great day.