raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is April and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I


would like to welcome everyone to the Ramco-Gershenson Second Quarter Earnings Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions] Ms. Hendershot, you may begin your conference.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust’s Second


Quarter Conference Call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and


supplemental financial package, which are available on our website at www.rgpt.com.


At this time, management would like me to inform you that certain statements made during this


conference call, which are not historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Although Ramco-Gershenson


believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable


assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. Factors and risks that


could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed in the press release and from


time to time in the company’s filings with the SEC. Additionally, we want to let everyone know that


the information and statements made during the call are made as of the date of this call. Listeners


to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality of the


statements made. Also, the contents of the call are the property of the company and any replay or


transmission of the call may be done only with the consent of Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust.


Having said that, I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President and Chief Executive


Officer, and Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer, and at this time I would like to turn the call over


to Dennis for his opening remarks


Dennis E. Gershenson, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dawn. Good morning and thank you for joining us. We’re obviously pleased to report a


strong quarter that includes an FFO number that exceeds first call estimates, the continuation of a


four plus percent dividend increase and healthy operational statistics. FFO for the quarter was


$0.63. This number reflects conservative FFO and FAD payout ratios of 69% and 75.6%


respectively. Another important overall marker of performance is our same center growth statistics


which shows a 6.5% increase. This number was helped by several termination feels paid during


the quarter. If we eliminate the other income category, same center comparisons show growth of


over 2% which occurred without any significant contribution from our redevelopments.


On the operational side of our business, we are experiencing an acceleration of lease signings at


rental rates comfortably above portfolio averages. During the quarter, 28 retailers opened stores in


over 90,000 square feet at rental rates of over 13% above portfolio averages. We also renewed 19


leases at expiration. The effective average rental rate for the tenant renewals, as shown in the


supplement, is skewed as the result of the renewing one 8,600 square foot destination user’s lease


at $17 per square foot when they were paying $23 per square foot prior to expiration. The retailer


was deemed beneficial to the tenant mix and as this one space represented approximately 15% of


the square footage renewed, it had a substantial impact on the average. Excluding this one tenant,


whose rent by the way of $17 per square for 8,600 square feet is still significant, renewals for the


quarter showed a 7.3% increase above prior rates. The one anchor lease renewed for the quarter


was a Kmart lease whose rental rate is less than $3.00 per square foot. Also on the operational
raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


front, please take note of our expense recovery ratio. This number of 97.5% for the quarter


continues the company’s history of strong property expense recovery ratios. These strong ratios


help insulate our income growth from the effects of operational expense fluctuations.


Still in the area of asset management we continue to complete and initiate redevelopments as


opportunities arise. The two projects just completed represent the stabilization of both centers


which had originally been anchored by undersized Wal-Marts. The completion of the releasing of


the Wal-Mart store at Indian Hills with the inclusion of the Goodies department store and the


expansion of the Wal-Mart in Greenville, South Carolina, to a superstore, speaks volumes about


the ongoing viability of these centers’ locations. The newly announced re-tenanting of the vacant


Wal-Mart in Crossville, Tennessee, by People’s department store, and the lease with Dollar


General Markets in Lenore City also validates our centers, especially those that are located in


smaller markets. These last two retailers, People’s in 20,000 square feet and Dollar General


Markets in 29,000 square feet, along with no less than three additional mid-box and anchor


retailers, who will be announced in the next 90 days, will convert over 200,000 square feet from the


vacant category to leased. These additions plus the increasing velocity of our smaller tenant


signings are expected to move our occupancy figure into the mid-90s by year end.


Our acquisition team made one purchase during the second quarter; the Millennium Park in


Livonia, Michigan, a suburb of metropolitan Detroit. The shopping center was purchased as part of


our joint venture with the Clarion Lion Properties Fund. This 276,000 square foot center is


anchored by Home Depot, Linens-N-Things, Michaels’, Marshalls and PETsMART. Shadow


anchors include Meijer and Cosco. A significant plus for the acquisition is an undeveloped inline


pad which will accommodate a future user of up to 30,000 square feet. The Millennium asset


purchase reflects a unique advantage we bring to our off balance sheet investments. That is while


the mantra where our joint venture investment criteria is the purchase of stable, well-anchored


assets in metropolitan markets, we are able to store shopping centers that fit these requirements


while affording the partnership the ability to achieve above average growth through value added


opportunities. Millennium is just one of the no less than three centers purchased for our venture


that have the potential for additional upside through center expansion. Some of these


improvements are already in the planning stages.
 
Including the Millennium asset, we have


acquired 10 shopping centers for our joint venture in less than 6 months investing over 70% of the


venture’s total agreed upon commitment.


Our development team continues to make progress on our Jacksonville, Florida project as they


move toward completing both our Gains Marketplace and Beacon Square Centers. At Gains


Marketplace in Grand Rapids, we are 98% leased and at Beacon Square we have only two


ancillary store locations left to fill. As I assume you are aware, we have announced the signing of


Wallace Theatres and PETsMART for Jacksonville. We are in the cusp of signing three additional


national anchor retailers for the project and we continue to anticipate an opening of the center in


the first half of 2006.


As we move through our 2005 business plan, which includes our redevelopments, acquisitions for


joint ventures and completion of our development projects, the capital requirements for these


endeavors have raised questions from investors and analysts as to how we will satisfy this need. I


can tell you that we are presently finalizing a package of shopping centers for sale that we believe


are fully valued and/or that no longer fit the demographic profile we would pursue going forward.


The sale of these assets is intended to fund our capital needs for our existing business plan.


I would now like to turn this call over to Rick Smith who will discuss the financial details of the


quarter.