raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Kiwi [ph] and I will be your conference operator today. At


this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Ramco-Gershenson’s First Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Ms. Hendershot, you may begin your


conference.


Dawn Hendershot, Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us for Ramco-Gershenson Properties Trust first quarter


conference call. I am hopeful that everyone received their press release and supplemental


financial package, which are available on our website at rgpt.com. At this time, management would


like me to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call, which are not


historical, may be deemed forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Although Ramco-Gershenson believes the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements


are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be


obtained. Factors and risks that could cause actual results to differ from expectations are detailed


in the press release and from time to time in the company’s filings with the SEC. Additionally, we


want to let everyone know that the information and statements made during the call are made as of


the date of this call.


Listeners to any replay should understand that the passage of time by itself will diminish the quality


of the statements made. Also, the contents of the call are the property of the company and any


replay or transmission of the call may be done only with the consent of Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust. Having said that, I would now like to introduce Dennis Gershenson, President


and Chief Executive Officer, and Richard Smith, Chief Financial Officer, and at this time would like


to turn the call over to Dennis for his opening remarks.


Dennis E. Gershenson, President, Chief Executive Officer and Trustee


Thank you Dawn. Good morning. We are pleased that you could join us for our first quarter


conference call. For the three months ending March 31st, our funds from operations were $0.62.


Our FFO ratio of 71.7% and FAD ratio of 79.6%, indicate a comfortable margin for our recently


announced dividend increase. Although we didn’t make an acquisition in the first quarter, our team


completed the sale of 7 shopping centers. The sale of these centers are important for several


reasons. First, they represent the bottom 10% of our asset base. By that I mean that they were the


most vulnerable shopping centers to anchor relocations.


Their limited population base and income levels, made the trade areas and our centers more


susceptible to economic shifts. And because of these two factors, there was an increased risk of


retailers being hesitant to enter these markets. If Wal-Mart who was an undersized anchor in


several of these centers relocated, not nearly next door but across town, the entire retail focus in


that community changes. Further, if one of our mid-box tenants closed or the supermarket moved


or closed, it would be much more problematic to re-energize these centers. When the average


community size equal 37,000 people and the average household income was $48,000, several


thousands of dollars below the national average.
raw transcript


Ramco-Gershenson


Properties Trust
 
RPT
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We have with these sales reinforced our focus on metropolitan markets, where there is a wide


breadth of anchor tenant opportunities, where in good times and challenging periods shopping


centers typically fare better there than in smaller markets and where trade [ph] values and cap


rates are traditionally much higher. It was our conclusion that in addition to these factors the cap


rates in tertiary markets having never been lower now is an appropriate time to liquidate this


segment of our portfolio generating profits and producing capital for our 2006 business plan. These


sales are the first step in a strengthening of our core portfolio, while also producing needed capital


and reducing debt.


We are well aware of our debt ratios and are moving to execute on our options to bring this metric


more inline with our peers. If you have been following our press releases in the first quarter, you


know that we announced the signing of 4 additional anchor retailers in our River City marketplace in


Jacksonville, Florida. Michael's, Old Navy, OfficeMax and Bed, Bath & Beyond have joined


PetSmart, Hollywood Theaters and Ross Dress for Less as tenants in this development. We also


announced the sale of a 17-acre parcel to Lowe's Home Improvement who joins a Wal-Mart


Superstore as the primary anchors for their shopping center.


In total, our 9 major retailers account for over 565,000 square feet. Additionally, we have leased


over 100,000 square feet of ancillary retail space in the project. Wal-Mart will open in May, and the


balance of our anchors will open throughout this summer and into the fall. In the area of asset


management, we were pleased to announce that leases were signed with PetSmart in 37,000


square feet, and Best Buy in 44,000 square feet to replace Circuit City and Media Play at our Tel-


Twelve shopping center.


You will remember that we terminated the leases with Circuit City and Media Play in the second


and third quarters of 2005. Our new anchors at this 550,000 square foot shopping center improved


its tenants mix, raw and credit quality. Including Tel-Twelve, as of the end of the first quarter, we


were actively engaged in the redevelopment of seven shopping centers. These activities while


having a short-term negative impact on FFO, demonstrate the continued appeal of our shopping


center locations for new retailers entering our trade areas, and the success of our existing retailers


who wish to expand.


Each improvement produces a positive change to the shopping center’s net asset value. Some


investors have suggested that we consider slowing the pace of these REIT developments, which


are value-added as they create a drag on the growth in FFO. Our history in this industry has taught


us that if one does not strike while the iron is hot, tomorrow someone else may have stolen our fire.


On the leasing front, significant improvement has been made. We renewed the leases of 67


ancillary tenants, achieving an average 9.5% increase over prior rentals. And we extended 5


anchor leases, achieving a 12% increase. We also signed 20 new non-anchor retailers at an


average rental rate of $17.05 or 14% above our portfolio average. Further, we signed 2 new


anchor leases at a rate significantly above our anchor portfolio average. In fairness however, this


statistic must be viewed in light of my prior comments in past calls on anchor averages.


As our anchor statistics include both building and land leases when we signed building leases only,


and we report this number in that particular quarter then it will tend to be higher, as when we signed


only anchor leases that are land leases, we will fall below that average. We will soon be separating


these two statistics to give a more accurate picture of how we're doing it against comparable


numbers. That being said all of our lease signings paint a very positive picture for our retailers both


in the Southeast and the Midwest. These leasing numbers are complementary to the growth of our


portfolio occupancy rate, which now stands at the end of the quarter at 93.9%.


If we include the square footage of the mid-boxes we signed leases in the fourth quarter of 2005,


and the first quarter of 2006 and which are presently under construction and not yet open, our