Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tina Madon — Managing Director & Head of Investor Relations, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC
Dan S. Och — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC
Joel M. Frank — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Chief Operating Officer, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC
William R. Katz — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Daniel T. Fannon — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Kenneth B. Worthington — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Cynthia Nevins Mayer — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Marc S. Irizarry — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co.
Craig W. Siegenthaler — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Bulent Ozcan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Robert Andrew Lee — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Och-Ziff Capital Management Group's 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Darren, and I will be your operator for today. [Operator instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Tina Madon, Head of Investor Relations at Och-Ziff. Please proceed.

Thanks, Darren, good morning everyone and thanks for joining us today. With me are Dan Och, our Chairman and CEO and Joel Frank, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Chief Operating Officer. As a reminder today's call may include forward-looking statements. Among other things these statements reflect management's current views on assets under management, the capital flow environment, expense level, financial performance, investment opportunities and strategic business priorities; many of which are inherently uncertain and outside of our control.

Och-Ziff's actual financial results, investment performance and assets under management may differ possibly materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements. Please see our 2013 annual report for a description of the risk factors that could upset our financial results and our business. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement whether due to new information, future developments or otherwise.

During today's call we will be referring to economic income, distributable earnings and other financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Information about and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directed comparable GAAP measures are available in our earnings release, which is posted on our website www.ozcap.com

Furthermore no statements made during this call should be construed as an offer to purchase shares of the company or an interest in any Och-Ziff fund.

Today's call is being recorded and is copyrighted material of the Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC. Telephonic and Webcast replays will made available later today, you can find the details for both on our website. With that I am going to turn the call over to Dan.

Thanks Tina, good morning everyone. This morning I will update you on a year-to-date performance and the growth in our assets under management. The momentum across our business is strong, and we continue to see new opportunities to invest and grow our franchise globally. Year-to-date through July 31, our performance reflected our ability to actively manage our capital allocations across strategies and geographies as well as our highly opportunistic approach to investing. This was particularly evident during July as geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty increased, causing market conditions to become more difficult globally.

The consistency of our performance and our ability to protect investor capital are hallmarks of our approach to investing and managing risk and are at the core of the value that we deliver to the investors in our funds. We believe that we are well positioned to create significant incremental value as we continue to execute on our strategy diversifying our product offerings.

Our year-to-date net inflows and growth in assets under management through August 1 resulted from growth across our products and investor interest in our platforms remains high. Globally, we believe that pension funds and other institutions will continue to increase their allocations to alternative asset managers and that we will be a substantial beneficiary of this secular trend as we further expand and diversify our business.

Now, let me turn to our assets under management. As we announced yesterday morning, our assets under management as of August 1 totaled $45.7 billion increasing approximately $5.5 billion or 14% from $40.2 billion on December 31 of last year. This increase was due to approximately $4.5 billion of net inflows, including $1.5 billion of CLO assets and $894 million of performance related appreciation.

Our assets under management have grown rapidly with organic net inflows year-to-date through August 1 exceeding our full year 2013 total by 46%. Private bank platforms and pension funds remain the primary drivers of these flows. But we also saw an increase from corporate, institutional, and other sources.

The OZ Master Fund has experienced strong growth with organic net inflows of approximately $1.5 billion year-to-date, coming from a diverse range of investors globally, and saw a substantial acceleration in net inflows in the second quarter compared to the first quarter. We completed two additional closings totaling $225 million in our third real estate fund during June, growing that fund to a current total of $1.2 billion. The growth of our real estate business is contributing to the diversification of our assets under management, and we see a number of interesting opportunities to grow this business further, both in the U.S. and Europe.

Our credit products have also experienced strong growth year-to-date, increasing 17% or $760 million since December 31. We completed two additional CLO's during the second quarter and have now raised approximately $4.1 billion since we initiated this business 2 years ago. This has been an important source of diversification for us. We continue to evaluate additional opportunities to expand our credit offerings globally, both in opportunistic credit and on the long-only side.

Now let me turn to our fund investment performance. Year-to-date through July 31, our Master Fund had a net return of 2% while our Asia and Europe Master Funds had net returns of minus 4.4% and minus 1.7% respectively. Our credit strategies were the primary driver of the year-to-date performance in the Master Fund, which remained fully invested during the second quarter. The positive performance of the credit strategies in our Asia and Europe Master Funds was offset by negative performance of their long-short equity strategies.

The investment landscape benefited from a recovery in the equity markets globally during the second quarter, combined with a strong increase in M&A activity. We believe this has created a substantial opportunity set in the venture investing. We are also remaining active in our credit strategies, although we are incrementally more cautious in U.S. structured credit. With that, let me now turn the call over to Joel, who will take you through our financial results.

Thanks, Dan. This morning, I'll review our 2014 second quarter results and provide some color on how we're thinking about expenses for the third quarter. For the 2014 second quarter, we reported GAAP net income of $11 million or $0.06 per basic and $0.05 per diluted Class A share. As always, our press release includes a discussion of our GAAP results.

Now turning to the details behind our 2014 second quarter economic income, beginning with revenues. Management fees totaled $160 million, 3% higher than the 2014 first quarter, reflective of the asset growth and diversification we have achieved as our business has expanded. From January 1 to April 1, our assets under management grew by approximately $2.1 billion or 5% to $42.7 billion. From April 1 to July 1, our assets under management grew another $2.8 billion by nearly 7% to approximately $45.5 billion.

Our average management fee for the second quarter was approximately 1.48% compared to 1.51% in the first quarter. The sequential decline was due to the effect of the growth in our credit assets during the quarter. This excludes the effect of the $1.2 billion of capital raised for our third real estate fund the majority of which should not begin to earn management fees until July 1. As a reminder, we anticipate that our average management fee will vary based on the mix of products that drive the growth and our assets under management, and therefore will fluctuate over time incentive income was approximately $14 million during the second quarter. This amount was primarily due to incentive income crystallized in certain longer term credit assets.

Now let me turn to our operating expenses. Comp and benefits totaled $30 million during the 2014 second quarter. Of this amount, salaries and benefits were $25 million, essentially unchanged from the first quarter. Second quarter comp and benefits also included approximately $5 million of bonus expense.

Salaries and benefits were 16% of management fees in the second quarter. We expect this ratio to continue to be approximately 16% to 18% of management fees for the third quarter.

Non-comp expenses totaled approximately $31 million in this 2014 second quarter, an 8% increase from the first quarter. The first quarter included a recovery of expenses we incurred to launch our third real estate fund, which was the main driver of the sequential increase. Non-comp expenses totaled 19% of management fees in the second quarter. We expect this ratio to remain in the range of 19% to 21% for the third quarter.

Our 2014 second quarter effective tax rate was 20%. We estimate that this rate will remain in the range of 20% to 25% for the third quarter. As always, I want to remind you that these estimates are subject to many variables that won't be finalized till the fourth quarter and therefore could change meaningfully.

Our 2014 second quarter distributable earnings were $90 million or $0.18 per adjusted Class A share. As you saw in our press release this morning, a dividend for the 2014 second quarter is $0.17 per Class A share.

In closing, I'd like to reemphasize a linkage between the growth in assets under management that we've achieved year-to-date from both organic net flows and performance-related appreciation. As Dan mentioned, our assets have increased nearly 14% since the beginning of the year and approximately 24% from August 1 of last year.

As we expand our product platforms, our ability to grow assets increases as does the diversification and stability of our revenues. As our assets increase, our management fees grow and net growth compounds over time. This is a key driver of the expansion and stability of our revenues and in turn of our distributable earnings in dividends.

We also earn incentive income annually on that expanded base of assets. Although there is some variability to our returns year-to-year, our investment performance has historically been consistent. We believe that these factors when combined with an expense base that is scalable as our assets grow will drive powerful earnings growth over time.

With that, we will be happy to take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

First question is from the line of Bill Katz from Citi. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Okay, thank you very much and good morning everybody. Just wondering on the real estate fund, when you turn it on in, in the third quarter, how do you think about the incremental revenue opportunity on that fund? And then Dan, you mentioned that you continue to see opportunities globally, both I think hedge funds and others. Can you maybe talk a little bit about – so, second question would be, just talk about third quarter flows are little soft so far, so where are you in terms of incremental opportunity as it relates to that?

So, Bill on the fee, that's why in the speech I said it was 1.48% because that is – it's actually excluded the effect of real estate assets which weren't earning fees, but if you use that 1.48%, that you get you where you want be in terms of your model.

And, you know, Bill, in terms of the flows, we feel really good about the numbers and everything below the numbers. Our strategic plan has been to become a multi-product alternative asset manager by excelling in each area individually and then making the combined package even more attractive to investors through not only the flexibility that provides, but everything else that existed as if in terms of operations, transparency, disclosure et cetera.

We think that plan is working very well. It's all about solutions for clients. It's all about giving clients comfort and opportunity and we believe as long as we continue to do that, we'll continue to do well.

And just one last from me, thanks for taking my questions. Just play devil's advocate for a second. Your year-to-date performance up a couple of percentage points, is that becoming any kind of focal point for investors as they saw – thinking about allocations into hedge funds more broadly and how is your performance stacking up relative to competition?

Our investors take a long-term approach and clearly in the spring, we had a couple of months where the performance wasn't where we want us to be. You heard from the detail on the call today, it's Asia and Europe where we've underperformed. It's on the equity long/short sight in the Asia and Europe where we've underperformed. We feel that we have very strong team is that we've got a very long histories there. Over 10 years in both cases. We're very committed to the international operations and I think that, as you see from the numbers the investors are very comfortable with them. Our long-term capabilities and how we deal with short-term issues that don't quite measure up to our expectations.

Okay. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Next question is from the line of Dan Fannon. Your line is open, please go ahead.

Good morning. My question is around credit. If you could talk about performance year-to-date in the core credit strategies and then in terms of allocations from a growth perspective, are you taking – are clients allocating to you from their credit bucket in terms of overall assets or is it from their alternative bucket in terms of kind of the potential opportunity in that asset class?

Well, in terms of the return numbers, as you know we don't presently disclose those numbers although that's something that we're in discussions about. In terms of where clients are allocating from, it can come from different areas. I think that on the credit side, number one, where a candidate for investment from what clients call their opportunistic bucket, but obviously a very important part of our long-term growth strategy is to access both the fixed income buckets and the equity allocations of these institutions. These are very large and permanent allocations and that is part of the reason to provide more than one product in each area. It's one of the reasons that on the credit side, in addition to opportunistic and longer term funds, we are also focused on the long-only side.

We feel that as we create more products with the excellence that we require, institutions become more comfortable giving us larger allocations and we believe that process of capital being allocated from the fixed income allocation and from the equity long/short allocation is in its very early stages and is a very long-term secular trend that we should benefit from.

Great. And then one more on just the CLO opportunity. Is the market still attractive and is it reasonable to assume you guys will be active in that in the kind of short to intermediate term? And is this still a way that you guys are viewing as an opportunity to expand your customer base from – your legacy traditional stronghold?

We're going to continue to be very opportunistic in the CLO space. There are a lot of variables that have to line up, the asset side, the liability side, what's going on in different trading markets. And we've put in place a structure that gives us the flexibility to do each of those pieces individually as we see the best opportunities and then put it together. We feel very good about the fact, as we said, it was only two years ago that we started the CLO business. We're up to about $4 billion in assets. That's moving us up in the ranks, but most importantly, we believe we're moving up in the ranks in terms of performance and capability, that's – we're very proud of the fact that at Och-Ziff, what drives our asset growth is the performance-driven nature of our funds and the CLOs and the team involved there have clearly demonstrated that.

Great, thank you.

Thank you.

The next question is from the line of Ken Worthington from JPMorgan. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. First, with the new real estate funds getting turned on, are there any catch-up fees in the real – the new real estate fund or do they just start in whole on July 1?

They are starting whole on July 1 for all committed capital.

Okay, great. And then on the Ziff Brothers, I believe they made some changes to their family office and their investments during the quarter. How does that flow through to impact Och-Ziff? And then how much do they own of Och-Ziff at this point? And are they invested in any of the products?

I mean, we can't really comment on what they're doing. But we don't think anything that they're doing is having an impact on our firm, our funds or the management of the firm.

Okay. Can you comment on how much they currently own of Och-Ziff?

I mean, we don't usually comment on that. And so we'll – we believe that they make certain filings and we don't think it's appropriate for us to comment beyond any filings that they make. But I do want to repeat that nothing that they're doing is having an impact on us internally.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Next question is from the line of Cynthia Mayer. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, thanks. Just in terms of the new assets you're raising, how many have hurdle rates versus performance fees, which are based on absolute performance? I'm just thinking about what is – overall, what is your mix there right now?

Some of our funds do have hurdle rates, but it's actually fewer than most, and it depends on the product and what is relevant in a particular asset class, like real estate funds usually will have hurdle rates, some credit funds may have hurdle rates. But in general, the majority of our capital is not subject to a hurdle.

Okay. And in terms of the stronger flows to the Master Fund, is that primarily from the private bank channel or pension or other sources?

It's from all different sources. And it just shows you, we talk a lot about how it's difficult to predict quarter-to-quarter. I think as long as our products are strong, our relationships are strong, we position us to be the firm and product of choice when institutions want to act, there's no specific reason why that's the product that was chosen, but it was from a broad mix, including a mix of current clients adding and new clients.

Okay. And in terms of the Asia and the Europe funds, which are smaller, though it looks like the Asia Fund is growing again. Is size at all an issue for that? Do you – does in terms of how they're invested or in terms of how you market them? Do you make any different plans according to demand there in terms of how you market them? Are they available as widely as say the Master Fund, so that their growth really just depends on investor demand or do you market them somehow differently?

Firstly, there is nothing that we're doing differently. It's based on the size. It's one of the advantages to having a larger firm or – we've got about 60 people in London. We've been there for over 15 years. We've got about 40 people in Asia who have been there for over 10 years. We don't have to dramatically reduce that or dramatically expand that as the funds in either – the funds invested in either those funds go up and down. We've got the franchise, we've got the firm, we can keep the stability and I think that's important to the investors. And when – so nothing we're doing is based on the size. The market is generally the same – it's the same thought process. It doesn't mean that each investor or each channel is interested in the same things, but the thought process is generally the same.

Okay. And then just lastly, I think in the past you've said at times that you felt like you should grow your marketing a little bit, where are you in terms of that? Do you feel like you're adequately staffed and obviously you're definitely bringing in the assets? Do you want to add more?

Well, we feel very good about the team that's in place, and a lot of what we did was not so much – changed the team as much as change how they were interacting with the different clients in response to the growth of the different products that we had. Our team first of all, we don't refer to it as a marketing team, it's a client investor relations team.

Our team is about building relationships with clients, understand who they are and what they're looking to accomplish, taking the time for them to understand who we are and what we're doing. We're not out pushing any one fund at one particular time.

We don't expect any significant changes to the size or nature of the team, but we feel very good about the job that they are doing. The asset growth so far this year, aside from being what we think are very good numbers, as you can see it's in – it's in different products. It was the multi-strategy fund, it was the real estate fund, it was the credit products, it's from different sources, it's diversified by geographic region. And so, the underlying depth is very strong to that growth.

Right. So, no changes. I guess it sounds like you're – as you put it in your client relations.

No substantial changes to the size of the team. Correct.

Great. All right, thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. Next question is from the line of Marc Irizarry from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Great, thanks. Dan, can you talk about the real estate business? Just, maybe how we should think about, how much opportunity there is there for fundraising over the – over the near term and then you mentioned U.S. versus Europe, maybe you can give some perspective on where you'd be putting that – putting most of that capital to work over that period of time? And then I guess for Joel, how should we think about the performance fees related to real estate in terms of maybe the velocity of the investments that you're going to make, and how we should sort of think about the performance fees associated with it?

We – we've announced that we've raised approximately $1.2 billion for OZ Real Estate Fund III. And so, our primary focus on the real estate side is going to be performing for those investors and that fund, and using all of the resources of the real estate team as well as the firm globally to perform for the investors in that fund.

We've also talked about some of the areas where because banks are doing something's different than they used to do, there is, what we believe to be a secular change in the opportunity and one of those areas is the credit side of real estate and that has created opportunities in the past. We believe it will create opportunities going forward, primarily in the U.S. and Europe, and to the extent that we see opportunities that fit what clients are looking to do. We will approach them aggressively. But at this point, our plans are let's execute on OZ Real Estate III for those investors, who just entrusted their capital for us.

And in terms of incentive fees, it's pretty much a private equity structure where you have a three year to five year investment period and then you harvest assets and earn investments over time and there – as I mentioned earlier, there is hurdle rate and so on. So, as we start to wind on the investment period, let's say, in real estate fund too and we're starting real estate fund, there will be some harvesting of this. It's a more difficult process to predict, but that's the way basically it works, like most other private equity type structures.

Okay, great. And just in terms of credit and some opportunistic spend, you're reach in credit, you mentioned opportunistic, in the long-only side that there are some opportunities there, Dan, can you elaborate on that somewhat, particularly given where we are in terms of credit spreads. And then I guess, Joel, the fee structures on the long-only side. How should we think about what that might mean to credit, the management fees on the credit side? Thanks.

Credit spreads are tight globally, a number of the dislocations that have existed world have moved closer to balance and interest rates globally are quite low. So clearly that makes the opportunistic side more challenging than it had been. On the other hand, as I think you see from the CLO business, it also shows you that investors are looking for opportunities and with the 10-year interest rate in US to 2.5% and interest rates around the globe, roughly at that level and in some cases even lower, we think that there is – there are places all across the spectrum from long-only and CLO to opportunistic, which generates hopefully even more significant returns. And I think that we've shown investors that we can excel on the opportunistic side. We've shown investors that we can accelerate – I'm sorry that we can excel on the CLO side and I think that they're going to see that our capabilities are going to be beneficial to them and will take advantage of it.

And in terms of fees, Mark the 1.48%, that average management fees factors in lower fees and certain credit assets and in terms of all our opportunistic credits that's always going to have a 20% incentive, some of the long-only having different type structures. But as we move forward and as we start to talk more and more about our credit products and maybe disclosing we'll give you a little bit more guidance, but for now that's the way I look at it, though the average management fee reflects, where you need to be on management fees and incentive is pretty much, especially on the opportunistic side at that 20% level.

Marc, we're very focused in all the areas with our strategic plan on making sure that everything is additive to the firm and to the LPs. So if we raise long-only asset, the CLO assets were a good example. They were lower fees than our other assets. And if that mix changes, that can impact the average management fee, but it's additive and it diversifies. So from the vantage point of a shareholder of the firm it's beneficial. It builds resources, it diversifies, it's additive.

From the vantage point of an LP, it's the same thing. It gives them the opportunity to choose different products. Whichever product they're in, we have more resources, we have more capability, we have more breadth. So that, that whole concept of it being additive, accretive and beneficial to the firm, shareholders and its constituents, as well as to the LPs. That alignment of interest we think has been one of our firm's strengths for 20 years and something that we focus on a lot.

Right. And then Dan mentioned earlier, being a solution provider to a client who is looking for different asset classes and different ways to invest, this gives us the opportunity to do that.

Great. Thanks for the insight.

Thank you.

Thank you. Next question is from the line of Craig Siegenthaler from Credit Suisse. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Dan, I just wanted to circle back to the comments you made around U.S. structured credit that you view the environment today as a little less attractive. First, how's that impact you guys from an investment perspective? And also maybe what key points kind of caused you to become less positive here?

The main factor there – I talked about some of the imbalances in the credit world that have moved towards more normalized. U.S. structured credit would be one of those. So the sole issue there is that it is harder to find product. I think if you look over the past 12 months at the differentiation between the product that our team and our firm has found and been able to execute on versus the product available in the market, it's been a very, very wide differentiation.

Obviously, we want to continue that very wide differentiation. But just overall, the flow of distressed and dislocated structured credit product in the U.S. has been slowing and it looks like it's going to continue to slow.

And then just a follow-up here. And this was sort of asked in a different way, but how should we think about future organic growth in the three Master Funds, just given right now that a lot of the growth has been coming from some of these newer funds – these side funds, how should we think about growth in those three larger funds, the two regionals and the OZ Master Fund going forward?

Well, we don't really know. The way you should think about it is, look at what we're trying to match; we're trying to match excellence in performance and risk management, we're trying to match resources that are differentiated from the market, we're trying to match the business model and it's client solutions driven. So a big factor in the organic growth in the regional funds is going to be to what extent our client's interested in that as a solution.

Our experience has been that when the world is uncertain and clients do not have a strong view on the individual geographic areas, they tend to put the capital in the multi-strategy in the Master Fund. When the clients have a strong view in one of the geographic regions, they go with the geographic funds. It's a little hard for us to predict when they'll get there. We just want to make sure that we're doing what they need us to do when they need us to do it.

Great, thanks for taking my question.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next question is from the line of Bulent Ozcan from Bank of Canada. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Just a follow-up on a question and a comment that was made on basically uncertainty in the market and how it helps certain – I guess strategies than others, more than others. If you think about the current market environment and the increase in volatility, does this overall help your business? What kind of discussions are you having with your clients?

Not sure – I'm not sure I can really say whether what's going on in any one month or two-month period helps or hurts. Over time to the extent that we continue to provide well thought out, consistent performance with low risk that they understand that is creating solutions to that. I made a good example as someone said is the low interest rate, the fact that interest rates are lower than we think most people expect them to be, is that helping your credit business or is it hurting your credit business?

Well, in some way it helps and in some ways it hurts. And I think the key for us is we didn't sit there and bet on one direction. We're not sitting there saying okay, we were wrong about a substantial bet in one direction, therefore we have a problem. We did – we've done – think about it. In that environment we've done very well on opportunistic, done very well on the CLO side, done very well on some of the other things that we're doing. And that's what we're going to continue to do.

Okay. And then, you also made a comment that you're expecting an increase of allocations from pension funds. At the same time, there is news out there, basically talk about the pension funds and how they are reviewing the allocations to hedge funds and thinking about reducing exposure. Can you help us separate fact from fiction, what I see in the real world?

Well, if you look at our numbers, look over a 6-month period, 12-month period, 24-month period. They were all in the Q. You can see an increase in allocations from pension funds as a percentage of assets and an increase in terms of total dollar assets. Our focus is on what we're doing here at Och-Ziff and what our clients are thinking, and we feel very good about those relationships and where they're going, but we also want to be clear there are other areas; private banks have also been growing. We think there are a number of areas including some potential international sources that we had commented had been quieter for reasons having to do with their environments that we think are looking more positive, but we feel – we feel that if we continue to focus, drive, and deliver what these clients want and be very responsive to their needs and what they're looking for that we're going to continue to do well.

Okay. And then, maybe on the performance on these long/short underperformance, did the long side underperform or did the short side underperform versus your expectations?

Well, I think the – during the second quarter, which was – I'm sorry, during March and April, which were the months that we had the difficulty we said it was primarily the long side that underperformed.

Okay.

All right. Great. Thank you very much for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Thank you. Next question is from the line of Robert Lee from KBW. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning everyone. Just one question, just going back to kind of the expansion of the business and as you expand into real estate more credit, just trying to get a little bit of a sense – maybe some color on the LP base and presumably the initial round of investors or people who are having no new guys from the multi-strat products and your capabilities there, but can you talk a little bit about any success you've had of bringing new LPs into the mix with some of the newer strategies or are those – or do you think that's more on the come, so to speak and at this stage the LP base is pretty much people who come out of the multi-strat – and/or know you from some other capacity?

The LT base continues to be fluid. Some of these products that – you're right that as a general matter, when we first start a new product; it's most likely that clients who've been with us, who know that team, who might have been the clients who asked us to do something in that area are likely to be early investors. But, let's take real estate as an example. This is Real Estate Fund III, and we've had two funds that have had excellent performance measured as standalone real estate funds against their respective vintages. So, within that fund – within the real estate fund III, there are investors who were initially Och-Ziff investors, and there are investors whose first relation with Och-Ziff is on the real estate side.

We're seeing the same thing on the credit side. That goes back to the whole concept of alignment of interest and our internal culture, and how we compensate people and how we treat people. The focus is, what's in the best interests of the client. If the client indicates an interest in real estate versus multi-strategy, everyone's interest is to say okay, let's do what's best for the client. There is no internal battling on these things. And that's a big differentiating factor at our firm, we think it's something that – it's very good for the client, it aligns interests, we think it's helped us create a very strong internal culture, we think it helps us to maintain people and build teams and build businesses.

And, we haven't talked about that in a little while. But, I can tell you that the investors really understand that and they really see that, and that's very important to them. They know that there are approximately 540 people whose sole focus is doing what's right for them all the time. It doesn't mean we don't – we get everything right all the time, it doesn't mean there can't be a March or April with performances the way we like.

Having said that, 20 years, non-stop focus on their interests across the board.

And that leads to performance over time, which is why when you get to Real Estate Fund III, you have people who are interested in getting there that weren't in the funds before. So to that point, all that leads to performance over a long period of time. And that's what people are looking for.

Okay. Great, thanks for the added color.

Thank you.

Thank you. That concludes the question and answer session today. I'll now turn the call over to Ms. Madon.

Thanks, Darren. Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your interest in Och-Ziff. If you have any questions, please give me a call at 212-719-7381. Media inquiries should be directed to Jonathan Gasthalter at (212) 687-8080.

Thank you. Thank you for your participation in today's conference, this concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect, have a good day.