corrected transcript


Och-Ziff Capital Management


Group LLC
 
OZM
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning everyone and welcome to the Och-Ziff Capital Management’s 2007


Fourth Quarter and Full-Year Earnings Conference Call. My name is Michelle and I will be your


coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. All lines have been


placed on mute to prevent any background noise. [Operator Instructions]


And I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Ms. Tina Madon, Head of Investor


Relations. Please proceed.


Tina Madon, Managing Director, Head of Investor Relations


Great, thanks Michelle. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for our inaugural call.


With me today are Dan Och, our Chairman and CEO; and Joel Frank, our Chief Financial Officer.


Dan will review our 2007 business results. Joel will take you through the details of our 2007 fourth


quarter and full-year financials and Dan will conclude with comments on our strategy for growth in


the coming year. After that we will take your questions.


I would like to remind you that today’s call may include forward-looking statements. These


statements reflect the current views of Och-Ziff Capital Management Group with respect to, among


other things, future events and financial performance many of which by their nature are inherently


uncertain and outside of our control. Actual results and financial condition may differ possibly


materially from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking


statements.


The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking


statement whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. Furthermore,


no statements made today during this call should be construed as an offer of any of our funds.


Today’s call is being recorded and is copyrighted material of Och-Ziff Capital Management Group.


A replay will be made available later today via our website at www.ozcap.com.


Now, let me turn the call over to Dan.


Daniel Och, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Tina. Good morning everyone and welcome to our first earnings call since becoming a


public company last November. It is certainly an exciting and important milestone for us. We


appreciate your interest in our company and we look forward to a long-standing relationship with


the investment community. I will briefly update you on our performance and results year-to-date


and then I will spend some time later addressing our 2008 outlook and as Tina mentioned the


opportunities we see.


Perhaps most important, we are on track with our growth initiatives for 2008. As we said on our


road show, our objectives for the coming year are twofold. One, to grow our existing funds by


extending our track record of investment performance; and two, to increase the investment


strategies and geographic reach we can offer to our fund investors through the growth of our


private investments business.


There is no question that January was a difficult month for the equity markets globally. But as you


can see from our disclosed returns, we were successful in preserving capital by actively managing
corrected transcript


Och-Ziff Capital Management


Group LLC
 
OZM
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


exposures in and across each of our funds. While we’ve not completed the month of February, the


diversity of our operating model in terms of the number of strategies we employ and the breadth of


our geographic presence clearly provides significant benefit in navigating challenging market


conditions.


Now let’s turn to our business results for 2007. Before going through our results in detail, I would


like to remind you of our strategic focus to deliver consistent, positive, risk-adjusted returns to our


fund investors throughout market cycles. This focus, characterized by our constant attention to risk


management capital preservation and a dynamic capital allocation process, is executed across all


aspects of our business on a daily basis. It is a key consideration deciding which new investment


strategies we choose to implement or which new geographic markets we decide to enter.


Additionally, our one-firm P&L ensures that we are all operating towards a common goal – serving


the best interest of our fund investors and that we are therefore aligned with both our public and


fund shareholders.


In 2007, we produced strong results and advanced many of our strategic goals including the


positive absolute returns in each of our funds, the continued development of additional investment


platforms to create new opportunities for our fund investors, the growth we achieved in assets


under management, the increase in our economic income, which is a key performance metric for


our business, our strategic relationship with Dubai International Capital and of course becoming a


public company, which has positioned us to capitalize on a number of growth opportunities globally.


I’d like to make a few comments about our 2007 performance. 2007 was a challenging year for the


financial markets, but a year in which our models served our fund investors well. During the past 12


months, risk related to subprime mortgages along with the ensuing credit crunch hurt many well


known financial services firms and led to extremely volatile markets. This was particularly evident in


the third quarter when we saw a mid-quarter decline of 10 to 15% in the global equity markets and


in the last two months of the fourth quarter when we also saw broad market declines.


It is important to remember that our fund investors are primarily institutions who value non-volatile


returns as compared to the capital markets and the value of our mandate was readily apparent in


recent months. Our fund investors consider preservation of capital during periods of market decline


equally important to attractive returns when the capital markets experience positive performance.


We believe that we delivered both during 2007. We expect to continue to do so in 2008 and over


the long-term.


Against this backdrop, our flagship Master Fund generated an 11.5% net return as of year end, our


European Master Fund 14.8% net, our Asian Master Fund 12.2% net and our Global Special


Investments Fund 17.2% net. These returns were generated with less than half the volatility of the


capital markets and with a very limited amount of leverage. As has been the case throughout our


14-year history, we will continue to maintain low leverage and manage exposures based on what


we see in the markets while at the same time working hard to generate strong returns for our fund


investors.


Our business is extremely diversified by strategy and geography. This diversification helps us


manage risk and generate consistent performance. We deploy capital based on opportunity with a


view on risk exposures.


As you may recall from our prospectus, there were two charts we included to put our investment


performance into context as compared to the S&P 500. The first showed year-by-year since our


inception in 1994, our cumulative net returns for the months in which the S&P 500 total return was


negative. The second showed the one-year, three-year and five-year net returns, volatility and


Sharpe Ratios of our OZ Master Fund compared to the S&P 500. We’ve updated those numbers for


you. They’re included in the financial supplement pages, which accompany our press release.