Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Adam Willkomm — Head of Business Development and Shareholder Services, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC
Robert Shafir — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Managing Director & Director, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC
Alesia J. Haas — Chief Financial Officer, Executive Managing Director & Member of the Partner Management Committee, Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC
Robert Lee — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Gerald Edward O'Hara — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Patrick Davitt — Analyst, Autonomous Research US LP
Michael Carrier — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
William Katz — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Alexander Blostein — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
William V. Cuddy — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Oz Management's First Quarter 2018 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Adam Willkomm, Head of Business Development and Shareholder Services at Oz Management.

Thanks, Emily. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our call. Joining me today are Rob Shafir, our Chief Executive Officer; and Alesia Haas, our Chief Financial Officer.

Today's call may include forward-looking statements, many of which are inherently uncertain and outside of our control. Before we get started, I need to remind you that Oz Management's actual results may differ possibly materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements. Please refer to our most recent SEC filings for a description of the risk factors that could affect our financial results, our business and other matters related to these statements. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.

During today's call, we will be referring to Economic Income, Distributable Earnings and other financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Information about and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available in our earnings release, which is posted on our website.

No statements made during this call should be construed as an offer to purchase shares of the company or an interest in any of our funds or any other entity.

Earlier this morning, we reported first quarter 2018 GAAP net income of $3 million or $0.02 per basic and diluted Class A share. As always, you can find a full review of our GAAP results in our press release, which is available on our website.

On an Economic Income basis, we reported first quarter 2018 Distributable Earnings of $45 million or $0.08 per adjusted Class A Share. We declared a $0.02 dividend for the first quarter. If you have any questions about the information provided in our press release or on our call this morning, please feel free to follow up with me.

With that let me turn the call over to Rob.

Thank you, Adam. Good morning. I'm happy to join you today. We continue to be pleased with our investment performance as our funds have performed very well thus far in 2018 against the backdrop of increased market volatility. The Oz Master Fund returned 2.1% net for the first quarter of 2018, outperforming global markets broadly. As we have previously discussed, 2017 was notable for the lack of volatility and consistent upward returns. This trend continued into this January but quickly changed in February with a sharp increase in volatility that has remained elevated since.

Our Portfolio Committee's cautious view on markets entering 2018 helped to protect the downside during this volatility and our portfolio hedges positively impacted our performance. The Master Fund's return was broad based with positive performance for the quarter in all our major strategies. [ph]

Oz CO (00:03:30), our largest credit fund was up 2.8% net for the first quarter. Our credit strategies continue to perform well despite a broader market underperformance. We believe our flexible mandate and ability to cast a wide net in search of unique investment ideas enables us to proactively create value in credit markets regardless of the overall market environment.

In real estate, we continue to deploy capital in our opportunistic and credit real estate funds but also

realizing investments. In the first quarter, we invested over $195 million and had full or partial realizations of two investments. In total, we have committed approximately two-thirds of our most recent opportunistic real estate fund, generating a 22% net return for investors since inception.

Turning to flows, on May 1, assets under management were $32.7 billion, a decrease of approximately $150 million from March 31, 2018. Part of my vision and strategy for Oz in the near term is to invest our resources and our scale funds within our core multi-strategy credit and real estate businesses. To that point, certain smaller funds, which have been less in favor with clients, have been closed, such as Oz Europe Master Fund and Oz Asia Master Fund.

The majority of distributions from both funds are reflected in our May 1 AUM. To be clear, we continue to have a significant local presence with major offices in Europe and Asia. Additionally, we have $6.6 billion and $2.4 billion invested in these regions respectively. We are committed to being a global firm with global investment capabilities, which we believe gives us an edge in sourcing and executing the best ideas available for all of our clients.

Our CLO franchise continues to be active issuer having a positive impact on assets under management. In the first quarter, we closed new CLOs in the U.S. and Europe, adding approximately $1 billion in new assets.

In April, we closed an approximately $500 million CLO, and expect to close an approximately $465 million CLO in the next two weeks. Our view is that consistent investment performance should lead to inflows. The current market conditions are creating increased interest in multi-strategy funds generally, which we think bodes well for the Master Fund with its history of generating consistent lower volatility returns.

In addition, the regulatory and industry headwinds that led to a reduction in multi-strategy assets are now largely in the rearview mirror. Against that backdrop, we continue to build our sales pipeline and we're in active communications across the investor community in an effort to grow our multi-strategy credit and real estate businesses.

As we announced two weeks ago, I'm excited that Tom Sipp is joining Oz as the Chief Financial Officer. Tom and I worked together for over eight years at Credit Suisse, where Tom served as CFO and COO of Credit Suisse Asset Management. Tom bring a deep asset management industry experience with significant hands on financial and operational expertise from previous roles in large institutional managers.

I believe that Tom's experience will prove invaluable as we continue on our course of prudent financial management and continued cost discipline. Alesia Haas will be leaving Oz to pursue a different opportunity. She has been an asset to Oz in her time here, diligently cutting expenses, managing our balance sheet and setting us up for the future. I want to thank her for her contributions to Oz. Alesia will be working closely with Tom to ensure a smooth transition.

Looking forward to the remainder of 2018, we are focused on execution and continuing to deliver for our clients. I strongly believe that we have all the components we need to be successful; uniquely talented investment professionals, strong client relationships, solid global infrastructure and a brand that is known for delivering consistent performance over time.

Additionally, our recent term loan issuances and bond redemption continues the balance sheet strengthening that has been ongoing over the last number of quarters. I look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter.

With that let me turn the call over to Alesia.

Thanks, Rob.

In the first quarter of 2018, our revenues were $123 million, a decrease of 8% as compared to the first quarter of 2017, primarily due to a decrease in management fees. Management fees were $68 million for the first quarter, $13 million lower than a year ago. The management fee decrease was driven primarily by our lower multi-strategy assets, partially offset by an increase in CLO management fees.

We recognized $51 million of incentive income in the first quarter of 2018, effectively flat year-over-year. In addition to the incentive income recognized in the quarter, the company adopted the new GAAP revenue recognition standard, which resulted in recognition of $128 million of previously accrued but unrecognized incentive income, which was offset by $44 million of compensation associated with the incentive crystalized. This adjustment did not impact the economic income reported for the first quarter of 2018 as it was reflected as an adjustment to retained earnings, however, it did contribute to strengthening our balance sheet.

As of March 31, these amounts were reflected in our cash balance of $609 million and had no offsetting unearned liabilities against them. Other revenues were $5 million for the first quarter of 2018, up $4 million year-over-year, driven primarily by interest income on our CLO investments. As of the quarter end, our accrued but unrecognized incentive balance was $308 million, down $129 million quarter-over-quarter. The quarter-over-quarter reduction was largely driven by the adoption of revenue recognition as we just discussed.

The balance, adjusted for the adoption of revenue recognition accounting guidance, remained relatively flat quarter-over-quarter as first quarter crystallizations were largely offset by performance appreciation. As a reminder, with the exception of the balance associated with our real estate fund and energy funds, the remainder of this balance has no associated compensation expense as it was paid in earlier periods.

Now turning to our operating expenses, our first quarter total expenses were $70 million, down 21% year-over-year. As we look at the components of our fixed operating expenses, salaries and benefits for the quarter totaled $24 million, down 6% from the first quarter of 2017. This decrease was primarily driven by lower head count. Our bonus expense for the first quarter of 2018 was $9 million, down 56% year-over-year. This decrease was driven primarily by reversals of previously accrued expenses due to deferred compensation forfeitures.

For the first quarter 2018, non-compensation expenses, excluding interest expense, were $31 million, down 15% year-over-year. Our interest expense was $7 million in the first quarter, essentially flat year-over-year. Our expectations for the remainder of 2018 are unchanged from our prior guidance. We expect full year 2018 salaries and benefits to be between $90 million and $95 million and full year minimum annual bonus accrual to be between $80 million and $90 million.

We expect full year non-compensation expenses to be between $100 million and $110 million, excluding interest expense. If you annualize our first quarter non-compensation expense, excluding interest expense, this amount is greater than our annual non-compensation expense guidance.

We have a number of seasonal expenses that result in an elevated first quarter expense. In addition, we continue to have a number of initiatives in place that we expect to reduce our non-compensation expenses in future quarters that we anticipate allowing us to achieve the guidance we provided.

Please note that our guidance does not include an allowance for items such as any expense associated with the extinguishment of our bonds. Our guidance for the full year tax receivable agreement and other payables remained unchanged at 10% to 15%. As a reminder, estimates are subject to many variables that won't be finalized until the fourth quarter of the year and therefore could vary materially from the estimates provided. All guidance reflects our best estimates at this time. As these are estimates, we intend to update these amounts quarterly as we move forward.

Now, an update on the balance sheet, as discussed earlier, our cash balance as of March 31, 2018, was $609 million, an increase of $140 million since year-end 2017. On April 5, we announced the issuance of a $250 million senior secured term loan. In addition we announced the redemption of the existing $400 million of senior notes, using proceeds from the term loan issuance and cash on hand. Yesterday, we voluntarily prepaid $50 million of the term loan balance.

A combination of these actions reduces corporate debt, excluding our CLO risk retention financing by $200 million or 50%. This is part of our plan to strengthen our balance sheet by reducing debt. We believe our cash position accrued but unrecognized incentive balance and extended maturity on our corporate debt obligation positions the company well to focus on the near-term strategic priorities that Rob discussed earlier.

We believe we have the resources to continue to invest in our funds to drive growth in AUM and reduce our debt obligations, while at the same time allowing us to return capital to shareholders and drive long-term shareholder value.

With that, we will open the line up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Rob Lee from KBW. Your line is open.

Great, thanks. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Can you maybe talk a little bit about fundraising first? You mentioned that the real estate fund, I guess, is two-thirds invested. I mean, that's usually close to the point, where you start raising or – the net to follow-on funds, so I know there's a limit we can say but would you envision that process starting and would you just generally be targeting kind of a next generation fund of a size larger than the last one?

Rob, thanks for your question. So as you rightly point out, we can't speak to any specific funds that we may be in the process of evaluating. But we are optimistic about our ability to continue to grow our real estate and credit platforms as well as we are looking to raise additional funds in our multi-strategy products. So the answer broadly is we continue to see investor appetite and [Technical Difficulty] (00:15:32) be able to see growth in those areas.

Yeah. Maybe I can chime in here and just talk about the flow picture in general, starting with the multi-strat. If you're looking where we are in the multi-strat, which is an area we're very focused on growing here, I think the good news is that it feels like we are in the process of really bottoming out in terms of the outflows in those product [indiscernible] (00:15:56). If you look at the April 1 number, on the one hand it's an $850 million outflow number. Within that number, though, about $300 million is for the closure of the European fund. So as I talked about on the call earlier, we are going to close smaller non-strategic funds. So if you net up the distributions in that it's about $550 million.

Now, no one is declaring victory from a $550 million outflow but if you contrast that to where we were a year ago, April 1 number last year was $1.9 billion in outflows in multi-strategy. The January 1 number in 2017 was $3.8 billion. So, as you can see, it feels, certainly, just like a bottoming trend here. Now that being said, no one is declaring victory there and, obviously, we're focused on getting positive flows into that product area.

And on that note, I think I would say the following. As we said in the call, we are seeing more interest in multi-strategy products in the context of what feels to be a changing market environment. We have a good performance story on [ph] outflows (00:17:02) and I think that between our performance what looks like industry demand and the passage of time, we feel like we are restoring the confidence of our clients and are hopeful and frankly more than hopeful, I'd say confident that we will begin to turn that tide. It's difficult to say exactly when that will happen but it certainly feels like we're heading in the right direction there.

The client conversations I've had across Asia, Europe and the U.S. have been certainly very positive about what's going on here and the consistency in the performance. I think in terms of real estate, as Alesia said, we can't comment on any specific product raises, but suffice to say that we've had stellar performance in a lot of client interest in our real estate business and certainly our CLO pipeline, as you can see, has been robust and continues to be very robust.

Great. Thanks. And then maybe as a follow-up, I mean clearly your performance has been good and as you point out the flow pictures been improving, but, I guess, unfortunately at least the stock is continuing to be buffeted by some headlines. So can you update us on where things stand with – I guess, there's still kind of a settlement approval that has to take place kind of and there were some news on that, can you maybe update us on that? And then also there's been a – I know you kind of revamped some key employee compensation and lockups. Could you maybe just update us like – with some of that, is there – what maybe some of the lockups are or on some employees? So I think one concern out there is that and then maybe some key employees with the changes, how long are they locked up for and committed for?

Not sure I really understand the question. Maybe I'll start and Alesia you can – maybe you can jump in here.

Right.

Certainly in terms of the stock price, as a new CEO, see, nobody likes to watch their stock price trade down, particularly when it's on light volume and it feels like these are somewhat idiosyncratic moves that really don't feel fundamental in nature to me. That being said, we can't manage the business on behalf of short-term stock moves. We have to manage and play for the long game and building longer-term shareholder value. So from my perspective, we have all the pieces that we need to be successful. We have very good products. We have performance. We have talented investment professionals. We have a client franchise. We have infrastructure. So I believe all the components are there and if we execute the plans of focusing on our core business, I believe we're going to create longer-term shareholder value in terms of suits and settlements and so forth and the settlements already have been reached here in terms of any outstanding suits that have been potentially in the papers as of late.

Suffice to say we don't think any of those suits have any merit and we are confident that the courts will see things that way regarding Africa specifically, we don't believe that any of the victims – that the suit has nothing to do with any of the victims that were part of that settlement and the DOJ has seen it the same way we do. And as I said, we're confident the courts will rule in what we believe will be the right way there. So, again, that maybe address the stock price and settlements. In terms of key employees being locked up, we have longer-term contracts around our partners and so forth. So I'm not exactly sure what you're asking about there specifically.

Yeah. Well, I apologize [ph] I'm probably (00:21:08) being too cryptic, but I guess Mr. Levin had been a heavy seller of the stock and so I think there was a lot of concern given some of the – what had been in the news before that about his commitment, I guess, I would say, so that's what I was really driving at.

Let me specifically address the stock sales that we reported recently on the [indiscernible] (00:21:29). Those shares were sold pursuant to a 10b5-1 plan. These represented shares that Jimmy had earned in compensation from over five years ago and represent less than 10% of his overall equity holdings in Oz. He has a significant equity interest. He is very committed to the platform and [ph] as you can (00:21:49) see evidence of that in the performance that we've been able to post year-to-date.

And I would note to you that given the company's recent history, executives were locked out of selling any shares because we had material non-public information and this has been one of the recent windows that we have the ability and that is [ph] what's interesting (00:22:08) coming into the market at this time.

Yeah.

We do not believe it has any significance or anything that you should look into further.

Yeah. Sorry, I guess, maybe I misunderstood where you were going with that question. Again, I guess, I would just add to Alesia's comments. Jimmy is working very hard, he is fully engaged along with the rest of the investment professionals and you can see it in the performance of the firm. So when you think about this thing, let's just focus on the facts here. This is a fraction of his holdings, it's a 10b5-1 plan from an award that was over five – granted over five years ago. I mean those are the facts, nothing more, nothing less. There's really no story there.

That's great. I appreciate the additional insight and sorry I was not clear with my question before, but thank you. [ph]

It's quite all right (00:22:54).

Your next question comes from the line of Gerry O'Hara from Jefferies. Your line is open.

Great, thanks and good morning. Perhaps, just a follow-up on the prepared remarks, Alesia, you mentioned a number of initiatives in place to continue driving down expenses, I believe this is not comp related but, perhaps, you could elaborate a little bit on that would be helpful.

Sure. There is no big initiative here, Gerry, we've just taken a very disciplined approach to evaluating our procurement. And as I mentioned on the call, we do have some elevated seasonal expenses that arrived in the first quarter both on the compensation and non-compensation side, you see concentration of audit fees and tax complaint fees in the first quarter and then you also see a little bit of higher benefits in the first quarter. So some of it seasonal and some of it is just continuing long-term expense saving initiatives that we put in place that you'll see small amounts coming through all of our non-comp line items as we continue to evaluate ways to be more efficient in our services.

Okay. Great. And, perhaps, just to follow up on some of the CLO commentary, clearly a strong growing business, with the change in the risk retention rules, can you maybe just address how that maybe impacts you all, how you might be able to take advantage of it? Thank you.

Sure. So you're correct that we will no longer be holding risk retention for U.S. CLOs, we'll continue to have risk retention requirements on our European or our dual compliant CLOs. And so later this year, we will be evaluating selling their existing investments that we have and then paying down some of those financings associated with those investment loans.

Okay. Thanks for taking my question.

We do not have a material impact on our management fees or our management company economics.

Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Davitt from Autonomous Research. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning. Going back to the commentary in the multi-strategy fundraising, I think you said the word pipeline and I think we sometimes take that to mean there are actual wins that have unfunded. Is that what you meant by that? And if you can answer that, I think, more broadly it would be helpful for us to kind of get an idea of when you started marketing the fund aggressively again and from your historical experience when would that process normally lead to traction with new mandates?

Yeah. I can only speak to the three months that I've been here, and we've certainly been marketing that fund over that period of time in my senses. Obviously, given the fact that we have several clients in that fund that's been an ongoing thing. I can't speak to any specifically unfunded mandates but I guess, I would say when I talk about pipeline, there are several what we think to be very interesting potential opportunities out there that are in different stages of development here.

And, as I said earlier, as time goes on and you get some time and distance away from last year, along with performance, we think that really restores confidence and starts to bring investors back into the fund. I do think, as I said also that the industry demand feels like it's there, our performance is there, so I think there's just a little bit of time and grade here and validation to restore our investors' confidence to start seeing those flows again. It's very difficult to pinpoint exactly when that will happen, so I don't want to sit here and be in the overpromise and under deliver mode. But suffice to say, I think those conversations are certainly trending in the right direction.

And to that point, are you comfortable that the aforementioned negative news flow isn't causing money that you thought maybe was safe to get a little bit less safe?

I'm not sure what you're referring to there?

Just the press reports like I think it was the previous question, have obviously been kind of fast and furious on the negative end of things. Like you said, it's probably not fair but has that impacted client conversations at all and or redemption rates?

Again, I think it's very hard to speculate on exactly what impacts what in terms of any specific client. All we can do is focus on the fundamentals here, which are our performance, our clients and, obviously, being in front of them and giving them value propositions that we think makes sense for them. And in my experience, over time fundamentals prevail. So we can't control newspaper articles on any given day but we believe that, as I said, industry – markets changing the way they feel like they have, which [indiscernible] (00:27:59) sort of constructive for multi-strategy asset managers. Our story being a lower volatility, consistent [ph] lead (00:28:10) performing product does feel like a more attractive proposition. And as I said earlier, that the more time and grade we have and the more distance we have from some of those newspaper articles I think the better off we will ultimately be. But it's hard to speculate on any specific articles.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mike Carrier from Bank of America, Merrill Lynch. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks a lot. Maybe first question, just on the balance sheet, so given that you guys are de-levering in this quarter, just wanted to get, maybe some update on how you're thinking about like the payout, the distribution going forward and then the longer-term, in terms of the preferreds that are out there, obviously, not an impact now given that you're not the [ph] payee (00:29:03) for it but just how that kind of maybe goes into your thinking over the next few years?

Sure. Well, let me start very short-term and then we'll talk about broader trend. As we shared last quarter, as most of our incentive income is not earned until the fourth quarter, we don't have a sense of our overall economic performance until later in the year. And as such in these intervening quarters, our dividends will be fairly modest. As we said at the end of last year, our top priority has been to use Distributable Earnings to continue to strengthen our balance sheet by retaining cash. And as you noted this quarter, we did use some of that cash to de-lever and pay down some of our debt obligations.

We will continue to evaluate increased dividends and share repurchases based on what we believe is in the best and long-term interest of our shareholders and likely those would be fourth quarter activities and conversations.

Okay.

And then on a longer-term basis, as you know, with regards to the preferred, at this time as we are not paying a coupon on it, it is not a near-term focus of ours and I think we'll have better information for you over time.

Okay. Thanks. And then just one maybe, Alesia, just on the share count, I just wanted to make sure that we're thinking about this.

Yeah.

In terms of the current quarter, I think last quarter you guys mentioned that Dan forfeited maybe 30 million shares and if that was coming through and then maybe just an update on if that had any impact on the future, like the performance units that you guys have, I think it was like 72 million like initially but if that's been taken down and given [ph] those (00:30:37) forfeitures?

Sure. So as we shared with you last quarter, we gave you a projection of what end of period share count we estimated to be. What we published this quarter is our weighted average share count of 549 million. Our end of period share count as of March 31 was 539 million units roughly. The combination of the new employment agreement that we entered into with Jimmy and then the relinquishment of 30 million units with Dan brought down that share count from the year end 12/31 number to this March 31 number that I mentioned. In connection with Jimmy's new employment agreement, he also forfeited certain key units. So the 71 million number that we had at the 12/31/2017 is now down to 42 million key units and then in addition we have issued a 10 million PSUs, which for all intents and purposes are the same unit. They both have performance thresholds as well as a service condition, one was just issued at a later time and has a different reference price. So we do have now 20 million approximately less performance units that could come into the share count over time. But as a reminder, these are not included today if they have not met any of their conditions to that.

Right. Okay, thanks a lot.

Your next question comes from the line of Bill Katz from Citigroup. Your line is open.

Okay. Thanks very much. Just going back to balance sheet again, of the $609 million, how much of that you need for working capital? I mean, as you do think out over the next 12 to 24 months, how are you thinking about residual debt exposure? And then even though you're not paying a coupon right now, what sort of timeline, in your mind, [ph] of the milestones (00:32:28) needed to potentially redeem the preferred?

So, as you may have observed in our new term loan issuance, it is an amortizing term loan and we have 15% amortization per year. So we'd anticipate paying down in that 15% at a minimum, which is $37.5 million per year of the term loan.

If you look over long periods of time, the company has always had around $250 million of cash sort of at a minimum if I look back in recent years of 2014-2015. So I do think that that is a number that you would continue to see us hold on balance sheet.

I think you will also note if you read through our term loan is that one of our covenant does say that if we hold more than $200 million in cash that that allows us to make restrictive payments. And so I think the company will continue to be in compliance with that covenant during the life of the term loan. So I would say $200 million at the minimum, $250 million is probably more likely as the balance sheet cash number.

With regards to the preferred, again, today at zero coupon, it steps up to a 6% coupon. The term loan that we just issued was LIBOR plus 4.75%. I think that what we do with that preferred will largely depend on interest rate environment and the company's cash position and growth going forward and it's too early to call what we will do with it at that time.

Okay. And just [ph] as a tackle (00:34:01) question, your other income you mentioned is sort of interest on the CLOs. Is there anything unusual there or is that just a function of where rates are now? Could you give us sort of the underlying cash component of the CLOs or maybe just the yield component?

So that interest income is largely offset by interest expense that you see down in our interest expense line item. So when I think about the net impact on our management company non-GAAP economics, I think of them largely as a wash. And so that's when I made the comment if we consider selling our investment in our CLO risk retention loans on the U.S. CLOs and paying down those liabilities, I don't anticipate it having a material impact on the management company economic income. It will, though, free up some equity and create more available cash for the company to use.

Great. Just one final. Thanks for taking the questions this morning. Rob, maybe in your conversations you've been having with investors around maybe increase – potentially increase appetite for the hedge fund platform, where you think you stand on pricing today? Are things firm or is there any sort of further pressure on the economics to sort of get those assets in the door?

Look I'd say in general there's always some element of pressure from clients, obviously, looking to get greater fees, but I think the broad focus on our conversations have been much more just about sort of the broader value propositions of the multi-strats, what we're doing and what the performance is in light of what appears to be certainly a very much an environment that's changing a fair amount here.

Certainly for larger clients, where you have larger size and larger lockups, the possibility of price discounting is always something that – that's a consideration. So I think there will be ongoing pressure and I think that will be offset by the propositions and the performance that we can deliver for our clients as well as the potential demand. Let's not forget that a lot of our multi-strat competitors are closed.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Alex Blostein from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning, everybody. Just a quick follow-up around the Master Fund, so, Rob, I think you mentioned $300 million number in terms of distributions from, I think, largely Europe, and now that you guys are folding Asia into the [ph] main fund (00:36:42) as well. I think combined Europe and Asia was about $800 million. I guess, what's the outlook on retaining the remaining assets?

And, I guess, bigger picture, there are a couple of other sleeves whether it's the Enhanced Fund that you guys show us or other funds, any plans, I guess, around that or you're largely [ph] down (00:37:00) with kind of reshaping the Master Fund lineup?

Let me start. I believe at this time that we don't have any intention to close down any other of our multi-strategy funds and we're very pleased with the performance of the Enhanced as well as the Oz Master Fund, and except to see an – are optimistic that we can grow both of those products.

With regards to your question, I can't speak to any specific client and the ability to roll, but I would share that we believe the majority of the distributions are reflected in our May 1 AUM number that we posted this morning. But we do anticipate a few hundred million of additional distributions coming out of the Asia and Europe platform over time.

Got it. Any expense relief associated with the wind down on those funds?

There will be some modest operational savings.

Got you. And then my second question is just around the incentive fee accruals. So, it's still a significant number. I think over $300 million as of the end of the quarter. Just given where we are in the cycle and the vintaging and kind of the aging of the closed funds, can you walk us through kind of the timing of potential exits and kind of how that will be recognized in the income statement over the next couple of years?

Sure. You're right. The majority of this accrued, but unrecognized incentive will be crystallized into our P&L within the next three years. Some of it is going to be a little lumpy and some of it because it is in closed-end funds, where we can harvest the investments in the best interest of our clients could be more near-term or less predictable, so within the next three years, though, I do see the majority of it coming in.

Got it. Great. Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Ken Worthington from JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Good morning. This is Will Cuddy filling in for Ken. Thank you for taking our questions. So another question on the balance sheet, could you remind us if you have a target debt level? And after paying down the senior notes, what could be your debt capacity?

So we do not post a target debt level and after paying down the senior notes, we have a $100 million undrawn revolving credit facility and we today have a $200 million term loan. And that represents what I consider the corporate operating debt. In addition, we have financings related to our CLO investment loans that we hold for risk retention purposes.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And secondly for – I'll try another approach, on real estate for prior real estate funds, what has been the typical fund raising period of time, just for the prior vintages, so we don't have to address what's currently in the – currently potentially in the market at some point?

Let me just clarify your question, are you asking how long does it take us to raise a fund?

Or when do you start...

Yeah, just from launch to close for your prior real estate funds.

Approximately 12 months, but it could vary depending on market conditions.

You may have more than one close, too.

Correct.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Patrick Davitt from Autonomous Research. Your line is open.

Hey, thanks for the follow-up. On the share count point, I think most analysts have kind of gotten used to putting a fair amount of share creep in their models for Och-Ziff. Do you think this is kind of a good base now or should we still expect it to kind of creep up every year with annual awards and what not?

We do issue equity in our compensation arrangements to our employees. So there is going to continue to be an element of compensation that is paid in non-cash comp. However, as I mentioned earlier, the board and while this management is focused on the overall shareholder value story and may use tools such as share repurchases to help offset that, and that will be evaluated in the fourth quarter along with potential increased distributions once the company has a better understanding of the overall economic condition of the company based on the 2018 total earnings.

Great. Thanks.

I'm not showing any further questions. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Willkomm.

Thanks, Emily. Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your interest in Oz Management. If you have questions, please don't hesitate to contact me at 212-719-7381. Media inquiries should be directed to Jonathan Gasthalter at 212-257-4170. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.