Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Elise King — Shareholders Services Head, Sculptor Capital Management, Inc.
Robert Shafir — Chief Executive Officer, Executive Managing Director & Director, Sculptor Capital Management, Inc.
Thomas M. Sipp — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Managing Director, Sculptor Capital Management, Inc.
William Raymond Katz — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Sculptor Capital Management's Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Elise King, Head of Shareholder Services at Sculptor Capital Management.

Thanks, Juanita. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to our call. Joining me are Robert Shafir, our Chief Executive Officer; and Tom Sipp, our Chief Financial Officer. Today's call contains forward-looking statements, many of which are inherently uncertain and outside of our control. Before we get started, I need to remind you that Sculptor Capital's actual results may differ possibly materially from those indicated in these forward-looking statements.

Please refer to our most recent SEC filings for a description of the risk factors, including those in our most recent 10-K, that could affect our financial results, our business and other matters related to these statements. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.

During today's call, we will be referring to economic income, distributable earnings and other financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Information about and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are available in our earnings release, which is posted on our website. No statements made during this call should be construed as an offer to purchase shares of the company or an interest in any of our funds or any other entities.

Our earnings press release from this morning also included an earnings presentation. We will be referring to this report during the call. If you would like to follow along, you can find the presentation on the Public Investors page at sculptor.com at the 3Q press release link.

Earlier this morning, we reported a third quarter 2019 GAAP net loss of $25 million or $1.20 per basic and diluted Class A share. As always, you can find a full review of our GAAP results in our earnings release. On an economic income basis, we reported third quarter 2019 distributable earnings of $2.3 million or $0.04 per fully diluted share.

In the third quarter, we recorded a legal provision of $19.1 million, which we will provide further detail on during this financial update. Adjusted distributable earnings, which excludes the legal provision, net of TRA and other payables, were $17.7 million or $0.32 per fully diluted share for the third quarter of 2019. If you have any question about the information provided in our press release or on our call this morning, please feel free to follow up with me.

With that, let me turn the call over to Rob.

Thanks, Elise, and good morning, everyone. Starting with investment performance, this is a challenging quarter for our funds. Markets continue to react to developments in the US-China trade war and shifting sentiment of our global growth as well as sizable movements in interest rates and abrupt start to rotations and equities.

Sculptor Master Fund was down 2.8% net for the third quarter, but is up 8.5% net year-to-date through September 30 comparing favorably with the HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index year-to-date return of 6.8%. In addition, the Master Fund was up 1.9% net in October bringing year-to-date net performance to 10.5% through October 31. Performance in the third quarter was primarily the result of a handful of negative company-specific developments for some of our larger fundamental equity positions. Corporate credit was also [indiscernible] (00:04:17) attributable in part to our modest exposure to energy-related companies and idiosyncratic weakness in a small number of positions.

Looking deeper into the Master Fund performance, I'd like to point out that there were a number of positive developments which helped to counterbalance the losses, which we believe are illustrative of the benefits of our opportunistic approach and the breadth of our investment capabilities. Several of our largest and most complex positions in merger arbitrage, corporate credit, and convertible and derivative arbitrage achieved significant milestones, consistent with our investment thesis. It is also worth noting that we held net and gross equity exposure comparatively low during the quarter as higher implied volatility increased the cost of maintaining convexity in our hedge strategy. This involved the number of disciplined reductions in equity positions that have outperformed year-to-date, an effort that we believe has been prudent given the potency of key headline risks related to the escalation of the trade war, changes in monetary policy expectations, mixed economic data and Brexit.

The Sculptor Credit Opportunities Fund, our globe opportunistic credit fund, was down 2.2% net for the third quarter 2019 and is up 1.1% net for the first nine months of the year. While challenges for a handful of positions have driven the near-term underperformance, the fund continues to demonstrate strong and differentiated long-term returns with a 10.8% net annualized return since inception. Our real estate funds continue to deploy capital and generate strong returns with a 20% annualized net return in our third opportunistic fund through September 30.

Turning to flows, as you can see on page 7, as of November 1, our assets under management were $33 billion. Our net inflows in the third quarter were $15 million due to the closing of a new CLO and inflows into our opportunistic credit strategy, partially offset by redemptions in the Sculptor Master Fund. In addition, from October 1 to November 1, we had net inflows of $930 million driven by the first close of Sculptor Real Estate Fund IV.

Turning to page 8, real estate had total assets under management of $1.8 billion as of September 30 which included reductions of $1.1 billion in the third quarter due to the expiration of the investment period for Real Estate Fund III. From October 1 to November 1, real estate had approximately $1.2 billion in subscriptions due to the first clause of Real Estate Fund IV and related co-investment vehicles.

There has been high demand given our strong performance and tenured team, and we look forward to additional closings over the next year. In addition, we continue to see opportunities to expand real estate's product offerings. Opportunistic credit had $6 billion of assets as of September 30 which included $97 of net inflows in the quarter. From October 1 to November 1, there were additional $76 million of outflows from former executive managing directors as part of the strategic actions announced in December 2018. We continue to see room for future opportunistic credit product adjacencies. Institutional credit strategies had total assets of $14.9 billion as of September 30 and net inflows of $259 million in the third quarter, primarily driven by the closing a US CLO. We expect additional refinancing activity in the fourth quarter.

In addition, last month we priced our first collateralized bond offering, which utilized our capabilities across bond and loan investing. Once closed, the CBO will add around $270 million to AUM. We intend to opportunistically issue CBOs in the future. Our multi-strategy products had assets of $9.1 billion as of September 30. Net outflows in the third quarter were $351 million and approximately $83 million from the former executive managing directors. From October 1 to November 1, there were approximately $23 million of outflows from former executive managing directors.

Getting deeper into multi-strat, we had expectations that there would be inflows in 2019 and it has taken longer than our original expectation. I want to directly address the point we have alluded to many times. Simply put, the FCPA settlement cast a long shadow on the firm. The settlement, subsequent corporate events and reputational overhang of these matters are the primary reason why material inflows have not resumed in our core open ended funds. We have been aware of this negative impact and have taken necessary steps to address the issue and move the firm forward.

The firm that got into trouble 10 years ago in Africa does not exist today. Sculptor today has completely new management, compliance controls and governance structure. No one who was involved in the FCPA matter remains at the firm. We now have the team and governance structure in place that leave us highly confident not only that we will avoid regulatory problems in the future, but also that we can maintain a stable, professional and highly transparent investment organization. To mark this change, we have a new name which sends the message to our clients constituents that we have entered a new chapter. The firm has made necessary changes to demonstrate to potential clients that Sculptor is a prudent choice for capital allocation. Clients and potential clients have reacted positively to these changes, and while the length of the sales process means it will take time to see results. We feel confident now we've done everything we can to position the firm for success. We are excited to compete in the marketplace for new mandates on the merits of our team, track record, investment capability and client service.

With that, let me turn the call over to Tom to go through the financials.

Thanks, Rob, and good morning, everyone. As Elise mentioned at the beginning of the call and as you can see on page 9, we reported third quarter 2019 distributable earnings of $2.3 million. Adjusted distributable earnings for the quarter were $17.7 million and we declared a cash dividend of $0.03 per Class A share.

Turning to page 10, revenues were $93 million for the quarter, down 4% from the previous quarter and up 5% from the third quarter of 2018. Management fees were $59 million in the third quarter, up 3% from the previous quarter and 11% lower than the third quarter of 2018. The year-over-year decrease in management fees was primarily driven by lower multi-strategy assets and by the change in Sculptor Real Estate Fund III's management fee calculation from committed capital to invested capital. This was partially offset by increased assets in institutional credit strategies and opportunistic credit funds. The increase quarter-over-quarter was attributable to opportunistic credit and CLO inflows. Incentive income was $31 million in the third quarter, down 12% from the previous quarter and up 59% compared to the third quarter of 2018. Please note that given master fund's performance in 2018, we have a loss carry-forward in 2019. Our performance thus far into 2019 has us in a gain position, but this remains dependent on full-year performance.

As seen on page 11, as of the quarter end, our accrued but unrecognized incentive was $258 million, down $18 million or 6% from the prior quarter. The decrease was primarily driven by the recognition of $17 million of incentive in the third quarter. As a reminder, with the exception of the balance associated with our real estate funds, most of the remaining balance has no associated compensation expense as this was paid in earlier periods.

Turning to page 10, other revenues were $4 million in the third quarter, down 28% from the previous quarter and up 9% versus the third quarter of 2018.

Now turning to our operating expenses, for the third quarter 2019, total expenses were $91 million, up 39% from the previous quarter and down 5% versus the third quarter of 2018. Excluding the $19.1 million legal provision recorded in the third quarter of 2019 and $18.8 million in settlement expenses recorded in the third quarter 2018, total expenses were down $5 million or 6%. In the third quarter of 2019, compensation expense and benefit expense was $46 million, up 15% from the previous quarter and flat from the third quarter of 2018. Bonus expense was $27 million for the third quarter, up 29% from the previous quarter and up 9% from the third quarter of 2018. The increase was driven by a higher compensation payments associated with realized incentive income in the quarter. We continue to expect full-year minimum annual bonus for 2019 to be between $85 million and $90 million.

Salaries and benefits were $20 million for the third quarter, down 1% from the previous quarter and down 12% from the third quarter of 2018 due to lower head count. We continue to expect full-year 2019 salaries and benefits to be between $80 million and $85 million.

In the third quarter, general and administrative expenses were $42 million, up 90% from the previous quarter. Excluding the legal provision in the third quarter of 2019 and the settlement expense in the third quarter of 2018, G&A was down $2 million or 6%. We expect G&A to be between $85 million and $95 million in 2019. Please note this guidance excludes strategic action expenses and the legal provision.

Our interest expense was $2 million in the third quarter of 2019, down 14% from the previous quarter and 57% lower than third quarter of 2018 due to the reduction in our term loan balance. We continue to expect full-year 2019 interest expense to be between $10 million and $15 million.

Our guidance for the full-year 2019 tax receivable agreement and other payables as a corporation remains unchanged at 18% to 22%. As a reminder, tax estimates are subject to many variables that won't be finalized into the fourth quarter of the year and therefore can vary materially from the estimates provided.

Going back to the previously mentioned litigation reserve associated with the [ph] Africa (00:16:03) matter, based on the current facts, our African subsidiary accrued a $19.1 million provision due to the outstanding claim. There was no previous expense recorded in relation to the matter in prior periods. The provision is based on what accounting rules dictate and based on the detailed analysis undertaken by our team which includes external experts. We feel that we have strong arguments to make and look forward to presenting them to the court.

Now an update on the balance sheet. At quarter end, total cash, cash equivalents and long-term treasuries were $389 million. Subsequent to quarter end, we paid down the term loan by $5 million resulting in an outstanding balance of $45 million. We will continue to strengthen our balance sheet by using majority of our earnings after public shareholder dividends, to pay down our existing term loan followed by the new preferred and debt created as part of the strategic actions.

With that, let me turn it back over to Rob.

Thanks, Tom. To wrap it up, this has been a more difficult quarter for performance, but we remain highly confident with our strong year-to-date multi-strategy performance and longer term opportunistic credit performance. We've seen our strategies produce positive results across investment cycles and believe that this is aligned with clients' long-term objectives. We remain committed and focused on our core products and believe in their viability for our investors as evidenced by the strong demand and successful first close of Real Estate Fund IV. We continue to focus on our key objectives of performance, building out our distribution capabilities and managing our expense base.

With that, we will open up the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Bill Katz with Citi.

Okay, thank you very much. I apologize for any background noise. So just – thank you first of all for [ph] explaining this closely (00:18:20) it's very helpful. Maybe a question to Tom. So, on the litigation, how should we think about any upsides to that? I was just wondering if you could go into from the accounting side of things, is this what do you think is the full liability or how might we ring fence any sort of residual exposure to that.

Yeah, thanks, Bill. I mean this is our best current estimate of exposure in the case. It's informed by our internal work and external experts. We're continuing to work vigorously to defend the matter and unfortunately we're not at liberty to comment any further as it's open litigation.

Okay, and just on that, is it still a mid-December type of resolution in terms of the court proceedings or is there a different set of dates to be looking for?

We're not going to comment on the exact dates of the proceedings.

Okay, and maybe another one for you. In terms of – as you think about end of the year, I appreciate that we still got another month and a half to go in terms of performance and what have you, but how we should think about maybe variable compensation as a percentage of incentive compensation – in terms of revenues, excuse me?

Yeah. Bill, we don't guide our compensation as a percentage of revenue, especially on a quarterly basis, because our compensation is not realized depending on our strategies and our products at the same quarter. There can be differences in timing. So we don't guide a specific comp ratio.

Okay. And just maybe one last one, thanks for taking my questions this morning. Rob, maybe one for you. Just in terms of the frustration with the hedge fund platform not turning as fast you anticipated. That being said, if you look at your net flows ex some of the former employees [indiscernible] (00:20:16) flat now, as you think about 2020, maybe update us on your conversations you're having around the new distribution efforts and any incremental platforms that might be sort of an opportunity as well?

Yeah. Sure, Bill. Obviously, the actual results are pretty hard to predict, but I sort of stand by our thesis all along here. When we look at our products in the hedge fund space whether it's our multi-strategy product or our credit products, we feel very good about not only our performance of these products, but the timeliness of the products. What we've done over the course of this year is obviously addressed a lot of the overhang, the things that I talked about in my remarks regarding sort of things from our past, which I think culminated with a new name of the firm, which really, I think, is sending the message that this really is a new firm run by different people with a very, very tight governance structure. We have invested in our sales force. We've made senior hires pretty much across the globe in all three regions. We've gotten the Reg D waiver this year. We've made investments in our wealth platform as well.

So we feel good about the conversations, we feel good about the performance. It has taken longer than I expected it to and I want to be clear about that, but I still feel confident that over time if you have good products that makes sense for clients and good performance and we're getting that message out and we have addressed the issues that this firm had in its past history, I think ultimately we are going to prevail there. It's hard to predict exactly when that's going to happen, but I think we're doing all the right things and trending the right way.

Okay. Thank you. I'll hop back in the queue. [Operator Instructions]

I'm not showing any further questions. I will now turn the call over to Ms. King.

Thanks, Juanita. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today and for your interest in Sculptor Capital. If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact me at 212-719-7381. Media inquiries should be directed to Jonathan Gasthalter at 212-257-4170. Thank you.