corrected transcript


Seattle Genetics, Inc.
 
SGEN
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Seattle Genetics Second Quarter 2007 Financial and Business Update conference call. [Operator


Instructions]. This conference is being recorded, today, Wednesday July 25th of 2007. I will now


turn the conference over to Ms. Peggy Pinkston, Associate Director of Corporate Communications.


Please go ahead ma’am.


Peggy Pinkston, Associate Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you operator. I would like to welcome all of you to Seattle Genetics’ second quarter 2007


conference call. With me today are Clay Siegall, President and Chief Executive Officer, Todd


Simpson, Chief Financial Officer, and Eric Dobmeier, Chief Business Officer, and Tom Reynold,


Chief Medical Officer.


The press release of our financial results is available on our website. Today’s conference call will


include forward-looking statements based on current expectations. Such statements are only


predictions and actual results may vary materially from those projected. Please refer to the


documents that we file from time to time with the SEC and which are available on our website for


information concerning the factors that could affect the Company. I’ll now turn the call over to Clay.


Clay B. Siegall, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Peg, and thank you all for joining us this afternoon.


Seattle Genetics is well positioned to fully exploit a diverse pipeline of antibody therapeutics for


cancer. We have four product candidates in clinical development and in coordination with our


collaborators plan to initiate eight new trials across our portfolio over the next nine months,


particularly focused on SGN-40, SGN-33 and SGN-35. We also intend to file an IND for a fifth


antibody product, SGN-70 in the first half of 2008. We’re investing our resources on a strategic


development plan for programs with therapeutic promise and the potential to provide the greatest


clinical benefit to shareholder return.


During this conference call, I will discuss the progress we are making on our pipeline, creating what


we believe is the most substantial corporate momentum and shareholder value to date. Then Todd


will go over the financial details for the second quarter and first six months of 2007 and our


expectations for the rest of this year. With SGN-40, we are working closely with our collaborator


Genentech on a multifaceted development plan that includes advancing SGN-40 into five new


clinical trails over the next nine months in non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and multiple myeloma. Our


Phase II single-agent clinical trail in relapse diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is ongoing and we


expect to complete enrollment in the first half of 2008. This study is designed to enroll


approximately 40 patients and will assess the anti-tumor activity, tolerability and pharmacokinetic


profile of SGN-40 in the most common type of aggressive non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. In addition, we


are planning two clinical trials for patients with relapse diffuse large B-cell lymphoma to assess the


safety and activity of SGN-40 in combination with regimen commonly used in the setting. These


trials include a Phase IIb randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trail of Rituxan ICE or


RICE plus or minus SGN-40 in approximately 200 second-line patients and a Phase Ib clinical trial


of SGN-40 plus Rituxan Gemzar in patients with relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma who are


not eligible for intensive therapy. We also intend to initiate a Phase Ib study to evaluate safety and


preliminary activity of the combination of SGN-40 plus Rituxan in relapsed indolent non-Hodgkin’s


lymphoma. We have previously reported data demonstrating the synergistic effects of SGN-40 and


Rituxan in pre-clinical models and look forward to exploring the potential of this combination in


clinical settings.
corrected transcript


Seattle Genetics, Inc.
 
SGEN
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 25, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In multiple myeloma, we have two Phase Ib trials planned to assess the safety and preliminary


activity of SGN-40 in combination with existing therapies. Combining SGN-40 with these therapies


may result in meaningful improvement in the treatment of this incurable disease. One of the studies


will assess the combination of SGN-40 plus Revlimid and low-dose dexamethasone. The other will


examine the combination of SGN-40 plus Velcade. Our collaboration with Genentech is enabling us


to expand both the scope and number of studies we can conduct with SGN-40. We believe these


trials will help expedite and facilitate the future development and regulatory pathways for this agent


and provide a strong foundation to support the use of SGN-40 as a part of standard regimens for


both NHL and multiple myeloma, which remain important, and unmet medical needs.


It is important from a financial perspective to keep in mind that Seattle Genetics is reimbursed by


Genentech for the costs associated with the SGN-40 program and we also receive milestones for


clinical trial initiations. These financial resources allow us to broaden and leverage our capabilities


across the rest of our product pipeline including SGN-33, SGN-35 and SGN-70. SGN-33 are


monoclonal antibody targeting CD33 is in a phase I single agent study in acute myeloid leukemia or


AML and myelodysplastic syndromes or MDS. Approval is complete in the dose escalation portion


of this study and we plan to submit an abstract for presentation at the American Society of


Hematology Annual Meeting in December. Based on the promising data we have observed so far,


we are planning to expand accrual into Phase Ib portion of this study to further define the single


agent response rate of SGN-33. We are encouraged by our data and are evaluating single agent


Phase II study design with SGN-33 in AML and MDS in addition to exploring combination regimens.


Our first combination study is a Phase I trial of SGN-33 plus Revlimid in intermediate and high risk


MDS patients. This study recently opened for accrual and patient screening is underway. It is


designed to assess the tolerability, pharmacokinetic profile and anti-tumor activity of increasing


doses of SGN-33 when combined with Revlimid. Research has shown that Revlimid can enhance


the activity of monoclonal antibodies by augmenting antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity or


ADCC making this is a potentially attractive combination therapy for MDS. The study will be


conducted under a clinical research agreement with Celgene where by Seattle Genetics will run the


clinical trial and Celgene will supply Revlimid to study participants. The companies will share


clinical data but Seattle Genetics retain all rights to SGN-33. Later this year we plan to initiate a


Phase IIb randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study of low-dose cytarabine plus or minus


SGN-33 in patients with AML. The study will accrue over 200 newly diagnosed AML patients, 60


years of age and older who are ineligible for work or decline intensive chemotherapy. There is an


unmet need for therapies that can prolong survival, improve quality of life and reduce infections,


hospitalizations and blood transfusion in this patient population. We believe that SGN-33 may fill a


substantial therapeutic need for older AML patients who are particularly sensitive to the toxic effects


of chemotherapy.


The next product candidate we are advancing is SGN-35, our proprietary antibody drug conjugate


for CD30 positive hematologic malignancies, notably Hodgkin’s disease. SGN-35 utilizes the


targeting ability of a monoclonal antibody directed to CD30 to deliver its highly potent or a statin


drug payload directly to tumor cells. Patient accrual and dose escalation are proceeding very well in


the Phase I study in which we are evaluating the safety, pharmacokinetic profile and anti-tumor


activity of SGN-35. SGN-35 represents a promising, emerging class of empowered antibody-based


therapies that we believe has the potential to significantly impact the way cancer and other serious


diseases are treated today. We plan to report clinical data from this study at the American Society


of Hematology annual meeting in December.


In addition to our internal ADC programs, our ADC collaborators are also making strong progress.


During the second quarter, we received two milestone payments from Genentech based on their


continued progress in preclinical development with ADCs utilizing our technology. CuraGen,


Progenics, MedImmune and Bayer also continue to advance their ADC product candidates.