raw transcript


Seattle Genetics, Inc.
 
SGEN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Seattle Genetics' Fourth


Quarter and Fiscal Yearend 2004 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a


listen-only mode. Following today's presentation, instructions will be given for the question and


answer session. If anyone needs assistance at anytime, during today's conference, please press


the "star" followed by the "zero." As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Tuesday,


February 8th 2005.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Eric Dobmeier, Vice President of Corporate


Affairs. Please go ahead, sir.


Eric L. Dobmeier, General Counsel & Vice President of Corporate Affairs


Thanks for joining us today for Seattle Genetics' fourth quarter and year 2004 financial results and


business update conference call. With me, on the call, are Clay Siegall, our President and Chief


Executive Officer, and Tim Carroll, our Chief Financial Officer. We'd like to take this opportunity to


update you on our clinical and preclinical programs, our business development activities, and our


plans for 2005. We'll also provide financial guidance for 2005 and 2006 and then open the call for


questions.


Before we get started, let me point out that today's conference call will include forward-looking


statements based on current expectations. Actual results may vary from those projected.


Additional information concerning the factors that could cause our results to differ can be found in


our SEC filings.


With that, I'll turn the call over to Clay Siegall.


Clay B. Siegall, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Eric. 2004 was a productive year for Seattle Genetics, as we made substantial progress in


many areas of our business. We advanced our pipeline by conducting clinical trials of three


product candidates in six different diseases. SGN-30 is in phase II studies in systematic anaplastic


large cell lymphoma, or ALCL, cutaneous ALCL, and Hodgkin's disease. SGN-15 is in phase II


biomarker study in non-small cell lung cancer. And SGN-40 is in phase I studies in multiple


myeloma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We also advanced our preclinical programs forward


during 2005 and expect to have at least two new product candidates enter clinical trials over the


next two years.


Our antibody-drug conjugates, or ADC, technology increases the potency of antibodies by safely


linking them to cell-killing drugs. We utilize this technology in our internal pipeline as well as


partner it with leading biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. During 2004, we expanded


our existing ADC collaborations with Genentech and Protein Design Labs and entered into new


ADC collaborations with CuraGen and Bayer. These deals are valuable to us, because they


provide near-term cash flow and the opportunity to earn future milestones and royalties that can


offset our internal expenses. Also in 2004, we entered into a co-development agreement with


Celera Genomics and in-licensed antibody and associated patterns to Imperial College in London.


These types of deals further fuel our early-stage pipeline.
raw transcript


Seattle Genetics, Inc.
 
SGEN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We ended 2004 in a strong financial position with roughly $106 million in cash, which allows us to


continue to aggressively advance our pipeline in 2005 and beyond. At our projected cash-spend,


we have more than two years of capital without conducting any additional finances.


Next, I'd like to walk through each of our lead clinical and preclinical programs in more details.


First, SGN-30. This is an antibody targeting CD30 that we are investigating in ongoing phase II


clinical trials for both systematic and cutaneous ALCL, which are T-cell lymphomas, and for


Hodgkin's disease. In the systematic ALCL phase II study, we have shown that SGN-30 is well


tolerated and has objective antitumor activities. At ASH, we reported the first six evaluable


patients. Two exhibited objective responses, including one complete response and one partial


response. In this indication, patient accrual is challenging, because ALCL is a rare type of


lymphoma. However, we are continuing to add patients and are expanding the study into


approximately 50 sites in both United States and Europe. We plan to report data from this ongoing


study at ASCO in May as well as at ASH in December.


We are also enrolling patients in the cutaneous ALCL studies, which we initiated in September.


Cutaneous ALCL is a type of T-cell lymphoma that involves the skin. We are evaluating the


antitumor activity and tolerability of SGN-30 in patients, who have relapsed or are resistant to prior


therapies. This phase II study is ongoing at multiple sites in the US. In the Hodgkin's disease


studies, we have rapidly enrolled a sufficient number of patients at 12 milligrams per kilogram to


reach our interim analysis point. These are heavily pre-treated patients with progressive disease,


who receive SGN-30 for six consecutive weeks, followed by a four-week observation period. We


plan to report data from the Hodgkin's study at ASCO and to complete interim data analysis by


midyear. Our experience with Hodgkin's disease is that it is more difficult to treat than T-cell


lymphomas due to the heterogeneous and fibrotic nature of the tumors in patients with advanced


disease.


We are currently exploring strategies to evaluate SGN-30 in earlier stage disease, including front-


line patients. We are also looking for ways to extend our SGN-30 program into other clinical


settings, including combination studies with chemotherapy and potential use in immunologic


disease. In preclinical models, SGN-30 in combination with conventional chemotherapeutics


results in synergistic antitumor activity. We are planning a study of SGN-30 in combination with the


chemotherapy regimen ABVD in Hodgkin's disease in the second half of this year. In addition,


supported by the strong safety profile of SGN-30 in our oncology trials, we are looking at


opportunities to conduct clinical studies in immunologic disease.


The next program that I'd like to discuss is SGN-40, a humanized antibody that targets CD40,


which is an antigen as widely expressed on B-cell hematologic malignancies as well as several


solid tumors. We recently announced that we've been awarded patents to the composition of


matter and methods of using anti-CD40 antibodies for the treatment of cancer. We are conducting


two phase I studies of SGN-40, one in multiple myeloma and another in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.


These are both single-agent, dose escalation studies. Cohorts of at least three patients receive


four weekly doses of SGN-40 and are followed for a six – for six weeks post-treatment. We


reported data from the first 10 patients in the multiple myeloma study at ASH, indicating that SGN-


40 is well tolerated at low doses. At enrollment, the patients had progressive or refractory disease


and a median of five prior therapies.


Multiple myeloma is an incurable disease, for which existing therapies have significant toxicity. So


a targeted therapy, such as SGN-40, would be beneficial to these patients. We treated our first


non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patient in late 2004. The study is evaluating SGN-40 in patients with both


aggressive and indolent form of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Eligible patients must have


relapsed or refractory disease. We are evaluating multiple lymphoma targets, including diffused


large B-cell lymphoma, mantle cell, follicular, small, lymphocytic, and marginal zone lymphomas.


We expect to report data from these ongoing SGN-40 studies at ASCO.