raw transcript


Seattle Genetics, Inc.
 
SGEN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Seattle Genetics Third


Quarter Financial and Business update Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-


only mode. Following today's presentations instructions will be given for the questions and answers


session. If anyone needs assistance at any time during the conference please press the star


followed by the zero. As a reminder, this conference is being reported Tuesday October 25,2005. I


would now like to turn the conference over to Peggy Pinkston Associate Director of Corporate


Communication. Please go ahead, ma'am.


Peggy Pinkston, Associate Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you. I would like to welcome all of you to Seattle Genetics' third quarter and year 2004


financial results and business update conference call. With me on the call are Clay Siegall, our


President and CEO, and Todd Simpson, our Chief Financial Officer. Today, we will provide an


update on our clinical and preclinical programs, review our financial results for the quarter and year-


to-date and discuss our near term activity. Afterwards we will open the call for questions. Before we


get started, let me remind you that today's conference call will include forward-looking statements


based on current expectations. Such statements are only predictions and actual results may vary


materially from those projected. Please refer to the documents that we file from time to time with


the SEC, for information concerning the factors that could affect the company. And with that I will


turn the call over to Clay.


Clay Siegall, President & CEO


Thanks Peggy. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to further introduce Todd Simpson as our


new Chief Financial Officer. Our former CFO Tim Carroll retired earlier this month. I would like to


thank him for more than five years at Seattle Genetics


and wish him well retirement. Todd brings to Seattle Genetics a great deal of biotech experience in


public companies. I have known him for many years and I am delighted to have him as part of the


team. I look forward to having Todd's industry experience and insight included as part of our


strategic planning as well as in participation in the company's external presence. I will start this


morning with the discussion of the progress we are making with our preclinical stage program SGN-


30, SGN-40 and SGN-33. We are focusing the majority of our resources on advancing these


programs, and we expect to report clinical data of this coming year in all three product candidates. I


will then cover some highlights of our preclinical program, our ADC technology platform and our


business development activities before I turn the call over to Todd to discuss our financial results.


SGN-30 is our lead clinical program. We treated nearly a hundred patients to date with SGN-30 and


have seen a clean safety profile, an objective ant-tumor activity, including multiple, complete and


partial responses. Currently SGN-30 is in ongoing Phase II clinical trial for systemic anaplastic large


cell lymphoma or ALCL, and for cutaneous ALCL, both of these cell lymphoma through simulated


studies in relapse for refractory patients. Our clinical development strategy for SGN-30 is to focus


on Systemic ALCL as the registrational pathway. We plan to meet with the FDA in the first half of


2006 to discuss pivotal trial designs and make the fast track status for SGN-30 in the future.


Our media focus with SGN-30 is on patient accrual. Although ALCL is a relatively rare type of


lymphoma, patients with relapsed or refractory disease have limited treatment options. We are


continuing to add patients and are conducting these studies at over 40 sites across the United


States and Europe. We plan to report on our progress with the SGN-30 program at ASH in
raw transcript


Seattle Genetics, Inc.
 
SGEN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


December. In addition, while systemic ALCL provides a potential registration pass for SGN-30, we


believe a much broader market opportunity exists for the product candidate. This includes SGN-30


in combination with chemotherapy for patients with Hodgkin's disease. We are planning to initiate a


combination study in the first half of 2006.


We are also ending our cutaneous ALCL protocol to include two new related indications. CD-30


positive transforms, mycosis fungoides and lymphomatoid papulosis or LYP. Because CD-30, the


target SGN-30, is expressed some activative T-cells, we also believe that SGN-30 has potential in


the treatment of certain immunologic disease. We are evaluating diseases including severe and


[indiscernible], which could significantly expand the therapeutic potential of SGN-30. We are


targeting the first half of 2006 for expanding SGN-30 into one or more autoimmune trial.


I will now turn to SGN-40, a product candidate we are excited about both because of its potential to


treat many of the most prevalent hematalogic malignancies and because of the early signs of


activity we had observed in the clinic. We are currently testing SGN-40 in Phase I clinical trials for


multiple myeloma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Both of these trials at pseudo agents dose


escalation studies in patients with relapsed or refractory disease.


At the ASCO Annual Meeting in May, we reported preliminary data that showed indications of


activity in multiple myeloma patients, including decreasing serum M-proteins, neuroprotein and T-


cell levels during the treatment cycle in several patients. Due to indications that we were inducing


cytokine release especially with the process, we amended the multiple myeloma protocol as well as


the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma protocol to attenuate this attack following the perfusion. Both SGN-40


trials are accruing patients at escalating doses under the revised protocol and we look forward to


provide you an update on these ongoing studies at the ASH meeting in December. We also expect


to initiate SGN-40 trials in chronic lymphocytic leukemia or CLL by the end of the year.


Looking forward, our goal is to advance SGN-40 into one or more Phase II clinical trials by the


second half of 2006, based on data from the ongoing Phase I studies in multiple myeloma, and


non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We also recently announced that we have been issued another patent


on our SGN-40 programs. This patent covers the antibody itself, and is an addition to two patterns


we received earlier this year covering composition of matter and methods of using anti-CD 40


antibodies for the treatment of cancer. We are continuing to build a strong high key position around


this program.


Our third clinical stage program is SGN-33, a humanized antibody to CD 33 that we in-license from


Protein Design Labs earlier this year. We believe there is untapped potential for this antibody in the


treatment of CD 33 positive hematologic malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia or AML,


and myelodysplastic syndrome or MDS. In our planned clinical trial, we've looked for ways to


optimize both the dose and administration schedule of SGN-33. While previous studies at this


antibody showed activity, there are several reasons why we believe those trials were suboptimal.


First, the antibody was given at relatively low doses, as little as one-fifth to one-tenth dose levels,


typically used in approved antibody-based therapies. We will initiate our clinical investigation in a


Phase I dose escalation trial, because we believe SGN-33 can potentially demonstrate greater


activity at higher doses. Second, in a completed Phase III study with this antibody, patients


received treatments immediately after induction of chemotherapy when their immune systems were


suppressed. So, SGN-33 as an antibody with potent effector function, we believe this sequence of


administration did not take advantage of its potential anti-tumor activity. And third, we planned to


explore a broad set of indications, including MDS in less aggressive settings of AML. We look


forward to getting this study underway this quarter.


I would like to move now towards three lead pre-clinical programs, and provide a brief summary of


our key initiatives. We expect one pre-clinical program to advance in its clinical trials in each of the


next three years. SGN-35 is a primary antibody drug conjugate utilizing our second-generation ADC


technologies. We have worked for many years with ADC technology and made significant