corrected transcript


Swift Energy Co.
 
SFY
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Jack and I’ll be your conference operator today. At this time I


would like to welcome everyone to the Swift Energy First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All


lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise and after the speakers’ remarks


there’ll be a question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


It is my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mr. Scott Espenshade. Sir you may begin.


Scott A. Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Good morning. I’m Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations. I


would like to welcome everyone to Swift Energy’s first quarter 2007 earnings conference call. In


today’s call Terry Swift, Chairman and CEO, will provide an overview; Alton Heckaman, Executive


Vice President and CFO, will review the financial results for the first quarter; and then Bruce


Vincent, President, will provide an operational update. Terry Swift will then summarize before we


open it up to questions. Also present on the call are Joe D’Amico, Executive Vice President and


COO, Mike Kitterman, Senior Vice President, Operations; and Jim Mitchell, Senior Vice President,


Commercial Transactions.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let me remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-


looking statements based on our current assumption, estimates and projections about us, our


industry and the current environment in which we operate. These statements involve risks and


uncertainties detailed in our SEC reports and our actual results could differ materially. We expect


our presentation to take approximately 25 to 30 minutes and we will have ample time for questions.


With that I would like to turn it over to Terry.


Terry E. Swift, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Scott. Again, thank you for joining this morning’s conference call. The industry experienced


slower commodity prices in the first quarter 2007 for the first time in several quarters. At the same


time a cost momentum wave, which has been building in the industry over the past two years,


appears to be nearing its peak. Lower commodity prices, together with rising costs, resulted in


lower margins for energy industry participants.


Given these fundamentals our net income decreased 26% to $27.6 million for the first quarter 2007


as compared to the same period in 2006. We also had a 1% decrease in cash flow to $90.6 million


for the first quarter of 2007, again compared to the first quarter of 2006. Our production for the first


quarter of 2007 was up 6% to 17.5 Bcfe equivalent for the quarter, again compared to the


comparable quarter in 2006, while average domestic commodity prices were down 7% and costs


had increased approximately 19%.


Swift Energy’s principal goal for 2007 is to continue our legacy of growth by meeting our production


and reserve targets. Swift Energy expects to grow production in the range of 7 to 10% organically


and reserves by 4 to 6% in 2007. We believe the continued execution of our 2007 plans will again


deliver solid performance to our shareholders. The industry looks at the start of 2007 much the way


we looked at 2006 and the beginning of 2005, an oil and gas pricing environment with uncertain


supply and demand data points, the potential for supply disruptions and interruptions and a growing


US economy. Although the US growth is slower than experienced in recent quarters, industry


experts are now beginning to believe that the energy-pricing environment is sustainable, but again


with high levels of volatility.
corrected transcript


Swift Energy Co.
 
SFY
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Crude oil prices today are in the range of $65 per barrel and the 12-month strip is approximately


$68.50 per barrel. Natural gas is in the range of $7.80 per Mcf, with the 12-month strip nearly $1


more at $8.60 per Mcf. Still, the energy sector has not yet seen energy sector evaluations, which


reflect the historical, long-term mean estimates and earnings and cash flow multiples, which of


course typically occur once a sustainable pricing environment is realized.


At Swift Energy we’ve always taken a long-term view and will continue to do what is in the best


interest of our long-term stakeholders. We have begun showcasing part of our technology initiative,


which complements Swift Energy’s core competencies, regional focus and use of our technology


skills in subsurface geology and engineering. For several years Swift Energy has been building a


merged seismic data set across South Louisiana to provide us with the tools to access more


material reserve packages that have not yet been previously seen or explored for.


The acquisition of the five additional South Louisiana fields from BP in the fourth quarter of 2006


further expands our exploitation and exploration footprint in South Louisiana and enhances our


opportunity set. We plan to continue our focus on development opportunities to drive cash flow and


to test exploration opportunities developed from our merged 3D data sets to further drive reserves


and production growth. We started 2007 with another exciting exploration discovery achieved


through our technology-led strategy, the Faria prospect in Bay de Chene.


Swift Energy will continue to utilize our technology, skill sets and the data sets we have created to


enhance and de-risk our drilling programs as much as possible. We plan to drill up to three more


exploration wells this year in our South Louisiana region. At Swift Energy we continue to focus on


the measures that we can control. As mentioned earlier, we expect to see costs moderate some


over the course of the year. We recognize that costs have risen on a per-unit basis over the past


year and outpaced the commodity price environment.


We’re working, as is the whole industry, to better align our costs with the current pricing


environment. We have the opportunity set to spend more capital on growth projects, but we’re


holding the line on spending increases until we get further confirmation on the components of our


margins, such as commodity pricing and costs. We believe that both of these components will be


trending positive for Swift Energy and the industry. Because of the current commodity-pricing


environment, we expect excellent returns, with capital spending balanced or under our expected


cash flow.


We continue to keep investment capital available for discretionary spending, which we will only


spend with the realization of our operational success and supportable commodity pricing. Swift


Energy is maintaining its original 2007 CapEx budget in the range of 350 to $400 million. Execution


of our operational strategy in 2007 should result in another great year for Swift Energy Company.


Our oil and gas professionals have an excellent set of opportunities from which we can increase


our reserves and production for the company. Swift Energy’s South Louisiana region now with eight


fields will continue to be the focal point of our spending plans and our near-term growth


expectations.


With that, I’d like Alton to present the first quarter 2007 financial results.


Alton D. Heckaman, Jr., Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Terry, and good morning. I’m pleased to report that Swift Energy begins 2007 with


another strong quarter. Revenues for 1Q’07 were 141.1 million, up 4% over 1Q’06. Net income was


27.6 million and diluted EPS came in at $0.90, while cash flow before working capital changes


decreased slightly to $2.97 per diluted share. Production for 1Q’07, as Terry said, increased 6% to