corrected transcript


Swift Energy Co.
 
SFY
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Swift Energy’s First Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speaker’s remark, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Paul Vincent, Manager of Investor Relations. You


may begin.


Paul Vincent, Manager, Investor Relations


Good morning. I’m Paul Vincent, Manager of Investor Relations. I’d like to welcome everyone to


Swift Energy’s first quarter 2009 earnings conference call. On today’s call, Terry Swift, Chairman


and CEO will provide an overview. Alton Heckaman, EVP and CFO will review the financial results


for the fourth quarter. Then Bruce Vincent, President and Bob Banks, EVP and COO will provide an


operational update. Terry Swift will then summarize before we open it up to questions. Also present


on today’s call is Mike Kitterman, SVP of Operations.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let me remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-


looking statements based on our current assumptions, estimates, and projections about us, our


industry, and the current environment in which we operate. These statements involve risks and


uncertainties detailed in our SEC reports to which we refer you, along with cautionary statements


contained in our press release and our actual results could differ materially. We expect our


presentation to take approximately 25 to 30 minutes, and have allowed additional time for


questions.


Terry E. Swift, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman


Thanks, Paul. Thank you again for joining this morning’s conference call as we review Swift


Energy’s first quarter 2009 results. While the global economic and commodity price picture remain


weak during the first quarter, we’ve recently seen signs that the sentiment maybe beginning to


improve.


Crude oil prices have in fact improved from their lows in February although the natural gas prices


have stayed weak as demand has softened and activity has just recently begun to slow. Rig counts


continue to decrease during the quarter, which will also help the supply and demand end balance in


the future. We expect to see an overall decrease of US domestic natural gas supplies before year-


end. We think that’s a very strategic assessment, right now.


We have witnessed over 30, we have seen 30 years of business activity. The Company will be


celebrating its 30 anniversary later this year in the fall. And we know that lower energy prices have


generally contributed in a significant way to economic growth. We’ve also seen the federal


government follow through on its commitment to supply liquidity to a variety of markets. Should


these combinations of significantly reduced energy prices and government support be effective, we


should see a pick up in economic activity at some point, which will begin to reverse the energy


demand and usage declines that we have seen.


In this light, Swift Energy is balancing its efforts to protect our balance sheet, and insure liquidity in


a poor economic and operational environment with the flexibility to act and deploy capital quickly


when the economy and the commodity-pricing environment improve. We have begun to see oil field


drilling and service costs decrease, but we know that these costs can and will continue to move


downward until they more accurately reflect the current oil and natural gas pricing environment.
corrected transcript


Swift Energy Co.
 
SFY
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As stated in previous calls, we have a conservative approach to the financial side of our business.


During the first quarter, we worked closely with our banking group to successfully redetermine our


revolving credit facility. Times are not only difficult in our industry, but in the financial sector as well.


We are thankful to be working with a group of Banks who have fared well during this recent turmoil


in the financial markets.


With the borrowing base of $300 million, and only $224 million drawn on our line as of the end of


April, we have access to sufficient capital to continue our basic business activity and maintain our


strategic opportunities. If the environment were to deteriorate further from here, we still have


running room, but would obviously consider further defensive measures such as further cost


cutting, monetization of strategic acreage and deferral of other growth plans. Alton and Bob will


provide some more details on this in just a few moments.


In a time when the capital markets are not functioning efficiently, we have many more projects and


our internally generated cash flows will allow us to develop on our own. We’re also evaluating


potential of including industry partners in some of our plans. We believe that we have a tremendous


strategic value in our resource play acreage and our deep gas prospects. This value can be tapped


and accelerated with the right financial help and operating partners.


Operationally, even with the significantly reduced capital spending budget and activity levels, Swift


did have an excellent quarter. Bob and Bruce will review our activity in a bit. But first, I would like to


touch on the highlights of the quarter. Operational highlights of the quarter include the successful


hook up of the state lease 18669 number one exploration well at the Shasta prospect in our


Southeast Louisiana core area.


Developing an idea into an exploration prospect and seeing it ultimately on production is very


rewarding. This well is now flowing to sales through the West Side Facility in Lake Washington.


These types of projects always serve as a remind with the people in our organization are the true


value creators and they grow that they grow the assets that they work. We continue to evaluate our


large regional 3-D data set in southeast Louisiana and have developed a number of exciting


opportunities and the Bay de Chene and Lake Washington fairway area.


Recovery from damage caused during the 2008 hurricane season in Bay de Chene has


progressed, but there’s still work left to be done. Some natural gas has been restored but the


Company currently has approximately 1,500 to 2,000 net barrels of oil equivalent per day of shut-in


production awaiting facility repairs in Bay de Chene.


As we near the 20 anniversary of our operations in AWP in our south Texas core area, we have


begun utilizing new drilling and completion technologies, which may allow us to be active in this drill


for 20 plus years. Our first horizontal well in the Olmos formation, the Robert Bracken 33H well


continues to perform in line with our predrilled models. This performance encourages us as we


proceed to drill our next horizontal well in this area during second quarter.


This next well will also be located in the southern portion of the field, and should support an


extension of the productive limits of AWP itself. Just as importantly, this next well will cost


approximately $2 million less than the first horizontal well, the Robert Bracken 33H.


We continue to analyze the potential that all of the south Texas acreage has for both the Eagle


Ford shale formation and other emerging plays. Bob will discuss our land position in greater detail,


but I am pleased with the work our folks have done to grow our Olmos and Eagle Ford positions at


a very attractive price.


We are planning to drill at least one well in 2009 to test the Eagle Ford shale formation no our


acreage. For the duration of 2009 and beyond, we will make prudent capital and operations