corrected transcript


Swift Energy Company
 
SFY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Swift Energy Company First


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time all parties have been placed in a listen-only mode


and we will open the floor for questions following the presentation. At this time it is my pleasure to


turn the floor over to your host, Scott Espenshade. Please go ahead, sir.


Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning. I'm Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor


Relations, and I would like to welcome everyone to Swift Energy's First Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. Terry Swift, CEO will give an overview. Alton Heckaman, our Executive Vice


President and CFO will then review the financial results for the first quarter. Joe D'Amico, our


Executive Vice President and COO will cover our recent domestic activity and then Bruce Vincent;


President will update our New Zealand operations. Terry Swift will then recap before we open it up


to questions.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-looking


statements based on our current assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry.


These statements involve risks and uncertainties detailed in our SEC reports. Our actual results


could differ materially. We expect our presentation today to take approximately 20 to 25 minutes


and will allow the additional time for questions. With that I would like to turn it over to Terry.


Terry E. Swift, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks, Scott. And thank you again for joining this morning's conference call. I believe that several


themes are developing in the 2005 commodity markets that obviously have a direct effect on the


E&P sector. The first question is the sustainability of the strong commodity market. The strong


pricing has certainly had an effect -- a positive effect on the sector and our Company's earnings for


the first quarter, which we delivered first quarter record levels of income. Also, with the commodity


price increases we were seeing pressure on oil field service costs and again, this is affecting E&P


companies as well including us.


I'll touch briefly on each of these items. But first let me cover some of the highlights of this


morning's first quarter earnings release. For the 12th straight quarters Swift has beat consensus


earning estimates. Management believes that earnings are a strong and primary metric for long-


term shareholder value, and we're proud of our track record on earnings. We had earnings this


quarter of $0.89 per diluted share and cash flow of $2.39 per share. These results were delivered


primarily because of the strong commodity markets and because corporate production continues to


increase year-over-year. We brought in 15.5 Bcf equivalent this quarter. I'll have Alton, Joe and


Bruce discuss in more detail our financial and operational results for this quarter.


Going back to the commodity price environment, I think it's important for us to realize that there are


certain reasons that underlie the strength that we see in commodity prices and I'd like to touch on


these briefly.


First of all, we do believe that the U.S. dollar is weak, relative to global currencies and will remain


weak throughout the year. U.S. economic growth is also relatively strong given the downturn in


some sectors, but 3.1% GDP growth is certainly a good number to bring in and we certainly think


that this is going to be a good year for energy consumption. We also see on the international front,


manufacturing and specifically economies that have infrastructure energy needs continuing to put


upward pressure on the demand side.
corrected transcript


Swift Energy Company
 
SFY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Finally, one of the strong and important elements of-- that give the fundamentals to this commodity


market is the issue of additional capacity or additional supply that's available to global markets and


of course with that additional capacity shrinking over time and that capacity being a lower quality


crude oil, we believe that all of these things lead us to the higher price environment that we're in


today principally being $50 crude oil market.


On the natural gas side, we have to recognize that natural gas, though it's linked to crude oil, is


fundamentally driven by U.S. domestic economic growth and is weather-related in terms of


demand. Conversely, downward pressure is currently being exerted on natural gas prices due to


the higher storage inventories. Yet even with this downward pressure, natural gas is still trading


near the $7 mark on the 12-month strip.


With these higher price decks it's not a time for us to be complacent. We have important strategic


operational results to achieve. We also have cost pressures due to the commodity markets that


we've got to manage. In 2005 we increased our capital budget 10% due to the oil field inflation at --


that we saw at the beginning of the year, but we've continued to see cost pressures from the


service sector. Recently we've added an additional $20 million to our 2005 budget, both because


we're forecasting higher cash flows, and to help us account for these uncertainties in the cost side


of our business. Particularly those resulting from day rate increases for drilling rigs.


Because of the commodity price environment, we do expect these increases to be greatly offset


with excellent returns. We continue to maintain a discretionary wedge in our capital budget, which


we will only spend as we realize the positive impacts of this higher commodity price environment


and as we realize our operational success.


With our planned activity levels, we anticipate our 2005 capital expenditures to be in the range of


$220 to $240 million. Still well below the cash flows we expect for this year given a $6 per Mcf and


a $45 per barrel price deck. We continue to deliver value through our operating results. For the first


quarter production increased year-over-year 9%. This increase was despite a third party pipeline


interruption that occurred in the first quarter that has since been fixed. Facility upgrades in Lake


Washington are also important to our annual results this year, and we expect these to be


completed in the third quarter as planned. This focus on production has allowed the Company to


capture value from the higher commodity prices, but we also have a keen focus on reserves as


well. And we believe Swift Energy Company can deliver 7% to 12% reserve and production growth


this year.


Our 3D seismic data in South Louisiana together with our Tarata Thrust prospects in New Zealand


have enhanced our drilling portfolio. This diversified drilling portfolio positions the Company for


some higher impact exploratory drilling opportunities in 2005 as well as expanded exploitation


results for the Company. Proper execution of our operational strategy in 2005 should bring us a


very good year. Our South Louisiana plants call for more wells that will be impactful not only for


production, but also for reserves especially in Lake Washington. And we now have a new partner,


Mighty River Power, and together we will test meaningful exploration potential in New Zealand.


Layering this commodity pricing environment with our current outlook, we believe we'll deliver


another year of excellent returns and increased long-term value to the shareholder. With that I'd like


to turn it over to Alton to present the quarter's financial results.


Alton D. Heckaman, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Terry and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to reiterate that Swift had its best first


quarter in the history of the Company. Revenues were almost 96 million, up 46%. Production for 1Q


'05 rose 9% to 15.5 Bcf equivalent as Terry said. Net income was 25.7 million, up 76%. Diluted