raw transcript


Swift Energy Co
 
SFY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Swift Energy Company


Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants have been placed on a


listen-only mode. And the floor will be open for questions following the presentation. It is now my


pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development


and Investor Relations. Sir you may begin.


Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Thank you, Ian. Good morning everyone, as Ian mentioned to, I'm Scott Espenshade, Director of


Corporate Development and Investor Relations. I'd like to welcome everyone to Swift Energy's


second quarter 2005 earnings conference call. Terry Swift, our CEO, will provide an overview, then


Alton Heckaman, Executive Vice President and CFO will review the financial results for the second


quarter. Joe D'Amico, Executive Vice President and COO will cover our recent domestic activity.


And then Bruce Vincent, President, will update our New Zealand operations. Terry Swift will then


recap before we open it up for questions.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let me remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-


looking statements based on our current assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our


industry. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, detailed in our SEC reports. And our


actual results could differ materially. We expect our presentation to take approximately 25 to 30


minutes and have allowed additional time for questions. With that, I'd like to turn it over to Terry.


Terry Swift, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks, Scott. And again, thank you for joining this morning's conference call. The same themes


that were highlighted in our first quarter earnings conference call can still hold true today and, in


fact, are becoming more and more visible. Obviously the commodity pricing environment is held


strong and is expected to improve even more through the rest of the year. Our production, our


corporate production, continues to grow. Our cash margins – that is our cash margins, continue to


increase, as well. Yet, we know that we've got to keep a watchful eye on our costs, we're watching


how well costs increase. We're doing those things you would expect us to be vigilant as this cost


increases come and I believe they will continue to come. For example, we do see higher costs


manifesting themselves in our future development costs. We will talk more about that this morning.


Higher commodity prices over the foreseeable future is in fact, with the oil and gas markets are


telling us. As is demonstrated in the forward strip for 2006, we see oil averaging – excuse me,


$64.50 a barrel for crude oil and over $8.50 Mcf for natural gas. The question remains for certain


enthusiasts that want to know what the reversion to the mean is. What is the new norm? What is


the average? What should we expect? And what are those expectations as relate to historical price


levels? Well I can assure you that Swift Energy Company is well positioned to capture value going


forward. We're in a new-era of energy demand. It's outpacing supply. Higher costs have clearly


follow suit with these increases. We're in a tremendously exciting and challenging environment as


an oil and gas company. Swift Energy Company, I believe, has many important competitive


advantages versus our peers. One of which is the quality and diversity of our proven and probable


reserve basis, we continue to implement our plans, both in the way of development and exploitation


of these assets. Our inventory of future drilling opportunities will become more fully understood,


appreciated and valued in the equity markets as we execute our plan. I'm extremely proud of the


accomplishments of our company and especially our people. We have just completed both our best


quarter ever and our best six month period ever in the 25 year history of this company. Of equal
raw transcript


Swift Energy Co
 
SFY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


importance, our corporate strategies and our financial resources are in place for our engineering


and Geosciences teams to expand our organic growth opportunities over the next several years.


The oil and gas professionals of Swift Energy Company have many accomplishments, which they


can and should be proud of.


Let me go in and cover some of the highlights of this morning's second quarter earnings call here.


For the first 13th straight quarter, that's 13 straight quarters, Swift Energy Company has beat the


consensus earnings estimates. Management believes that earnings are a primary metric for long


term shareholder value, and we're quite proud of this long earnings increase streak that we have.


We had earnings of $96 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2005 and cash flow per share of


$2.40. This was delivered on record corporate production of 15.9 Bcf equivalent. I'd like to talk more


about that now, but I will save some of those discussions for Alton, Joe and Bruce in their


presentation here this morning. In fact, with higher commodity prices and the increased production,


we are increasing our guidance. We should see even better reported financial numbers for the


second half of 2005. Our 2005 plan for reserve growth is primarily oriented toward exploration and


exploitation activity in Lake Washington, Bay de Chene, Cote Blanche Island which are in South


Louisiana, our South Texas activities and New Zealand, of course. This planned activity is very


robust for the second half of the year. Based on our planned activity, based on these planned


drilling activities, we estimate that our reserves will increase 5% to 10% this year.


We also expect to deliver production growth in the 10% to 14% range for 2005. We continue to


deliver value to our stakeholders, our shareholders, through our operating results. For the first half,


production increased 10% organically. The 50% capacity increase of our facilities in Lake


Washington is on schedule to be completed late this quarter, as was originally planned. This focus


on production has allowed Swift Energy to capture value from these higher commodity prices. What


a great time to be experiencing record production and record pricing. Our 3D seismic data in South


Louisiana has shown its first exploration success. The Newport prospect, which was drilled recently


together with our Piakau discovery in New Zealand show us early results that are encouraging in


both our domestic activity and our New Zealand activity.


This diversified drilling portfolio positions Swift for some higher-impact types of exploration drilling in


the second half of 2005. As well as some planned exploitation efforts. Continued execution of our


operating strategy in 2005, as planned, should bring us an excellent year. Our South Louisiana


plans call for more wells that will be impactful, not only for production, but also for reserves,


especially in Lake Washington. Swift Energy will continue to test very meaningful exploration


potential in New Zealand, as well. Layering this commodity price environment with our improved


production outlook, we believe we will deliver another year of record results, excellent returns and


increased long-term value to our shareholders. With that, I'd like to turn the presentation over to


Alton to present the quarter's financial results.


Alton Heckaman, Jr. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Terry and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to reiterate that Swift had its best quarterly


and six-month results in the history of the company. Revenues were $104 million, up 47%,


production for 2Q '05 rose 12% to 15.9 Bcfe. Net income was $27.9 million, up 116%. Diluted EPS,


more than doubled to $0.96 while net cash flow provided by operating activities increased 72% to


$2.23. Again, as Terry said, Swift's domestic production increase, along with commodity prices


received, led the way for our stellar results. U.S. production rose 17% for the quarter, when


compared to 2004, thanks primarily to continued success in our core Lake Washington area. 67%


of Swift's domestic production for 2Q '05 was crude oil, which, in this current pricing environment, is


obviously quite favorable.


With the current waiting of crude oil in the equations, Swift's average composite realized price for


2Q '05 increased 31% to $6.60 per Mcfe. Domestic composite prices actually averaged $7.53,