corrected transcript


Swift Energy Co.
 
SFY
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Swift Energy’s


First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any


background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now turn the call over to Mr. Paul Vincent, Director of Finance and Investor Relations. Sir,


you may begin.


Paul Vincent, Director, Finance and Investor Relations


Good morning. I’m Paul Vincent, Director of Finance and Investor Relations. Welcome to Swift


Energy’s first quarter 2011 earnings conference call. On today’s call, Terry Swift, Chairman and


CEO, will provide an overview; Alton Heckaman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer, will review our financial results for the first quarter; then Bruce Vincent, President, and Bob


Banks, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, will provide an operational update.


Terry Swift will then summarize, before we open up the line for questions. Also present on the call


is Jim Mitchell, Senior Vice President, Commercial Transactions and Land.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let me remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-


looking statements based on our current assumptions, estimates, and projections about us, our


industry, and the current environment in which we operate. These statements involve risks and


uncertainties detailed in our SEC reports to which we refer you along with cautionary statements


contained in our press releases, and our actual results could differ materially. We expect our


presentation to take approximately 25 to 30 minutes and have allowed additional time for questions.


Terry E. Swift, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Paul. And thank you again for joining our conference call today. Our first quarter 2011


results provide an excellent example of the quality and prospectivity of our asset portfolio. We now


have an expansive resource development underway in South Texas, meaningful traditional oil


production in Southeast Louisiana, and an emerging resource development in the Austin Chalk or


Central Louisiana.


The performance of these assets led to a 21% increase in production over fourth quarter 2010


levels. This performance, particularly in South Texas, combined with the extensive project planning


that is ongoing has given Swift Energy visibility on production and reserve growth for many years to


come.


Improved asset performance also leads us to raise our full year production guidance today. We


now expect our production to grow 30% to 33% above our 2010 levels. Previously, we’d expected


to grow production 25% to 30% over the prior-year levels. As our asset portfolio matures and our


execution continues to improve, we will continue to focus on value creation and meeting or


exceeding expectations.


During the first quarter of 2011, we completed our first two extended lateral Eagle Ford oil wells.


Both wells were drilled to lateral lengths somewhat less than the 6,000 foot model that we now


have in our new design. But the initial production from each of these wells was above 1,000 barrels


of oil per day.
corrected transcript


Swift Energy Co.
 
SFY
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We’re extremely pleased with these results and we’re evaluating adding another rig in our 2011


program and dedicating it to accelerating oil production from the Eagle Ford and Olmos formations


in the northern portion of our AWP field.


We also grew our average daily net production 4% in our Lake Washington field in the first quarter.


This was accomplished without the benefit of new wells being added. Instead, our ongoing


recompletion and production optimization programs performed extremely well. We had resumed


drilling in the field and we’ll bring several oil wells on line in addition to our production maintenance


activities this year.


Along with this production growth, we are intently focused on controlling our cost structure. We


have made considerable efforts to expand our ability to manage cost throughout our supply chain.


This doesn’t make us immune to service cost inflation, but it does allow us to have visibility on our


cost and understand any increases that may take place and plan for those increases well in


advance.


By incorporating cost increases into our planning in this particular environment, we’re able to


budget and measure projects and [ph] map (0:04:47) economics much more effectively. Presently,


approximately 40% of our major spending is accounted for under strategic business alliances and


long-term contracts.


As our asset base matures and continues to provide visibility on the revenue side, we will be able to


increase this percentage through additional alliances and business partnerships, which will help


mitigate future price increases of the goods and services used in our operations, equipment and


labor.


Bob and Bruce will provide some detail on our operational activity and performance in just a few


minutes, but I’d like to take a moment to review some of the highlights of the quarter, which include


the Swift operated SMR 2H and the SMR 3H in our Northern AWP field area, two high rate Eagle


Ford oil wells which were produced with initial rates above 1,000 barrels of oil per day.


We realized also higher than forecasted cash flows in 2011, the first quarter. This oil area in


McMullen County is an example of where we would put those extra cash flow this year should we


increase our capital spending.


In Southeast Louisiana, we drilled our Jelly Bowl prospect in the Lake Washington area during the


quarter. This is the deepest well we’ve drilled in this field since 2008 and we encountered 93 feet of


pay in four different productive horizons. We should have this well oil production this month. As our


corporate production profile grows and we could dedicate more capital to this area, we will resume


drilling deeper wells in the Lake Washington and surrounding area.


In our Central Louisiana, East Texas area, while there wasn’t any drilling activity in the quarter, the


performance of two wells last year in the Burr Ferry area has continued to impress us and our joint


venture partner. As a result of this production performance, we expect our partner to move the rig


into this area and begin drilling during the summer months. We’re also making plans to drill a Swift


Energy operated well in this area later this year.


Although we had an exceptional first quarter to start the year, we recognize that our stakeholders


want to see us maintain this type of performance. How we finish the year is more important to us


than how we started it. We continue to add top tier professionals to our technical and financial


teams and identified external threat to our plans in the areas where we can drive improvement, so


that we realize the kinds of economic and operational returns that will grow the company.


And now I’ll ask Alton to present the first quarter 2011 financial results.