raw transcript


Swift Energy Co
 
SFY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. My name is Halley and I will be your conference


facilitator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Swift Energy's Third Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.


After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period. If you would like to ask a


question during this time, please press star then the number one on your telephone keypad. If you


would like to withdraw your question, press the pound key. Thank you. It is now my pleasure to turn


the floor over to your host to Mr. Scott Espenshade. Sir, you may begin your conference.


Scott Espenshade, Director, Corporate Development, IR


Thank you Halley. Good morning everyone. I'm Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate


Development, Investor Relations. I would like to welcome everyone Swift Energy's third quarter


2005 earnings conference call. Terry Swift, CEO, will provide an overview followed by Alton


Heckaman, our Executive Vice President and CFO will review the financial results for the third


quarter; Joe D'Amico, Executive Vice President and COO will cover our recent domestic activity,


and then Bruce Vincent, President will update our New Zealand operations. Terry Swift will then


summarize before we open up to questions.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let me remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-


looking statements based on our current assumptions, estimates and projections about ups in our


industry. These statements involve risks and uncertainties detailed in our SEC reports and our


actual results could differ materially. We expect the presentation to take approximately 25 to 30


minutes and have allowed ample time for questions. With that I would like to turn it over to Terry.


Terry Swift, CEO


Thanks Scott. Again thank you for joining this morning's conference call. We're pleased to report


that we have just recorded one of our best quarters financially in the history of the company. These


results were obtained in spite of one of the most active and damaging hurricane seasons on record.


The eye of Hurricane Katrina passed directly over Port of South Louisiana, which is the shore base


of our Lake Washington production. Hurricane Rita came in ashore south of our Brookeland and


Masters Creek Fields impacting their production and our Cote Blanche Island properties. Many of


our employees and their families were directly impacted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and


suffered personal property losses. These catastrophic storms created serious personal hardships


for those that live and work in the region. Concern for their health and safety will remain our first


priority.


Fortunately, all of our people were able to safely evacuate themselves and their families. Working


together, we were able to develop and safely execute our recovery plans. Needless to say, the


Hurricanes prevented us from realizing our original 2005 production targets. Yet, in spite of these


storms, Swift has posted record financial results through the first nine months of 2005. The


company was proactive in keeping the market and our investors updated on the damage


assessments and our recovery progress through numerous detailed press releases during the past


quarter. Prior to the storms, we were on track to provide for a 10 to 14% increase in 2005


production. However, again, due to the Hurricanes, the company has now revised its projection to a


1 to 3% increase in 2005 production, which would be 59 Bcf equivalent to 60 Bcf equivalent.


Let me cover some of the highlights of this morning's third quarter conference call and earnings


release. Management believes that earnings are a primary metric for long-term shareholder value,
raw transcript


Swift Energy Co
 
SFY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and we're quite proud of our track record. We had earnings of $0.92 per diluted share for the


second quarter of 2005 and cash flow of $2.31 per share. Despite the loss of at least 2 to 3 full


months of rig and facility upgrade activity, again due to the hurricanes, we expect to increase


production in 2005 and plan to bring on additional production in 2006, which would bring us to


approximately 14 to 18% increase in that production for 2006. I'll let Alton and Joe and Bruce


deliver more of the details on the financial and operation items in their section of this presentation.


The energy industry has been operating with very little spare capacity prior to the Hurricanes. That


spare capacity has essentially been capped in the Gulf Coast region, making our industry operating


conditions even tighter due to their Hurricane effects. This has certainly led to more cost pressures.


Swift is working hard to control these costs. Most of our rigs have extended contracts. But, we


understand that in this kind of commodity environment we must remain vigilant and keep an eye on


prices and costs. While the commodity market has cooled recently during the past few days, we are


still tremendously excited and challenged by the environment. This is one of the best times an oil


and gas company could find to operate in.


As I mentioned earlier, higher commodity prices have led to cost pressures, yet at the same time,


global growth in energy demand and the energy demographics have led to human resource


constraints as well. And of course, we hope that the leadership in Washington resists the urge to


intervene with these natural supply and demand market-based responses. The global economy


continues to grow and the energy industry continues to satisfy the world market demand. I might


note that even with the amount of shut-in production and resultant higher commodity prices that


were experienced in the third quarter, the US economy still recorded a healthy growth rate in the


third quarter. Swift Energy is meeting the daily challenges just as we've met them for 26 years. I


believe the Swift Energy Company has many important competitive advantages relative to our


peers, one of which is the quality and diversity of our proven and probably reserve base. As we


continue our successful development and exploitation of these assets, our inventory of future


drilling activities will become more fully understood, appreciated, and valued in the equity markets.


Again, as I mentioned this morning, we're extremely proud of the accomplishments of our company


and our employees. Their efforts throughout the recent storms are certainly in large part the reason


we're here to report these exceptional results. The corporate strategies and financial resources are


in place at Swift Energy Company for our engineering and geoscience teams to expand through


organic growth opportunities over the next several years.


We are finalizing our 2006 plans and looking forward to further potential capacity increases in Lake


Washington. We're looking forward to expand our seismic data footprint in South Louisiana.


Specifically, we're planning a 3D shoot over the Cote Blanche Island area. These islands plus our


diversified drilling portfolio position us for some very high impact projects over the next several


years.


Recent additions to our portfolio include the South Bearhead Creek acquisition, which was


announced in September and brings additional strategic opportunities to the company. We expect


to continue delivering value to our stakeholders through consistent operating results. And of course,


that begins with strategic plans and the efficient implementation of those plans. With that I'd like to


turn it over to Alton to present to present the quarter's financial results.


Alton Heckaman, EVP & CFO


Thanks, Terry, and good morning, every one. As Terry said, in spite of the unfortunate weather


events we experienced, Swift still had a exceptional quarter. In fact it was the best third quarter in


the company's history. Revenues were 100.9 million up 35% from 3Q04. Net income was 27.5


million, up 95%. Diluted EPS increased 86% to $0.92, while net cash flow provided by operating


activities increased 85% and with $3.06 per diluted share. Production impacted by the weather