corrected transcript


Swift Energy Company
 
SFY
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Swift Energy Company Fourth


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only


mode and the floor will be opened for your questions following today’s presentation. It is now my


pleasure to introduce Mr. Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor


Relations. Sir, you may begin.


Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I'm Scott Espenshade, Director of Corporate Development


and Investor Relations. I'd like to welcome everyone to Swift Energy’s fourth quarter and year-end


2004 earnings conference call. Terry Swift, CEO, will give an overview; Alton Heckaman, EVP and


CFO will review the financial results for the fourth quarter; Joe D'Amico, Executive Vice President


and COO will cover our recent domestic activity; and then Bruce Vincent, President, will update our


New Zealand operations. Terry Swift will then recap before we open up to questions.


I'd like to remind everyone that also Swift is hosting our annual analyst investor meetings next week


and they're going to be held Tuesday, February 22 in Houston; Wednesday, February 23 in


Midtown Manhattan; and Thursday, February 24 in Boston. Details of the meeting locations were


listed in this morning's earnings release.


Before I turn it over to Terry, let me remind everyone that our presentation will contain forward-


looking statements based on our current assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our


industry. These statements involve risks and uncertainties detailed in our SEC reports and our


actual results could differ materially. Also, Swift has not completed our 2004 audit, nor Sarbanes-


Oxley 404 procedure testing. Swift expects to file its audited version on the financials in its 10-K


report, which should be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by March 15, 2005.


We expect our presentation to take approximately 20 to 25 minutes and will allow additional times


for questions. With that I'd like to turn it over to Terry.


Terry E. Swift, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Scott. And once again, we'd like to thank you for joining our year-end 2004 conference


call. It's only fitting that Swift's 25th anniversary year has become one of our best financial years


on record in many accounts. We'll go over that today. We certainly enjoyed a robust commodity


market, benefited from that, and indicative of the fundamentals of this crude oil market and natural


gas markets, we think that's going to continue. But we also enjoyed some record production levels


in certain of our areas and we have a lot of momentum in the company that we want to explain to


you and we want to remain excited about the opportunity sets and go into that with you today.


The company had $68 million in net income in 2004, a record year. Less than 10 years ago that


was the company's total oil and gas revenues for the entire year. In fact, in the fourth quarter our


net income of 26 million, again was a record that equaled the total revenues of the company in


1995. Alton is going to give us a full review of the accounting and some of these financial details in


just a moment.


Just as I've started many of our conference calls, I've talked about the oil and gas markets and


some of the pricing levels. We follow the NYMEX market very closely. We think we've done an


excellent job in realizing as strong of value as we can from these markets. March crude oil from


1995 pulled back a little bit here recently but it's rallied about $48 a barrel, which is a very premium
corrected transcript


Swift Energy Company
 
SFY
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


price and we intend to capture as much of that as we can. It's certainly substantially higher than


our internal price decks on which we build our budgets and the economics on which we base our


projects. We'll go into that a little more today. We have a consensus crude oil deck that I'll explain


later.


Natural gas, also very strong, although it's pulled back somewhat because of the winter being a


little milder than expected, but still we have to look at it as a robust market. NYMEX natural gas


over $6 for the March contract and the 12-month strip, currently over $6.50, again, very strong


pricing.


As we noted in this morning's press release, the company has continued to implement our


prosperous management strategy. We layer in protection but we really don't give up the upside,


that's one of our strategic objectives to maintain all or essentially all of the upside. We do have


some floors. We've posted those. Some of them in fact are $7 floors. Clearly, we wish we had


more of those right now, but we still have very good pricing, so we're encouraged by that market.


With the higher price decks, though, we don't want to be complacent. We realize that we have to


meet our metrics; we have to perform on our objectives and goals. We know that higher prices


alone don't add value but certainly as we do receive more value for the higher prices, we have to


look at the pressures in the marketplace in terms of pricing of our services and some of the other


aspects of the LOE, G&A. We’ll go into that today. We are focused on controlling these costs.


Although we must recognize that certain of these costs are rising in this very premium commodity


market.


The company has instituted financial controls that we think are robust in reviewing and monitoring


our ongoing budget. We have budgeted for about a 10% increase in the actual drilling costs that


we’ll be foreseeing, going forward. We’ve built this into the budget. We also have built into our


budget, what we call a discretionary wedge into the capital budget. We're going to look again at


mid-year and make sure that we've met our performance goals operationally. We’re going to look


at mid-year and make sure that we’ve got the pricing environment that's giving us the cash flow,


and we anticipate that our 2005 capital expenditures will be between $200 million and $220 million,


very close to the expected cash flows for the year, using a price deck of $5.75 per Mcf equivalent


and about $40 per barrel.


We also want to deliver extreme value through our operating results. I think as you look at Lake


Washington you can see that we've performed and we will continue to perform there. 2004, our


production increased 10%, despite some storm downtimes in the third quarter. Our fourth quarter


production was 15.9 Bcf equivalent. That represents a 14% increase in production from the third


quarter of 2004 and a 19% increase from the same period in 2003. The focus on production has


allowed the company to capture a lot of this high value that we're seeing in commodity markets.


We're very focused on realizing these commodity prices through production gains. The company's


earnings and cash flows are higher as a result of these efforts and we're very pleased with these


financial results.


We positioned ourselves throughout the year to have some higher impact projects both exploration


and exploitation in 2005, and while most of our goals were met in 2004, we did not meet our


reserve growth goal. We'll talk a little bit more about that and some of the particulars of how it


impacted finding costs later in the presentation. But I'd want to emphasize that we did focus on a


lot of the intermediate goals in 2004, such as our 3-D acquisition, our facilities projects in Lake


Washington, and these activities did force us to reduce our drilling pace in the field. A large portion


of that reduced drilling activity was developmental in nature, developmental drilling, as we all know,


can add reserves, but doesn't necessarily usually moves reserves from the undeveloped category


into the producing category. We had expected our lower drilling levels to deliver both exploitation


and exploration reserve adds, but they just simply didn't. Our reserves actually dropped 3% on the


year, but as I mentioned earlier, we're in a position to add reserves in 2005, in large part because of