corrected transcript


Six Flags Inc
 
PKS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 05 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to your Six Flags Second Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only


mode, and the floor will be open for questions following the presentation.


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Ms. Erika Levy at KCSA. Ma'am, the floor is


yours.


Erika Levy, KCSA, Investor Relations Advisor


Thank you. Good morning. Last night the company released its financial and operating results for


the second quarter of 2005. A copy of the earnings release is available on the company's website


at www.sixflags.com under the heading "Investors."


Before I turn the call over to the company's executives, they have asked me to remind you that in


compliance with SEC Regulation FD, a webcast of this call is being made available to the media


and the general public, as well as analysts and investors. The company cautions you that


comments made during the call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the


federal securities laws. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause


actual results to differ material from those described in such statements. You may refer to the


company's 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is also posted on its website for a detailed


discussion of these risks.


Because the webcast is open to all constituents, and prior notification has been widely and


unselectively disseminated, all contents of the call will be considered fully disclosed. In accordance


with SEC Regulation G, non-GAAP financial measures used in the earnings release, and in the


company's oral presentation today, are required to be reconciled to the most directly comparable


GAAP measure. Those reconciliations are available to investors in the earnings release and on the


company's website. References by management in this call to EBITDA mean EBITDA modified,


which was formerly known as EBITDA adjusted from consolidated operations, but now includes the


results of the four parks that were previously unconsolidated.


Now I'd like to introduce Kieran Burke, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Six Flags.


Kieran E. Burke, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Erika. Good morning. Thank you for joining us for today's conference call. We


announced our second quarter results yesterday following the close of the markets. Revenues for


the second quarter of 2005 were 8.4% higher than the prior year, and attendance increased


753,000, or 6.6%, reflecting the positive market reaction to our new capital additions and our


marketing programs.


We're pleased with the broad-based strong performance of our parks during the first half of 2005.


Although there is a great deal of time left in our season, the year-to-date results from our parks


have been encouraging. Year-to-date, virtually all of our parks are pacing ahead of prior-year


revenues. This reflects the successful implementation of our investment program which added new


attractions in 13 of our 18 domestic theme parks, 3 of our water parks and our 2 international parks,


as well as our ongoing guest service initiatives and year two of our advertising campaign.
corrected transcript


Six Flags Inc
 
PKS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


We enjoyed favorable weather conditions during the early part of the summer and this had a


positive impact on attendance.


The new water park in Chicago has generated an especially strong response with attendance up


28% at the combined park. We are also gratified by the excitement and the attendance generated


by enhancements at the Great Adventure park in New Jersey despite the temporary closure of the


Kingda Ka coaster which reopened last weekend and should spur a strong balance of the season


there. We are also seeing strong performance in a number of our other markets including Denver,


Los Angeles, New England, San Antonio, St. Louis, Washington, Mexico, and our water parks.


Our performance in July continued to reflect solid growth. While attendance growth in the months


slowed somewhat from its robust early season pace, per capita revenues rose sharply. For the


month of July, total revenues rose 9.6% from the year-ago period. As a result, year-to-date through


August 1st, total attendance is 6.3% ahead of the prior year, per capita revenues are up 3.3% and


revenues are up by 9.8% year-over-year. Season pass sales through July 31st are up 21.7% year-


over-year and group sales are up 2% over last year.


There is a significant amount of our season remaining, and we did enjoy a strong October


performance last year. Nonetheless, given our performance trends to-date, we are clearly poised to


deliver strong financial results for the year, and see the stage set for further growth.


Guests are coming to the parks, they're enjoying the new attractions, and they're spending money


at a good pace while they are here. This combination puts us in an excellent position to deliver solid


performance.


It's still early in the year. We have quite a few weeks left in our season; including the last part of our


summer season and our September and October operations. In fact, only 64% of full-year


attendance has been budgeted through August 1st. Nevertheless, we are making sustained


progress toward our goals and remain comfortable with our full-year adjusted EBITDA target of 300


million in 2005 against 258.6 million in 2004.


Now that we're seeing the positive results of our capital addition plan and our other enhancements,


we're in the process of finalizing our plans for 2006. These will include a capital expenditure


program totaling approximately $125 million, which will include marketable new rides and


attractions in a substantial number of our parks. We believe this will enable to us build on the


success we have experienced this year, and deliver further solid performance improvement in 2006


and beyond.


With that, I'll turn it over to Jim Dannhauser.


James F. Dannhauser, Chief Financial Officer and Director


Thank you, Kieran. I'll start by reviewing and providing some greater detail on the quarterly


numbers, which we released yesterday. To remind everyone, the reported results for the second


quarter reflect the consolidation of the results of Six Flags Over Georgia and White Water Atlanta,


the nearby water park, Six Flags Over Texas and Six Flags Marine World, in accordance with


Financial Interpretation number No. 46. They also reflect the treatment, as discontinued operations


in 2004, of our European division and our Cleveland park, with all of those parks' results excluded


from revenue, expenses, and EBITDA, and reflected only in the discontinued operations line.


With that having been said, second quarter revenues were $386.5 million, up $30.1 million, or 8.4%


from the second quarter last year. Total attendance was 12.2 million for the quarter, up 6.6% from


the prior-year period. This is especially encouraging given the presence in the second quarter of


2004 of the Easter holiday, which was in the first quarter this year.