corrected transcript


Six Flags, Inc.
 
PKS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Six Flags’ Third Quarter Earnings


Release Conference Call. At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode, and


the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.


Last night, the company released its financial and operating results for the third quarter of 2005. A


copy of the earnings release is available on the company's website, at www.sixflags.com, under the


heading “Investor”.


Before I turn the call over to the company's executive, they have asked me to remind you, in


compliance with SEC Regulation G, a webcast of this call is being made available to the media and


the general public, as well as analysts and investors. The company cautions you that comments


made during this call will include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal


Securities law. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual


results to differ materially from those described in such statements. You may refer to the


company's 2004 annual report on Form 10-K, which is also posted on its website, for a detailed


discussion of these risks.


Because the webcast is open to all constituents and prior notification has been widely and


unselectively disseminated, all contents of the call will be considered fully disclosed.


In accordance with SEC Regulation G, non-GAAP financial measures used in the earnings release


and in the company's oral presentation today are required to be reconciled to the most directly


comparable GAAP measure. These reconciliations are available to investors in the earnings


release and on the company's website. References by management in this call to EBITDA mean


EBITDA modified, which was formerly known as EBITDA adjusted from consolidated operations,


but now includes the results of the four parks that were previously unconsolidated.


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Kieran Burke, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


of Six Flags. Sir, the floor is yours.


Kieran E. Burke, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Karen. Good morning. Thank you for joining us for today's conference call. Yesterday,


following the close of the markets, we announced our third quarter and nine-month results and


reiterated our guidance regarding our full-year expectations. This morning I will comment on our


very strong year-to-date performance and our expectations for the rest of 2005 and for 2006. I will


also provide updates regarding the Company's sale process and the Red Zone's consent


solicitation. After that, Jim Dannhauser will provide some further detail about the quarterly and


nine-month results, and finally we'll open the call to your questions.


Before turning to a discussion of these matters, I would like to make the following three critical


observations. First, our performance is quite strong, clearly demonstrating that our operating plan


is working and is the right one for the company, and should not be abandoned or compromised.


Second, our sales process is on track. As we planned, we now have received initial bids from a


number of financial and strategic bidders. We have selected the participants for the next round and


are targeting the receipt of final bids in the early part of December. We remain confident that we


will end up with an attractive transaction that we will be recommending to stockholders before the


end of December. And third, successful consent solicitation at this time could, in our view, not only


impair the continued implementation of our operating strategy, but also seriously jeopardize the


sale process. If the consent passes, bidders may be reluctant to commit the necessary resources


on this timetable to pursuing the opportunity, given the great uncertainty that it will be ultimately
corrected transcript


Six Flags, Inc.
 
PKS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


approved. There is no need for stockholders to act precipitously and give their consent before the


results of the sale process are known.


Now during the third quarter we announced that the AstroWorld theme park in Houston would be


closed as of the end of the 2005 season, and that we would be initiating a sale process for the 104-


acre site. We have made good progress on this sale, and we expect it will yield significant


proceeds, given the property's size and location within a revitalized and dynamic area of the city,


and its proximity to so many of Houston's civic, healthcare and business enterprises. Given the


status of the AstroWorld Park, we are treating it as a discontinued operation beginning with the third


quarter, and have reclassified it in prior periods in the same manner. As a result, comparative year-


over-year performance in my remarks will exclude AstroWorld from both years.


We have now concluded our operating season at all of our parks, with the exception of weekend


and holiday operations in three markets. As anticipated, revenues for the third quarter of 2005


were 9.8% higher than the prior year, and attendance increased 659,000, or 4%. Year to date,


through September 30, our attendance was up 1.6 million, 5.6%; per capita revenues were up


$1.14, 3.6% increase; and revenues were up $84.7 million, 9.5%.


In addition, notwithstanding substantial rain in October in many Eastern markets, we had a very


solid October performance, with park level revenues up over 10% for the month. All of this reflects


the positive market reaction to our new capital additions, our breakthrough advertising campaign,


and our guest service initiatives. We are proud of the strong, broad-based performance of our


parks this quarter and for the year to date period, including the solid results that we enjoyed in our


October operations. These impressive results demonstrate the successful implementation of our


investment program, our ongoing guest service initiatives, and year two of our advertising


campaign. We are confident, given the breadth of this improvement, that we have set the stage for


continued growth in the future through the continued application of our operating plan.


Given our strong nine-month performance and our solid October results, we are confident that


including the performance of AstroWorld, we will achieve adjusted EBITDA for the full year of at


least $300 million, representing 16% year-over-year growth. Our strong performance this year has


been broad-based, and we expect to achieve full-year revenue growth at virtually every one of our


30 parks.


Next year we will be introducing several exciting new rides and attractions as part of a $125 million


capital program that will see thrill and family additions to a number of parks. These additions will


include four great coasters, one each in New Jersey, Montreal, Atlanta and Los Angeles, including


our blockbuster Tatsu coaster in LA and the GOLIATH hypercoaster in Atlanta. We will also debut


several family-oriented rides and children’s sections in a number of our parks. In addition, we are


on track with our plans to open the Great Escape Lodge & Indoor Waterpark this winter in Lake


George, NY.


This capital program is fully committed, is under construction and will be ready for the 2006 season.


These new attractions will build upon the momentum of this season and, as we continue our focus


on enhancing the guest experience at our parks and solid marketing, should position us to continue


our strong performance in 2006. As a result, we anticipate achieving $340 million in adjusted


EBITDA in 2006, with attendance growth of approximately 3.5 to 4%, and revenue growth of


approximately 6.5 to 7%.


Turning then to other essential matters. As you know, Red Zone LLC, which is controlled by Dan


Snyder, has initiated a consent solicitation seeking to place Mr. Snyder and his hand-picked


designees on the Six Flags board. In our view, this is clearly part of a plan to take over operating


control of the company without paying for it by people with no theme park experience, advancing


what we believe are a number of misguided proposals to dramatically change the operating plan of


the company. We think that's a very risky bet for our stockholders to make.