raw transcript


Southwestern Energy
 
SWN
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please standby. Good day everyone and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company


First Quarter 2005 Earnings. [Operator Instructions].


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the President, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer, Mr. Harold Korell. Please go ahead sir.


Harold M. Korell, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us. With me today are Richard Lane, our Executive Vice-


President of Exploration & Production and Greg Kerley, our Chief Financial Officer. If you have not


received the copy of the press release, we announced on Friday regarding our First Quarter


Financial results, you can call Annie at 281-618-4784 and she will fax a copy to you.


Also I would like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference may be


regarded as forward-looking statements that involve risk factors and uncertainties that are detailed


in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We also would warn you that these forward-


looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.


Although, we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions, they are


not guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.


While we are off to a great start in 2005, our first quarter financial results were the best in the


Company’s history as we set new records for earnings and cash flow due to our production growth


and higher commodity prices. We continue to have excellent results in our drilling programs at the


Overton field in East Texas and the Ranger Anticline in the Arkoma Basin. In addition, we continue


to make progress in our Fayetteville Shale Play. By the end of the quarter, we had drilled 39 wells


in six pilot areas in four separate counties in the Play. We have begun testing horizontal wells with


encouraging results, which Richard will discuss in a moment.


On the land front, we are continuing to lease new acreage and today we have leased approximately


630,000 net acres in the undeveloped Play area and we control an additional 125,000 net


developed acres in the traditional Fairway area of the basin. We have also seen increasing


competition for leases over the last few months. Overall, we continue to be excited about the


potential of Fayetteville Shale Play. Our drilling program will remain flexible throughout the year and


will continue to be impacted by a number of factors including the results of our drilling efforts, our


progress in determining the most effective fracture stimulation treatment. The performance of wells


we drill in new pilot areas prevailing cost for services and materials and the gas commodity price


environment.


We have had an excellent start to what I believe will be a very exciting year for the company. I will


now turn the teleconference over to Richard Lane, who will tell you more about our E&P results and


then to Greg Kerley to discuss our financial results and then we will answer your questions.


Richard F. Lane, Executive Vice President, Southwestern Energy Production Company &


SEECO, Inc.


Good morning. During the first quarter of 2005, we continued with some active drilling program in


East Texas in the Ranger Anticline field in the Arkoma Basin. In addition, we have been evaluating


fracture stimulation techniques and testing horizontal technology in our Fayetteville Shale Play. We
raw transcript


Southwestern Energy
 
SWN
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


currently have six rigs running in East Texas, three at Ranger and three in our Fayetteville Shale


Play.


In the first quarter, we spotted a total of 64 wells including 21 in East Texas, 13 at Ranger and 18 in


the Fayetteville Shale. Our production volumes for the first quarter were 14.0 Bcfe, up 22% from the


first quarter of 2004 despite the curtailment of a portion of our production at the Overton field in


East Texas. Due to continued curtailments at Overton into the second quarter, we are revising our


second quarter production guidance down slightly from a range of 15 to 15.4 Bcfe to a new range of


14.8 to 15.2. We are continuing to hold our full-year guidance at 61 to 63 Bcfe.


At this time, we expect all curtailment issues at Overton to be resolved by the end of the second


quarter. Of the 14.0 Bcfe of first quarter 2005 production, 5.9 was from East Texas, 4.9 range of


motion our conventional Arkoma[ph], 1.8 from the Permian Basin, 1.2 from the Gulf Coast and 0.2


from our Fayetteville Shale Play.


Going on to the Fayetteville Shale – first quarter of 2005, we invested approximately $20.1 million


in the Play including $11.9 million to drill 18 wells, $6.9 million for lease hold acquisitions. As of


March 31st, we held approximately 630,000 net acres in the undeveloped Play area, in addition as


Harold mentioned we controlled approximately 125,000 net developed acres in the traditional


Fairway area of Arkoma Basin, which is held by production.


Since beginning our drilling program in the Fayetteville Shale Play in 2004, we have drilled a total of


38 wells and participated in one outside operated well. Of the 39 wells, 27 are producing, 8 are in


some stage of completion or waiting on pipeline hook up and 4 are shut-in due to marginal


performance. Today, we have drilled three horizontal wells in three separate pilot areas. Of the


three horizontal wells, two have been completed and tested and one is waiting on completion. The


first horizontal well was drilled in the Company’s Griffin Mountain Field area with approximately


1800 feet of lateral and required 32 days to reach total depth. We initially planned to perforate and


stimulate at four different intervals along the length of the horizontal section. However, problems


with wellbore isolation limited the potential stimulation of the well to effectively only one stage at the


tail of the horizontal section. This well had a final test rate of approximately 580 Mcf per day. The


second horizontal well completed in the company’s Rainbow pilot area had 2264 feet of lateral and


required 11 days to drill. This well was successfully fracture stimulating [audio gap] million cubic


feet per day and will be on production later this week. The third horizontal well located in our


Brookie pilot area took 19 days to drill and had 2170 weeks. And we are currently drilling our fourth


horizontal well, which is located in our Rainbow pilot area. The average drill and complete cost for


the first three horizontal wells was approximately 2.1 million per well, excluding extraordinary and


non-reoccurring costs we have to make that a horizontal well cost during the second quarter will


range between 1.5 to 2.0 million per well. We also recently placed the new vertical well in


production at a rate of approximately 1.3 million cubic feet per day with a flowing tubing pressure of


approximately 1100 PSI in our Brookie pilot area and tested another vertical well at a rate of 1.28


million cubic feet per day with a flowing casing pressure of 490 PSI in our Rainbow pilot area. The


cost to drill and complete our vertical wells range from 440,000 to 650,000 per well with the higher


cost wells predominantly in our Griffin Mountain field area. We are continuing to get more history on


our producing wells. As was expected we have begun seeing more variance in the Fayetteville


Shale’s productivity between the different pilot areas.


Initial potentials of the vertical wells have ranged from 300 Mcf per day to 1500 Mcf per day. The


first 30 day average producing rate from the 13 wells, which have been on production that long is


375 Mcf per day. The second 30 day average rate from the 8 wells producing that long is


approximately 215 Mcf per day. Assuming a first year average exponential decline rate of 75%,


second year rate of 45% and a third year rate of 20% with further flattening in the out years, we


currently estimate that the ultimate recoveries from our existing vertical wells will be between 300


and 750 million cubic feet per well.