corrected transcript


Southwestern Energy Co
 
SWN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to the Southwestern Energy Company third quarter


2005 earnings conference call. At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the President,


Chairman and CEO, Mr. Harold Korell. Please go ahead sir.


Harold M. Korell, President, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, and thank you for joining us. With me today are Richard Lane, our Executive VP of


E&P Company, and Greg Kerley, our Chief Financial Officer. If you have not received the copy of


our third quarter press release, you can call Annie at 281-618-4784, and she will fax a copy to you.


Also, I would like to point out that many of the comments during this teleconference may be


regarded as forward-looking statements that involve risk factors and uncertainties that are detailed


in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. We also would warn you that these forward-


looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.


Although we believe the expectations expressed are based on reasonable assumptions, they're not


guarantees of future performance and actual results or developments may differ materially.


Well, to begin with, we had a great third quarter. Yesterday, we reported earnings for the third


quarter of 39.5 million, up 55% from the same period last year. Our cash flow for the third quarter


was up 37% from a year ago to $80.3 million. Both were records and the highest ever in the


company’s history. We also posted record oil and gas production of 16.2 Bcfe, which is up 8% from


last year. In addition, in September, we completed an equity offering and raised approximately


$580 million allowing us to accelerate the development of our Fayetteville Shale Play in Arkansas.


We made excellent progress in understanding the Fayetteville Shale resource since we first


announced the play a little over a year ago. We have now drilled 67 wells in ten different pilot areas


located in five separate counties in Arkansas. 18 of these wells have been horizontal.


As we discussed in our press release, yesterday, we’ve continued to experience problems with


drilling equipment in Arkoma Basin, and this is affecting our plans for the Fayetteville Shale. We are


looking forward to the delivery in November of the first of ten new drilling rigs that we’re purchasing


for the play. Over the next 12 to 15 months, we expect to further evaluate our Fayetteville Shale


acreage by testing an additional 35 to 40 pilots.


I’d like to now turn the conference over the Richard Lane, who will expand upon our operating


activities and plans for the E&P area, and then to Greg Kerley to discuss our financial results.


Richard F. Lane, Executive Vice President, Southwestern Energy Production Company &


SEECO, Inc.


Thank you Harold, and good morning. During the third quarter of 2005, we continued to expand the


known productive area of our Fayetteville Shale project in Arkansas. We also maintained our active


drilling programs in East Texas, the Arkoma Basin, and in the Permian Basin.


Through the first nine months of this year, we invested a total of $323.3 million in our E&P


operations, up 53% from the 210.7 million we invested in the first nine months of 2004. Through the


third quarter, we have participated in 186 wells, 155 of which are productive, 7 were dry, and 24


were in progress at quarter-end. Our overall success rate so far in 2005 has been 96%. We have


spudded a total of 65 wells in East Texas, 33 at Ranger Anticline, 44 in the Fayetteville Shale play
corrected transcript


Southwestern Energy Co
 
SWN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and 44 wells in the remainder of our active areas. As Harold said, production for the third quarter


was 16.2 Bcfe, up 8% from the 15 we produced in the second quarter of this year. Of that 16.2


produced, 7.7 was from East Texas, 5.1 from our conventional Arkoma properties, 1.9 from the


Permian Basin, 0.8 from the Gulf Coast Region and 0.7 from our Fayetteville Shale.


We estimate that our third quarter production was reduced approximately 0.2 Bcfe as a result of


Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The impact to our fourth quarter production could be approximately


the same as we continue to have outside operated wells shut in, in South Louisiana.


Moving to our Fayetteville Shale play. In the first nine months of 2005, we invested approximately


$84 million including 50.8 million to drill 44 wells and 28.1 million for leasehold. We continue to


increase our significant leaseholdings in the play, and as of September 30th we held approximately


724,000 net acres in the undeveloped play area, and in addition, 125,000 net developed acres in


the traditional Fairway area of the Basin, which we hold with production.


Since beginning our drilling program in the Fayetteville Shale in 2004, we have drilled a total 66


wells and participated in one outside operated well. We have now drilled in 10 separate pilot areas


located in Franklin, Conway, Van Buren, Cleburne and Faulkner counties in Arkansas. Our two


newest pilot areas are South Brownie located five miles south of our Griffin Mountain Field, and


Yellowstone located 10 miles northeast of our Cove Creek Field. We have drilled one vertical well


in each of the new pilot areas. The Yellowstone well is currently being completed and the South


Brownie well is waiting on pipeline connection after testing at approximately 811 Mcf per day.


Of the 67 wells drilled, 51 are producing, 11 are in some stage of completion or waiting on a


pipeline, 2 are shut-in due to marginal performance or temporarily abandoned and 3 have been


spudded but have not yet reached total depth. Current gross production from our Shale wells is


approximately 12 million cubic feet per day.


To date, we have drilled 18 horizontal wells in four separate pilot areas. Of the 18 horizontal wells,


12 have been completed, 2 are waiting on completion, 1 has been temporarily abandoned due to


mechanical problems and 3 are in the drilling phase. The average initial test rate for the 12


completed horizontal wells is 2.5 million cubic feet per day excluding our first horizontal well in


which problems with wellbore isolation limited our treatment.


Based on early production histories and modeling, we believe the average ultimate production from


these horizontal wells will be between 1.3 and 1.7 Bcf per well. The most recently completed cost


for the horizontal wells have ranged from 1.4 to $1.8 million per well excluding non-recurring costs,


and they have taken 16 days on average to reach total depth. One horizontal well of note is the


McNew #4-2 in our Gravel Hill Field. This well was our first horizontal to be stimulated with a slick-


water frac. The well is producing 1.2 million cubic feet per day and 70 to 80 barrels of water per day


after being on production for almost 3 weeks with pretty low decline rates at this point. We will


continue to monitor this well’s performance. As Harold mentioned, we have encountered significant


mechanical problems with our contracted Fayetteville Shale Play rigs. Two rigs we had previously


been utilizing have been released due to excessive downtime impacting our well count for the third


and fourth quarters. It is pretty frustrating for us to be releasing rigs in our Shale Play at this time


when we want to accelerate the drilling program. We now expect to drill a total of 60 to 70 wells in


2005 down from our previous estimate of 80 to 90 wells. Wells being deferred from our 2005 plan


will generally be development wells as we concentrate on our drilling in new pilot areas to assess


the shale potential across our acreage position. By year-end 2005 we expect to have drilled in 7


new pilot areas including a horizontal test in the Fairway area approximately 70 miles west of our


existing horizontal wells.


As a result of the reduced 2005 well count, we anticipate our production to be approximately 2.0


Bcf from the Fayetteville Shale for the year. Combined with the production loss due to Hurricanes