Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Luc Filiatreault — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, mdf commerce inc.
Deborah Dumoulin — Chief Financial Officer, mdf commerce inc.
Kevin Krishnaratne — Analyst, Scotiabank

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the mdf commerce First Quarter Fiscal 2024 Financial Results Investor Conference Call. Today's call will provide information and commentary on the corporation with a focus on the financial results released yesterday after the market close. We will hear from Luc Filiatreault, President and Chief Executive Officer; Deborah Dumoulin, Chief Financial Officer. If you have questions following the call, you can reach mdf commerce at the address on their website, www.mdfcommerce.com.

First, here are a couple of housekeeping notices. All participants are in listen-only mode for the duration of the call. This call is being recorded and we expect that the recording will be available on the mdf commerce website later today. The information in today's remarks, including any forward-looking statements, have been prepared as of June 30, 2023, unless otherwise indicated.

mdf commerce assumes no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements to reflect any new events or circumstances except as may be required pursuant to securities laws. We remind you that today's remarks will include forward-looking statements and non-IFRS measures that are subject to important risks and uncertainties. For more information on the risks and uncertainties, please see the reader advisory at the bottom of the mdf commerce's news release, which is on their website and has been filed on www.sedarplus.com. The company's actual performance could differ materially from these statements.

I will now hand the call over to Mr. Filiatreault. Please go ahead, sir.

[Foreign Language] (00:02:23) Sabrina. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our Q1 fiscal 2024 financial results call. Before turning to the financial results that we filed after the market's close yesterday, I would like to provide an operational update. mdf is a developer and operator of digital commerce platforms that facilitate billions of dollars per year of digital commerce transactions for well over 550,000 end user companies, mostly in North America. Our mission is to enable the flow of commerce.

I'll present an overview of our company's performance and outlook for the future, beginning with a few Q1 2024 financial highlights. Our revenue for the quarter were CAD 31 million, with recurring revenue now representing 79% of total revenue. We achieved positive adjusted EBITDA of CAD 2.6 million in this last quarter, a significant improvement of CAD 3.7 million from the adjusted EBITDA loss of negative CAD 1.1 million in Q1 of fiscal 2023 a year ago. In fact, this quarter marks the fourth sequential quarter with positive adjusted EBITDA.

This quarter has been exciting for us as we saw an acceleration of pipeline conversion for our comprehensive suite of products offered for eprocurement. I want to point out that eprocurement platform revenue grew by 13.5% year-over-year, with recurring revenue for that platform now reaching 88.5%. We recently announced that Anoka County in Minnesota has filled in our full eprocurement solution. Pima County in Arizona, chose our source-to-contract solution. We've also won awards in several US cities and districts during the quarter. These agencies are joining over 6,500 public sector buying organizations in choosing mdf commerce's solutions.

In addition, very pleased to say that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which has been a client of ours for over 10 years now, has renewed their contract for our full eprocurement suite for another 5 years, resulting in a 15-year relationship. Maricopa County in Arizona upgraded its existing suite of mdf solutions to our full source-to-contract technology. Our opportunities pipeline reflects the growing demand for our integrated full source-to-pay integrated suite. These new wins and customer renewals are strong proof points to the value of our solution to states, counties, cities and municipalities to support their procurement, and is a testament to the enduring trust of our customers.

The sales cycle for public procurement is often long, and over the past few quarters, we've been faced with a slower than anticipated conversion rate on new clients. In fact, many of our recent wins have come from proposals tendered as far back as 2021. It takes long to strike a deal, but as we've seen with Massachusetts, this is a very sticky business and customers often last for more than a decade. We've currently actively engaged in multiple opportunities to provide public agencies procurement systems. These are at various stages of the sales cycle, including the largest province in Canada, as well as many of the largest states and counties in the US.

We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize both on the larger Tier 1 state contracts and on the mid-market opportunities that lie ahead as public agencies digitize their procurement solutions. We continue to further solidify our leadership position in the North American public procurement market. We define our Tier 1 market as states, provinces and large counties that have a population approximately above 2 million individuals, up to states like California, which has a population of approximately 40 million individuals.

When Tier 1 customers use our full procurement solution suite, they can generate from approximately CAD 0.5 million to several millions of dollars of annual recurring revenue, plus the initial implementation services revenue. Our mid-market customers consist of these larger cities, midsized counties, certain districts, waterpower turnpikes. And these customers typically generate from approximately CAD 25,000 up to a few hundreds of thousands of dollars of annual recurring revenue for us, of course, plus the initial services required to implement the solutions.

We also offer our source module, which you may be familiar with Merx, BidNet and the Periscope S2G technology, to a very large number of organizations for which the business model is a supplier paid membership system that allows suppliers to access our database of published RFPs across our whole network.

From a product perspective, our continuous efforts in integrating all of our different modules into a comprehensive eprocurement suite have garnered significant attention from large states and local governments. As you can see on slide 5 of our presentation, we are powering the critical work of procurement by integrating our various procurement products offering in a common suite of products offered in the modules. We have a source module, a contract, procure, connect and shop. This shows the various brands, if you look at the bottom of that slide, that you're all familiar with, that translates into the five modules of our end-to-end integrated suite of products. Not only will we have moved all of these to the cloud, but we are planning to complete most of this integration towards the end of the year.

If you look at the slide, I'd like to put out a few comments. The two first modules are what we call our source-to-contract, and the three modules on the right are the procure-to-pay. So, source-to-contract is really a combination of BidNet, Merx, and Periscope that offer similar functionality. The contract piece is what used to be our AFC contract lifecycle management module. And in terms of procure and connect, there are two products that we combine, BidNet Direct, which addresses more of the mid-market and the smaller customers, and there's the Periscope ePro solution that addresses larger Tier 1 types of customers. And finally, this allows us to offer the marketplace products, which allows workers from various public agencies and organizations to shop, contract directly online.

Now, in terms of our e-commerce and e-marketplaces division, our various offerings continue to perform well. And the right sizing that we've completed over the last few quarters now put these in a positive contribution place. We continue to see demand from the B2B side of ecommerce, particularly from the Acumatica ERP clients.

And now, Deborah will comment on the corporation's financial results. Deborah, the floor is yours.

Thanks, Luc, and good morning, everyone. I'd like to remind you that you can find our Q1 financial results, including our press release, the MD&A and our financial statements on our website or on www.sedarplus.com.

Our Q1 2024 total revenues were CAD 31 million, a decrease of CAD 1.2 million or 3.7% compared to Q1 of 2023. However, to provide the information on total revenues on a more comparative basis, and this is because we sold InterTrade subsidiary in October 2022, the Q1 year-over-year represents an increase in total revenues of CAD 2.2 million or positive 7.7% when excluding InterTrade revenues from Q1 last year, which were CAD 3.4 million. The company's recurring revenue continues to trend towards 80% of total revenue, with recurring revenue at Q1 of 79.2% of revenues, compared to 77.8% of revenues for Q1 2023. And you'll recall that InterTrade was in the prior year recurring revenues with recurring revenue about 90% of revenue. So, we're pleased that recurring revenue is trending positively.

We've had significant improvements in profitability with our net loss improved by CAD 1.2 million from CAD 6.3 million loss in Q1 2023 to CAD 5.1 million in Q1 of 2024. As Luc mentioned earlier, Q1 marks the fourth consecutive quarter with a positive adjusted EBITDA of CAD 2.6 million. This is an increase of CAD 3.7 million compared to the Q1 last year, which had an adjusted EBITDA loss of CAD 1.1 million. Not only did we achieve positive adjusted EBITDA this quarter, but there have been increases over the last several quarters. If we compare adjusted EBITDA to Q4, which was CAD 2.2 million, there's a sequential increase of CAD 0.4 million. The workforce reductions, both in Q1 and in Q4 contributed to the improvement in profitability compared to Q4.

Highlighting certain variances between the sequential quarters, you'll recall that Q4 included a non-cash gain on lease modification of CAD 1.7 million, while Q1 includes a non-cash impairment loss on a right of use asset and leasehold improvements totaling CAD 0.7 million. Also, with respect to other revenue from the post-closing transition services to SPS related to the sale of InterTrade, those other revenues decreased from Q4 to Q1 by CAD 0.3 million. Therefore, on a more comparative basis for Q4 versus Q1, by considering the variances that I just mentioned, the adjusted EBITDA increased sequentially by approximately CAD 3.2 million since Q4.

In Q1, we continue to make substantial progress in improving profitability and cash flows across all of our platforms. At the beginning of Q1, we rightsized operations and implemented global workforce reductions of approximately 40 people. We now have just under 650 employees as compared to 800 at this time last year.

During the last few quarters, we've further streamlined our operations by proactively de-prioritizing certain projects, lowering operating expenses, including our office costs, by reducing our global lease footprint. And as Luc mentioned earlier, we've had various product integration initiatives that are ongoing in eprocurement, and we plan to complete our cloud migration that is expected to generate additional savings by the end of fiscal 2024.

We've seen an acceleration of eprocurement pipeline conversion, as Luc also mentioned, both in new contracts and significant contract renewals. And we believe that our opportunities pipeline provides confidence in a near- to mid-term upside for eprocurement solutions. During the quarter, workforce-related savings were partially offset by restructuring costs, mainly due to termination benefits. For other operational savings, including those relating to office reductions and the integration activities that we mentioned earlier, the full benefits of these, which include better positive cash flow to come are not fully reflected in our Q1 results. The further office space reductions will take effect at the maturity of our Longueuil head office lease at the beginning of Q3 and with other US-based lease reductions under negotiation and also expected around the Q3 timeframe. We expect to maintain a positive adjusted EBITDA on an increasing trajectory.

So turning back to Q1 revenues, our Q1 right of use revenue, so what we would call our SaaS subscription revenue, increased by 5.3% from Q1 prior year, which is typically recurring in nature. We benefited from other revenue of CAD 0.4 million in Q1 2024 for the post-closing transition services that we provided to the acquirer of InterTrade. And despite growth in our right of use revenues, we did see a decrease compared to Q1 last year of transaction fee revenue of CAD 1.9 million compared to the prior year, but this is mainly relating to the sale of InterTrade.

Professional services decreased by CAD 0.8 million compared to Q1, and this was expected. It's mainly from our ecommerce platform as large client deployments were completed and certain clients slowed down projects in 2023, and also as we near the completion of some large implementation on our US-based eprocurement customers.

Our eprocurement platform performed well with revenues of CAD 20.3 million, representing an increase of 13.5% compared to CAD 17.9 million in Q1 last year. Our US-based eprocurement activities also contributed positively to revenue growth with an increase in revenue of 17% over the same period prior year. Recurring revenue as a percentage of total revenue for the eprocurement platform was 88.5% for Q1, compared to 86.8% in Q1 of the previous year.

For the ecommerce platform, which we used to call Unified Commerce before the sale of InterTrade, it generated revenues of CAD 5.9 million for Q1 this year, as compared to CAD 3.8 million compared to Q1 prior year. There are two main reasons for the overall decrease in Unified Commerce, one is the sale of InterTrade, which as I mentioned earlier accounts for CAD 3.4 million of revenue decrease of the CAD 3.8 million total; and again, partly offset by the other revenue that I mentioned earlier of CAD 0.4 million. ecommerce also had the lower professional services, mainly in Orckestra, as a result of completing the customer deployments.

In our emarketplaces platform, which generated CAD 4.8 million for the quarter, that represents 5.1% increase compared to Q1 of the previous year. Recurring revenue for emarketplaces also increased to 83.9% from 79.4% in Q1 2023. Our emarketplaces platforms are well-established and mature and our objective is to continue to operate them efficiently and profitably by maintaining competitive pricing and by managing our costs. And I invite you to look at our appendix A in the slide deck for the reconciliation of net earnings and loss to adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net earnings.

Finally, on a balance sheet position at June 30, 2023, the cash position net of debt drawn on the revolving facility, which was CAD 5.7 million less cash on hand CAD $6 million, represents a net cash position of CAD 0.3 million, compared to a net debt position of CAD 3.4 million in March of 2023. Restructuring costs that were paid in the quarter relating to reducing our workforce had an unfavorable impact on our closing Q1 cash position. But with the various initiatives that we've taken, we anticipate improvements on our cash flow from operations in fiscal 2024 compared to 2023, and despite some levels of variability based on timing of working capital, including the timing of collecting ebusiness tax credits that we filed annually.

So, there we go. With that, over to you, Luc.

Thanks, Deborah. Quite impressive. Every KPI that we monitor has significantly bettered over the last few quarters. In closing, I'd like to emphasize that with the acceleration that we see in the conversion of our pipeline, with the savings that we've made but are not yet fully reflected in the current quarter, I'm confident that we will continue to see significant improvements in our financial performance and cash flows over the quarters to come.

I'd like to now open the floor for questions. Sabrina, would you take over?

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Kevin Krishnaratne of Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Hey, there. Good morning, team. Sorry, I joined the call a bit late, so I'm not sure if this question was asked, but just – in both of the Unified Commerce and Strategic Sourcing, did you see organic growth year-over-year or are you seeing the trend down year-over-year?

In eprocurement, Kevin, as we mentioned during the call, there was a 13.5% growth that is organic. In ecommerce, when you factor out the sale of InterTrade, there is a little bit of a reduction, mostly caused by the lowering of professional services for which various large implementation projects were completed. So the revenue from these professional services are no longer present.

The 13.5% in insourcing, does that account for – do you add back the deferred impact in Periscope in last Q1 or is that what you're doing there?

No. So that's the GAAP number, Kevin. So that if you go into the MD&A and you look at our eprocurement revenue, the numbers that we disclosed would be the 13.5%, so it's the IFRS accounting. But you're correct that if you factor in the deferred revenue, we would have been able to record last year had we not had that adjustment; that percentage would be a bit lower.

Would be lower. Yeah. Okay. Okay. No. And then just on – okay, great on that. And then, on both the segments then, you talked about the pipeline conversions. So do we kind of like take – if I look at your strategic sourcing, CAD 20.3 million, do we expect that to accelerate into the coming quarters or is it more of a back half-weighted dynamic? Just what are you seeing in terms of the ability for that pipeline to convert?

As we mentioned, we've announced numerous contracts over the last few months, and many of these tenders were or actually presented shortly before we made the acquisition of Periscope or shortly after. We continued to present various proposals at various public organizations during those times and it does seem like it's finally coming to fruition and the decisions are being made at our clients level to go ahead and invest in these in these procurement systems. So, yes, we expect to see a continued good news coming from various customers that are currently in our pipeline.

Okay. Got it. And then the same thing, again, looking at what you did in k-ecommerce, then Orckestra, do you see those steadily increasing over the coming quarters? It looks like at Orckestra, you were up from Q4 to Q1 at least.

In both our ecommerce property, these are highly sensitive to market conditions. So Orckestra tailors more to large retailers and we are not seeing an increase of volume nor I would say a numerous customers looking to either completely modernize their ecommerce platforms or solutions or add further functionalities.

On the B2B side, where k-ecommerce specializes because we sell there an ecommerce system that is integrated with the ERPs of mid to small businesses, we see a continued influx of new customers. However, these customers are relatively small in nature and it would take a volume of these customers in order to increase. We don't see multimillion dollar contracts in k-ecommerce. Those are significantly smaller. But there is demand and especially since we launched our integration with Acumatica, we are building up a nice pipeline there.

Okay. Got it.

But as I said...

And maybe, Kevin, just to add...

Yes.

...that, I mean, you are correct that the revenues actually did increase from Q4, so we are up about almost 6% in that ecommerce platform from Q4.

Okay. Got it. Thanks for that, Deborah. It's helpful. And then maybe last one for me, probably for Deborah. The CAD 1.4 million in restructuring that you booked in Q1, where do those – how do you think about where those are located in the various OpEx line items? And I'm trying to get a sense of how to take the Q1 sales and marketing R&D, G&A and think about the run rates heading into Q2, given you've done all that restructuring.

Yeah. A large portion of that is relating to the salaries and termination benefits. So the answer would be it would follow the employees, so partly in our cost of revenues and partly in G&A sales and marketing and tech. So, I don't have a specific head count to give you an allocation, but let's say with – I guess they were mostly cost of revenue and I guess [indiscernible] (00:26:14) across the 40 people that we did lay off, it's really across the platform and in various areas, so it'd be hard for me to give you a split. You might want to divide it by four approximately.

By four. Okay. So, again, so if you did your – if I do the math here, your cost of sales as a percent of revenue was almost 43%. So that will come down in the Q because there is some restructuring booked in there, right?

Yes.

That will come down. And then, if I look at your OpEx for Q1, it was in total CAD 20.8 million, now, [indiscernible] (00:26:58) that will move down as well split, and you're saying kind of just take that CAD 1.4 million and split it four ways between those four buckets, the OpEx and...

Yeah. Like – and, again, we don't give guidance on how many people were affected in each of the departments, so...

Yeah.

I mean we would really generalized workforce reduction, so probably a fair assumption to make.

And are there any more restructurings expected in Q2 that will impact the adjusted EBITDA?

Nothing significant that we expect at this time.

Okay. Okay. Great. Thanks. I'll pass the line. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Filiatreault for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you again, Sabrina. Thank you, all, for being with us this morning. We're quite excited about the results that we are showing to you this morning. And we will continue to work towards improving these in the coming weeks and months. Have a great end of summer and we'll be, I guess, speaking to you when we announce Q2 mid-November. I don't have the date in front of me. Speak to you soon. Thank you, all.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect. Thank you.