Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Luc Filiatreault — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, mdf commerce inc.
Deborah Dumoulin — Chief Financial Officer, mdf commerce inc.
Kevin Krishnaratne — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Amr Ezzat — Analyst, Echelon Wealth Partners, Inc.
Deepak Kaushal — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Corp. (Canada)
Nick Agostino — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by. This is the conference operator. Welcome to the mdf commerce Q2 Fiscal 2023 Financial Results Investor Conference Call. Today's call will provide information and commentary on the company, with a focus on the financial results released this morning before the market opened.

We will hear from Luc Filiatreault, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Deborah Dumoulin, Chief Financial Officer. If you have any questions following the call, you can reach mdf commerce at the address at their website, www.mdfcommerce.com. First, here are a couple of housekeeping notices. All participants are in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call. This call is being recorded, and we expect that the recording will be available on the mdf commerce website later today.

The information in today's remarks, including any forward-looking statements, has been prepared as of September 30, 2022, unless otherwise indicated. mdf commerce assumes no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements to reflect any new events or circumstances, except as may be required pursuant to securities law.

We remind you that today's remarks will include forward-looking statements and non-IFRS measurement that are subject to important risks and uncertainties. For more information on these risks and uncertainties, please see the reader advisory at the bottom of mdf commerce news release, which is on their website and has been filed on www.sedar.com. The company's actual performance could differ materially from these statements.

I will now hand the call over to Mr. Filiatreault. Please go ahead, sir.

Well. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us for our Q2 fiscal 2023 result call. We will turn to the results we filed this morning in a moment. But first, I would like to take a bit of time to tell you about mdf commerce and the state of operation. mdf is a developer and operator of digital commerce platforms that facilitate billions of dollars a year of digital commerce transactions, for well over 550,000 end-user companies, mostly in North America. Our mission is to enable the flow of commerce.

Subsequent to the end of the second quarter, we executed a consequential transaction that significantly improved our balance sheet and further streamlined our strategic focus. As we've announced previously, the sale of Inter Trade generated cash proceeds of approximately CAD 66 million that we used to repay long term debt, which has strengthened our balance sheet. Deborah, our CFO, will provide more details on the positive financial impact of this transaction in just a few minutes.

In Q2 fiscal 2023 results released, we also disclosed a noncash goodwill impairment charge of CAD 85 million. This noncash accounting charge has no impact on the availability of working capital, debt covenant, cash flows, our operations, or on our ability to execute our strategic plan. This impairment is due to significant increases in the interest rates by the US Federal Reserve, as well as the revised financial forecast from the expected timing of achieving certain growth objectives, particularly in our eprocurement line the business. This essentially means that some of the deals that are in our pipeline are taking longer than previously expected to convert.

As you know, conversion cycles for the public sector are typically longer than in the private sector. And US states have not awarded any significant eprocurement contracts in the last year. In order to address our go-to-market strategy, we recently hired Thierry Jaffry, eprocurement Chief Growth Officer, who comes to us with more than 15 years of experience in selling large procurement systems. Deborah will go into more detail about the impairment charge during the prepared remarks.

When we look at our Q2 performance, we're pleased to report that with prudent cost management, operational streamlining and strategic focus, we've achieved a positive adjusted EBITDA of CAD 1.4 million in the quarter. We are focused on maintaining positive adjusted EBITDA going forward, and we remain focused on our organic growth objectives.

Now, in terms of operations, our focus remains on two core platforms eprocurement and Unified Commerce, which include ecommerce and the recently sold, InterTrade, our supply chain collaboration platform. After the quarter, we will report on this platform simply as ecommerce. Current market conditions remain favorable for our eprocurement technology, which targets state and local governments across North America.

Despite uncertain global macroeconomic conditions that are impacting many sectors of the economy, these government agencies continue to digitize their procurement function. In August 2021, at the time of the Periscope acquisition, we were active on less than five large epro TRX state opportunities. Today, I am pleased to say that we are now active on approximately a dozen different epro TRX opportunities across Canada and in the US. Our leadership position in North American public eprocurement, combined with our innovative transactional model that we call the TRX, position us favorably to capitalize on this growing market.

For example, subsequent to quarter end, we announced that Walmart is now integrated in our Arkansas TRX model, branded ARBuy. We are working to bring more suppliers to our platform in order to capture maximum spending budget and create more long-term stickiness for the states that we are deploying. We have now fully gone live with our contract lifecycle management solution and fully integrated with epro in Massachusetts. And we are progressing on the TRX deployment in New Jersey.

Switching to ecommerce, for the quarter, the total revenue was slightly down by CAD 0.7 million, but the recurring revenue as a percentage of total revenue was up from 57% to 61% this year, as we have completed the integration for certain [ph] tech billers (00:07:29). We continue to see some challenging market conditions for the ecommerce business where the other order volume and the opportunity pipeline has been impacted by sustaining inflation, even more significantly over the past three quarters.

For example, there continues to be a pullback online ordering in some of our key inflation-sensitive verticals like grocery. We continue to right-size operations for current market conditions with an emphasis on improving profitability. That being said, we have had success during the quarter launching two sites for Hach, which is a Danaher subsidiary; and renewing Dollarama for another three years.

Last quarter, we announced that we changed our sales emphasis in ecommerce, away from large platform sales to focus on our order management system that we call, OMS. This helps retailers ensure an optimal consumer experience within a hybrid shopping environment. Out-of-the-box product does not require a client to re-platform and can easily be layered onto existing tech stack in a much shorter timeframe. Another product that we are focusing on is our integrated payment solution for small-medium businesses where we've made solid sales progress. Moving forward after the sale of InterTrade, the unified ecommerce platform will simply be renamed ecommerce.

Our emarketplaces performed well during the quarter, primarily due to the unique market conditions created by the supply chain challenges in both the electronic and automotive market sectors. Cash flow from our legacy solutions remains helpful to fuel investments in our two core platforms.

Finally, I'd like to update you on some changes within our Board of Directors. Zoya Shchupak and Christian Dumont have resigned effective, November 11, 2022. The members of our board and the management team are very grateful to both for their support and valuable contributions over the years.

Now, I'd like to ask Deborah to provide information on the company's financial results.

Thanks, Luc. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to remind you that you can find our Q2 results press release, MD&A and financial statements both on SEDAR and on our website. Subsequent to quarter end, on October 4, we closed the sale of InterTrade for total cash consideration of CAD 65.8 million. That's $48.5 million, subject to certain closing adjustments and amounts held in escrow of approximately CAD 3 million. The net cash proceeds represents approximately 5 times revenue on a last-12-months basis, based on the year ended March 31, 2022.

By executing on tax planning strategies, the net proceeds from the sale are expected to be completely sheltered from taxes payable. We also benefited from a US to Canadian FX rate that was CAD 1.3574 at closing, which was favorable to the corporation with the cash consideration from the sale being in US dollars.

While we close out Q2 with long-term debt net of cash at CAD 57.5 million, which compares to CAD 49.5 million in June of 2022, with the net cash at closing, we fully repaid the term facility, which was $16 million or approximately CAD 20.1 million. And the remaining amount was used to pay down the revolving facility. This debt repayment subsequent to quarter end significantly deleverages the balance sheet, therefore, improving our capital structure and liquidity and provides additional flexibility to execute on our strategic plan.

As a consequence of the closing of the transaction, a third amendment to the credit agreement was signed on October 4, 2022. It provides for a waiver of the fixed charge coverage ratio, which is replaced by a minimum EBITDA. And this is EBITDA as defined under the credit agreement, which is more similar to adjusted EBITDA that we publish publicly. And this is required for the quarters ending December 31, 2020, March 31, 2023, and June 30, 2023 as well.

As well, until June 30, 2023, any borrowings in excess of CAD 30 million will require approval of the lender. The company is in compliance with all of its financial covenants at Q2 of this year. The repayment of debt, combined with the minimum EBITDA and the cost containment strategies that were initiated and executed on in Q2 and in early Q3 further solidify our focus on managing the business to positive adjusted EBITDA.

As Luc mentioned earlier, I'll provide a bit of further context on the CAD 85 million goodwill impairment loss that we recorded in the quarter on the Periscope cash-generating unit. The impairment loss is based on an impairment test, which was performed in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS. The goodwill impairment charge represents the amount by which the carrying value, or the book value of the Periscope cash generating unit exceeds the estimated recoverable amount.

As at September, the recoverable amount was determined using a value-and-use approach, which uses management's estimates of the discounted future cash flow forecast for the next several years. There were two main factors that contributed to the goodwill impairment loss. First, interest rate increases by the US Federal Reserve in both Q1 and Q2 of this year at 125 and 150 basis points, respectively, had a significant impact on the pre-tax discount rates that we use in calculating value and use in the recoverable amount for this Periscope cash-generating unit. And thus, interest rates are quite a bit higher than they were at March and accounts for approximately CAD 35 million of the impairment loss that was recorded.

Second, longer, new business sales cycles in the US public sector has resulted in slower sales growth ramp up as compared to the original business plan and resulted in a downward revision of forecast for Periscope. I reiterate what Luc said earlier, that this noncash IFRS impairment charge does not impact our cash position or cash flow from operations, financial debt covenants or liquidity and does not have an impact on our future operations or on our strategic plan.

So, I move on now to the financial highlights of the second quarter, and I'll cover Q2 of this year, which you can find summarized on page 7 of the investors presentation. And I'll refer you also to page 8 for the year-to-date results, which I won't cover specifically in my remarks. Q2 revenue was CAD 33.2 million compared to CAD 25 million in Q2 of last year. This represents an increase of 32% year-over-year and an increase of CAD 3.2 million sequentially from the CAD 32 million in Q1.

Q2 recurring revenue represents CAD 26.5 million compared to CAD 19.4 million in Q2 prior year, representing an increase of 36.5% year-over-year. Recurring revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 79% for Q2 compared to 74.3% in Q2 last year. This recurring revenue is now trending towards 80% recurring revenue.

Subsequent to the August 31, 2021, acquisition of Periscope, revenue from US clients represents a larger portion of our business in 2023 at just under 61% for Q2 this year compared to 50% last year. For the eprocurement platform, the largest of our two core platforms, it generated revenue of CAD 19.3 million,, an increase of 71% compared to CAD 11.3 million in Q2 2022, which included only one month post acquisition of Periscope.

Due to Periscope's US focus, the corporation's US eprocurement revenue grew by 106.6% to CAD 14.4 million in Q2 compared to CAD 7 million reported in the same quarter of the prior year. Total consolidated US-based eprocurement revenue represents CAD 14 million or 74.7% of the CAD 19.5 million for Q2 2023 compared to 61.9% of Q2 2022 revenues which were CAD 11.3 million.

Ever since the acquisition of Periscope, we've been disclosing that there was an unfavorable impact on revenues of a fair value adjustment on deferred revenues at the closing balance sheet date of the acquisition. And this was an accounting adjustment that was required as part of the acquisition accounting. For Q2 this year, this adjustment resulted in a reduction in revenue of CAD 0.3 million compared to CAD 1 million in Q2 of last year and CAD 1.3 million in Q1 of this year. Q2 represents the last quarter of this adjustment. Monthly recurring revenue for the eprocurement platform was CAD 16.9 million for Q2 this year compared to CAD 10.8 million in Q2 of the prior year. Recurring revenue as a percentage of total revenue was CAD 86.3 million compared to CAD 87.8 million for Q2 of the prior year.

Our other core platform, ecommerce, which includes both ecommerce and supply chain collaboration solutions, generated CAD 9.2 million for Q2 this year, compared to CAD 10 million for Q2 of the prior year, a decrease of 7.9%. The decrease is partly explained by lower transaction volumes this quarter compared to prior year, but more significantly, due to lower professional services revenue of CAD 0.7 million.

As we complete customer deployments and integration work, we expect that total revenue from this platform will decrease. However, the percentage of recurring revenue will increase. Recurring revenue from the Unified Commerce platform represents CAD 5.9 million or 63.5% of platform revenue, compared to CAD 5.8 million or CAD 57.4 million for Q2 last year. As previously mentioned, as customer deployments are completed, the percentage of recurring revenue will increase.

For emarketplaces, generated revenue of CAD 44.7 million in Q2 of this year, which is an increase of 24.1% compared to revenues in the same quarter of last year of CAD 3.7 million. The revenue growth in emarketplaces continues to be driven primarily by The Broker Forum, which is an electronic parts marketplace where transaction volumes have increased, mainly due to the global supply chain shortages.

Turning now to gross margins for Q2 of this year, it was CAD 19.4 million or 58.3% compared to CAD 14.3 million or 56.9% for Q2 of last year. The improvement in gross margin percentage is mainly from lower professional services expenses, which have lower margins than our typical right-of-use revenue. For Q2, total operating expenses were CAD 23.3 million, an increase of 1% compared to CAD 23.1 million for Q2 of the previous year, which includes only one month of Periscope. Q2 2023 had a significant decrease in acquisition-related costs of CAD 4.6 million in Q2 of last year, and only CAD 0.8 million in Q2 of this year relating to the sale of InterTrade.

The corporation recorded an operating loss in Q2 of 2023 of CAD 3.9 million compared to CAD 8.8 million in Q2 of the previous year. The lower operating loss is mainly due to the decrease in acquisition-related costs, as previously mentioned, offset by higher amortization and depreciation, mainly on intangible assets from the Periscope acquisition.

While net loss was CAD 89.8 million or CAD 2.04 per share, basic and diluted in Q2 of this year, CAD 85 million of this is the noncash goodwill impairment charge. Therefore, adjusted net loss, which excludes the goodwill impairment charge, was CAD 4.8 million or CAD 0.11 per share, basic and diluted, compared to CAD 6.3 million or CAD 0.19 per share, basic and diluted, in Q2 of the previous year.

Adjusted EBITDA was positive for Q2 at CAD 1.4 million compared to an adjusted EBITDA loss of CAD 0.4 million in the previous year's Q2 and an adjusted EBITDA loss of CAD 1.1 million that we reported in Q1 of this year. Year-to-date, Q2 2023 positive adjusted EBITDA is CAD 0.3 million compared to CAD 1.9 million EBITDA loss for the first six months of last year. With the sale of InterTrade, our annual consolidated revenue is expected to decrease by approximately CAD 14 million on a going forward basis.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Luc.

Thanks, Deborah. So, over the next few quarters, our strategy continues to be adding further focus and simplification to our operation. Our key focus is organic growth in our core platforms, eprocurement and ecommerce. Our near-term emphasis is on accelerating the conversion of our growing eprocurement pipeline.

Despite some temporary slowdowns and deployment, this platform had strong market tailwinds, as well as an efficient and appealing business model. We believe that by concentrating our operational efforts on this market vertical, we can yield higher-margin, high-quality revenue growth. With that, we've added sales leadership to the platform to help drive conversion and deployment of the TRX model. In addition, over the next few quarters, we will be consolidating our brands into a single offering to help maximize our sales and marketing effectiveness and reduce overall costs.

As I mentioned in my opening remarks, as we continue to right-size our operations to the market realities of the ecommerce platform, we've experienced encouraging sales for our payment solution, which targets SMBs in the B2B segment and an emerging pipeline of opportunities for our order management systems, the OMS. Within ecommerce, we will continue to drive towards improving profitability, while exploiting the opportunities for new revenue in order management and payment products. Although volumes at egrocery have been impacted negatively by inflation, volumes within other ecommerce sectors remain more stable, providing a stable and recurring transactional revenue base for the business.

We expect that Q3 will benefit from seasonal volumes, which typically increase due to Black Friday, Cyber Monday and a general pick up in volumes that occurs over the holiday season. Management will continue to work diligently on operational efficiencies with additional efforts to reduce costs and prioritize the critical aspects of our business that drive organic growth and contribute to our goal of maintaining positive adjusted EBITDA and improving profitability.

Despite macroeconomic uncertainties, we are confident that the digital transformation of businesses process will continue and that the corporation will be able to benefit from this trend through its main platforms. Our diversified and unique business solutions combined with our industry expertise, position us well to capture new market share, while continuing to support our current long-term customers in unprecedented times.

And with that, I'm happy to open the line up for questions. Rocco, can you please take care of that?

Absolutely. [Operator Instructions] And today's first question comes from Kevin Krishnaratne with Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Hey there. Good morning. I had a question for you on the eprocurement side of things, the organic growth there. Maybe if you could talk about the near-term expectations there. I think Periscope, now, you did CAD 9.6 million, but adjusted for the deferred revenue, about CAD 10 million. Can you just talk about what you're seeing near term?

There's a couple of things going on there, right? You've got the sales cycle increasing, but you've got some sort of new opportunities that you're working on. And then on things other than Periscope, I think you're growing sort of in the 8%, 9% range organically. Can you just help us understand the near-term trends?

Well, thanks, Kevin, for the question. As we mentioned, about a year ago, we were really working on basically a handful of opportunities for the large procurement systems deployment. And today, with some focus on growing our pipeline, we have approximately a dozen of these opportunities across both Canada and US.

The sales cycles were definitely longer than we had expected. And we have confirmation that no large procurement deals were awarded by any states or provinces in the last 12 to 15 months. So, the pressure is building up to get something in the works. And we're confident that over the coming quarters, this pipeline will materialize into some large-size procurement implementation.

I would say, the general tone in the technology market where many large tech companies have proceeded to quite significant layoffs, should also ease the pressure on recruiting folks. So, we expect to be able to gain back some speed on the implementation. So, more to come, but clearly, some good tailwinds and some very strong demand. On...

Oh, sorry. Go ahead.

I was going to say, when you referred to, what we call, the classic eprocurement business, which does grow at approximately 8% or 9% per year, that part of the business is the part that currently touches approximately 6,500 agencies across North America in Canada. And we keep adding agencies there all the time. We currently have a base of approximately 550,000 suppliers that continue to use our various portals in order to obtain business from the government.

So, that's basically our sourcing capability, where we have multiple brand that serve the market. And we're also in the final stages of bringing all those brands into something a bit more comprehensive, so that we have better sales and marketing efficiency, but also lower costs.

Okay. Thanks for that color, Luc. I just wanted to confirm, on the Periscope side, there was – obviously, you said softness from the macro and the spending. But you also alluded to the fact of resource. So, was there some impact that you think will ease on your end by being able to have access to better talent and that should resolve in the coming quarters.

Definitely, right. Periscope is what brought us the complete source-to-pay capabilities in with the transactional model. And as we had mentioned in multiple other quarters, there are some projects on which that we are working, where availability of talent was difficult and made us experience slower than expected progress.

We're starting to see some ease of that. We're starting to see less people go. Although it's still early days, I'm expecting that we'll see a lot less poaching happening in our ranks. So, keeping our resources, having a bit easier times to hire people as needed in order to execute on the projects should definitely be – create positive outcomes in the coming quarters.

Okay. Good to hear. Maybe a question for Deborah on EBITDA in the quarter, can you talk about that? There was a restructuring charge added back, as well as acquisition costs. Can you just walk us through those, and how do we think about those two line items going forward?

And I guess related to that, do we expect to see adjusted EBITDA continue to move up here, or is there kind of going to be a walking back down? I know that there probably was some benefit from InterTrade in the quarter that goes away. Can you talk about different pieces there on adjusted EBITDA?

Right. So in terms of the adjusted EBITDA, with respect to acquisition cost, so there was CAD 0.8 million in the quarter that is related to the acquisition of InterTrade. So, again, we don't give forward guidance on whether there's anything in the pipeline, but essentially that is the one-time cost. So, that will go away. Restructuring costs, we do had some terminations in the quarter, but I would say that we did more of a restructuring exercise at the beginning of Q3. So, there will be some additional costs there in Q3.

With respect to EBITDA, we don't give guidance on the EBITDA, but there was positive EBITDA from InterTrade. So, that will obviously put some pressure on adjusted EBITDA after the quarter. But again, we've done quite a bit of cost containment, considering that. I think that sums up what I would be able to say at this point.

I think that the – and one last small one there. Is there any benefit on FX moves in the quarter on EBITDA, given your cost base – maybe just remind us of your exposure? You've got a Canadian cost base, US dollar revenue.

Yeah. So, we do, do some hedging to protect that, but we do have a favorable impact, in the sense that a lot of our revenue is in the US. But we still continue to have a cost basis of people that are in in Canada. But more and more, the US revenue is serviced by US employees, so there's less of a revenue and cost impact.

But we do have approximately 60% of our revenue in the US, which is obviously benefiting from a higher conversion to Canadian dollar, where the rates have been close to at CAD 1.35, I think certainly at the end of September, beginning of October.

Got it. Okay. Thanks. That's all for me. I'll pass the line.

And our next question today comes from Amr Ezzat with Echelon Partners. Please go ahead.

Hello, and good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I just want to circle back on Kevin's question on Periscope. I guess you guys reset your internal forecasts with that impairment charge. I'm just trying to think about the growth prospects of the platform over the next couple of quarters in light of these revised forecasts. Is it a fair statement to say high-visibility platform but flattish, medium-term top line? Do you feel that's a fair statement to make, or should we be expecting some sort of growth?

Hello, Amr. Well, as you saw, we moved proactively in terms of strengthening our bench in terms of sales and marketing, because we were seeing some softness and delays. And we, again, mentioned that we're active on many more of these opportunities, and some should materialize in the coming quarters.

The reason we had to make that impairment adjustment, and Deborah can comment further, is we had expected, initially, some of these deals to close earlier, which obviously, when you look at it in the long run, generate revenue for a longer period of time. When you push them out, the revenue isn't lost. But as it starts further, you also accumulate it for less time. At least that's my understanding of it. This being said, we're very confident that the demand is very strong. The various discussions that we have with the various states, and counties, and large municipalities are very positive. It's really a question of pushing through and making sure that these deals end up happening.

We were very well-positioned from a competitive perspective. We certainly see that our product is getting more and more traction. That is, it is really specifically tailored towards meeting public sector requirements in procurement. And on that sense, what we did with Walmart in Arkansas is rather unique. And it allows Arkansas employees – Arkansas state employees, of course, to buy from Walmart, Walmart the website, inside of their regular operation. And that's, again, quite unique. And we're trialing all that out. If it works as we expect, it could lead to some significant increase in the spend happening through retailers such as the Walmarts of the world.

So, very positive development on many front, but yet delays which have multiple causes that – we even see in some various Gartner reports that, definitely, we're not the only ones feeling this, and it seems to be across the market, a bit more specifically in the US. I'd expect that to resume at a bit more normal pace, given the ease on resources and the general, better availability of tech talent.

Okay. So, flat with a positive bias, hopefully, is what I'm hearing. On the cost-containment efforts, are they only targeting like ecom, or are there other areas of the business where you guys are seeing opportunities? Then, how far along are we in these efforts? When you guys like sit and think about your cost structure, are you guys seeing a lot of other opportunities to sort of right-size the business, or are we in the very late innings of that?

It's all a question of the simplification of the model. As you know, we're integrating multiple platforms, continuing to move legacy applications that are still, in some cases, running on local servers. So, we're moving all that to the cloud, and that's, in good part, complete. We now are into the process of gradually retiring everything we no longer need, continuing to simplify the applications and run everything on a single platform. And that's what will create the economies of scales that we're starting to see appear. So, it's not just ecommerce, it's across the board, where we were – various simplification tasks that we undertook many quarters ago are starting to produce fruit.

Okay. Then in ecom, like how far along are you guys with that process? Like, are we you guys still see a lot of opportunities to right-size or are we largely done?

In ecom, I'd say, it's a question of market. The platforms that we have in ecommerce are significantly more recent. We have less of a legacy issue there. We're more adjusting our costs, our capabilities to the current market demand. As we've said, in previous quarters, online ordering of certain goods and services is at a low point compared to what it was during COVID,, where restrictions probably created the urge to do a lot of ordering online. So, we're adjusting the cost based on that, while we are releasing certain products that prove to have some legs.

The OMS on the Orckestra is definitely showing a lot of interest. We see some good demand, but it's early days and the building of that pipeline. And where we're definitely having some significant success is through the selling of the payment application, the KIP application into ecommerce. And that's something we're upselling first to our existing customer base. So, we should gradually start to see some positive outcome of that aspect.

Great. I'm wondering – and I'm not sure you'll have an answer for me or maybe arrange, like if I were to exclude Orckestra, what does EBITDA look like for the rest of mdf? Does your 4% EBITDA margin reported this quarter, go to like 15% to 20% without Orckestra? Is that fair?

Well, as you know, Amr, I think you said it in your intro. We don't publish, or we don't comment on profitability per sector. So, I'll have to defer to your calculations there.

Okay. Then, maybe another way to add this question like do you guys have some profitability targets or an EBITDA margin range that we should be thinking about, be it medium term or long term? Are you guys like targeting like 4% or 5%? Is it like 10% to 15%? And I understand you guys don't give guidance, but maybe like a range would be helpful.

Potentially, Deborah, you can add some further color to this. But right now, we're really working and focusing on improving – driving towards greater targets. As you saw, we've already accomplished some inroads in the Q2. So, we definitely are continuing to do that, but I won't comment on long-term targets.

Okay. That's what I expected. One last one, are you guys like resizing the board to five members, or will you be looking to replace the two board members who stepped down?

Short term, we'll operate with the five members. The wealth of experience that there is very helpful. So, this board, as you know, is just starting. It only was elected just in September during the AGM. So, we'll probably let a couple of quarters go by, and then see where we end up. But for now, I'd say that it's quite efficient to have it this way. And it certainly goes into focus simplification elements that are in the rest of the company.

Great. Thanks. Congrats on the positive EBITDA prints. I'll pass the line.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Deepak Kaushal with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a quick follow up, but I have a couple more. Luc, just on the impairment charge, did I hear you correctly that the change in the demand outlook is really was the result of the macro, or is there anything specific that's delaying some of these deals? What other nuance or color can you give us, regarding what's taking longer than you expected originally?

I'd say, and you can read up on this. It seems to be across the board. But generally, the public sector has been slower and in approving many or getting really the deals done and started. We have many of our states that are passed, points where we know we will be the party, but the projects have just not been able to start for various reasons. And we see that across the board. We feel that this, now, is in part, I hope, behind us and the strength of the talent that we brought in, in terms of additional bench power and sales marketing should really help ease that off. So, we're positive about those possibilities, Deepak.

Okay. So you've been selected for some of these, but they're just slower to get started for various reasons? Is that correct?

Yeah, exactly, correct.

I'm just curious. What's the pressure on the government for doing nothing and for staying with their incumbent system here? Like, is there increasing costs or increasing efficiencies that something become obsolete, or can things function as they are now? Maybe you can give us a sense of their motivation to actually start this stuff in a tougher macro.

Multiple elements that carry that. One is that, there are definitely some efficiencies from digitizing the process. And in almost all cases, we're not replacing any existing technology platforms, other than email, faxes and in some cases, still some lots of paper trails and paper processing of RFP. So, a digitizing process is very effective and does bring costs down.

Of course, when you deal at the government level, there's always the notion of the balance between managing costs and making sure you don't have large-sized layoffs or things like that. So, the additional pressure that comes at the various procurement departments that we're in touch with comes from the fact that they're very – the staff is unfortunately pretty old, and there are many, many people retiring. Procurement is not exactly the sexiest area of study, so it's quite hard for most of our governments to continue to attract new people. So, the fact that they have large pieces of their workforce retiring creates the additional pressure to bring in digitizing systems, which can function with a lot less people.

And the third is, as you know, in our TRX model, we actually return some money to the government. So, these additional revenue are being budgeted inside of the various procurement divisions. And that creates the third incentive on which to get this up and running. So, we clearly have articulated way better at value proposition over time, and where we're starting to see the results of that.

Okay, now that's really helpful. Any changes on the competition side, and particularly eprocurement, given there has been consolidation in the sector, including your acquisition of Periscope?

We still feel that we're pretty much the only guy, the only company with a complete procure-to-pay solution that's 100% adapted to the public sector. We've seen some of the existing competition actually move away from the public sector. And of course, the large guys always offer some form or another of a solution. And I'm thinking the usual suspects like SAP Ariba, Oracle, NetSuite or those guys. But they don't have anything that's tailored to the public sector the same way we do, which covers the complete procure-to-pay, including all of the RFPs, the contract lifecycle management and all that.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. On the ecommerce side, you mentioned payment distributor order management. You mentioned slowdown in, I presume, the grocery side. Where are the other verticals where you guys have the most differentiation and where there's the most opportunity here?

Well, the OMS, is of significant value for all the retail chains that offer hybrid experience with – that continued to drive physical buying in-store, but also want to cover return to store. Returns is handled by the OMS, and that's a costly proposition for retailers. So, the areas in which retail is effective is a lot with clothing, luxury apparatus and things like that.

On the k-commerce side, we're into B2B manufacturing that are creating some of their initial digitizing – digital channels. So, the additional payment capabilities really eases off and creates significant savings that our customers – because in the B2B, unlike B2C commerce, it's not paid at the time of purchase. It is invoiced and paid at a later date. So it needs to be reconciled in the financial systems with the ERPs, et cetera. And we now have the ability to take care of all that. So we see some good positive signals there, but obviously it's in the SMB market. So, we need volumes in order to make a significant difference on the dollars. And that's going to come with time.

Okay. Okay. Thank you for that. And then, one last question for Deborah or you, Luc, as well. Just when you look at your portfolio of businesses, I know in the past you've tried to divest some emarketplaces businesses. You've now divested InterTrade. How are you thinking of the portfolio now? Is there more to prune here or monetize, or kind of at the streamline you want to be for now? How should we think of that, and I have plus one?

Well, I think we've always mentioned, right, that we will – we don't have any assets that are considered actively on sale at all. However, should the right opportunities present themselves, we'll definitely have a serious look. So, I know I'm being a bit vague and opportunistic here, but every asset that we have has a piece in the doable plan.

Okay. Okay. Will just leave it at that for now and then look for the next quarter.

Thank you. And our next...

Address all of the risk elements that you had on your last report.

Thank you. And our next question today comes from Richard Tse with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, it's [ph] James (00:51:42) sitting in for Richard today. He's traveling. But I understand that you revised the revenue synergy expectations on Periscope from three years to three to five years now. Did that also apply to the cost synergies?

We didn't change the assumption on the cost synergies because the cost synergies is much more relating to the integration plan, which is well under way. So, maybe I'll leave it at that. And Luc, might want to add some color to that.

Yeah. I think just said it, Deborah, right. The slow conversion of the pipeline was really what we had not envisioned. On the integration of the platforms, et cetera, that's something that's well under control and well underway across the eprocurement division so.

Okay. Great, thanks. And just one more for me. With interest rates continuing to rise, do you expect more impairment charges on the Periscope acquisition moving forward?

Good question. So, we essentially build the impairment model with various factors and sensitivities, so there's a range of both the WACC or the discount rate, the projections, et cetera. But having said that, typically, you write down the value of the business to its carrying values. So, if there were to be significant increases in interest rates in the future, it could happen again. There's a bit of a buffer, but it certainly could drive another impairment at some future time.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Nick Agostino from Laurentian Bank Securities. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning. I guess just going back to Walmart partnership. If you could just elaborate. You mentioned that it's a trial phase right now. And I'm just wondering, what sort of color can you provide as far as what needs to happen or what sort of success factors are being looked upon to move it to a full-on opportunity? And then, assuming that it's successful, as far as going to other states, is that something that Walmart will promote for you and push for you, or is that something that's left for you guys to do?

Thanks for the question, Nick. Unfortunately, I can't give a lot of color, more than what we've said. As you're aware, Walmart is a very zealously-guarded brand. The fact that they allowed us just to say this was already quite good. This is, as I said, yes, something that they're trying, because currently, they have no structured government offering.

And obviously, success is into user adoption, amounts of transaction, profitability of these transactions, et cetera. and that Walmart will be scrutinizing over time. Do they have other plans at this point in time? I'm not allowed to comment on that.

Okay, fair enough. And then, my second question is, over the last call it, 18 months, you guys have announced a series of other partnerships, Logic, Valtech, Innovate come to mind. And I think I think KPMG was in there as well. Is there any update you could provide as far as where those partnerships sit? And more importantly, if you've gained any wins as a result of those partnerships.

The partnerships were really focused on the ecommerce side of things. And I would even say a lot more on the Orckestra, except potentially for Innovate, where the plan was always to not develop a very large implementation professional services firm. So, we did use various personnel from these firms, over time, in order to deliver certain of our projects.

And you saw in our current quarter that some of these are now finally completed. And they were mostly an answer to shortages of people more than to actual selling channels. Consultants are rarely very efficient in their sales in terms of technology projects. So, we have used them. Obviously, we are – the market evolves the way it did. So we have a little bit less of these large implementations to perform right now.

So, although the partnerships are still active, I'd say that, you know, they're not – it's not top of mind. It's a lot less top of mind than it was when we were dying because we had like 50, 60, 70 open positions to fill up and to get some projects done.

Okay. No, that's fair response. And then, my last one is any thoughts or timing to a potential update on the five-year plan, just given the inter trade divestiture and the slower sales uptake through Periscope, maybe what your five-year plan is from overall revenue? That's something you guys have updated or is that something you plan to share right down the road?

I think that right now, we're certainly more focused on that simplification, organic growth. Typically, our strategic plans when put together our done at the beginning of the year. So, we'll let the holiday pass, and we'll relook at that long term and take into consideration the various macroeconomic changes.

Because if you remember, our strat plan was initially built before COVID happened. Obviously, it sort of took its twists and its turns during COVID. Now that, that's significantly behind us, we might need to readjust certain areas, which we obviously could not have predicted even before this whole crazy period started. So, more to come on that, but it's not – we haven't changed anything at this point in time.

Okay. Thank you. I'll pass the line.

Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to the management team for any final remarks.

Well, thank you very much, all, for being present and for your comments. We're quite positive about our quarter, looking forward for the future, and we'll be talking to you soon. Thanks a lot, and have a great day.

Thank you, sir. This concludes today's conference call. We thank you, all, for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines, and have a wonderful day.