Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Luc Filiatreault — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, MDF Commerce, Inc.
Deborah Dumoulin — Chief Financial Officer, MDF Commerce, Inc.
Nick Agostino — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities, Inc.
Kevin Krishnaratne — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Richard Tse — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by, this is the conference operator. Welcome to the mdf commerce Q1 Fiscal 2022 Results Investor Conference Call. Today's call will provide information and commentary on the company with a focus on the financial results release today after the market closed. We will hear from Luc Filiatreault, President and Chief Executive Officer and Deborah Dumoulin, Chief Financial Officer. If you have questions following the call, you can reach mdf commerce at the address at their website at www.mdfcommerce.com.

First, here are a couple of housekeeping notices. All participants are in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call. This call is being recorded and we expect that the recording will be available on the mdf commerce website later today. The information in today's remarks including any forward-looking statements has been prepared as of June 30, 2021 unless otherwise indicated mdf commerce assumes no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements to reflect any new events or circumstances except as may be required pursuant to securities law. We remind you that today's remarks will include forward-looking statements and non-IFRS financial measures and key performance indicators that are subject to important risks and uncertainties.

For more information on these risk and uncertainties, please see the reader advisory at the bottom of the mdf commerce press release which is on the website and on has been filed on SEDAR. The company's actual performance could differ materially from these statements, the terms and definitions associated with non-IFRS measures as well as a reconciliation to the most comparable IFRS measures and key performance indicators are presented in the section non-IFRS financial measures and key performance indicators in management's discussion and analysis for the first quarter ended June 30, 2021.

I will now hand the call over to Mr. Filiatreault. Please go ahead, sir.

Well, good evening, everyone, and thanks for joining us on this call for our discussion about our Q1 fiscal 2022 results call. So we will review the results that we filed earlier this evening in a few minutes, but first I want to take a bit of time to update you on mdf commerce activities more, specifically the acquisition of Periscope Holding, that we just announced a few minutes ago and that we've all been waiting for. So mdf is a developer and operator of digital commerce platform. Once we complete this acquisition of Periscope, our various platforms will transact and facilitate billions of dollars a year of digital commerce transactions between B2B and B2G for well over 1 million end user companies, mostly in North America.

So, if we turn to the page 5 of our presentation, today we announced this transformational acquisition of Periscope that advances our strategy of becoming a leading player in the B2B and the B2G market with one highly strategic acquisition. The purchase price of CAD 207.3 million is a compelling valuation considering the scale and capabilities that we will gain and positions mdf commerce to achieve near-term profitable growth and generate significant value for our shareholders.

Periscope is an impressive organization that has been on our radar for quite some time now. Periscope brings with it an impressive track record of growth and a strong team of industry professionals that combine with mdf commerce's leadership and existing platform is well-positioned to capitalize on significant public sector procurement opportunities.

Moving to slide 6, we present the key highlights of this transaction. The acquisition of Periscope is highly strategic for mdf commerce as it positions us as a leading public e-Procurement provider creating many opportunities.

First, it broadens our offerings through a fully integrated end-to-end procurement solutions coupled with an innovative self-funded transactional solution. Second, it builds on our US market presence, immediately enhancing our scale and adding a strong well-connected team that will enable us to efficiently serve the full spectrum of government agencies across North America. Third, it allows us to leverage Periscope's innovative transaction fee solution which is expected to drive predictable and scalable revenues at attractive economics.

Fourth, we expect this acquisition to be highly synergistic both on the revenue and on the cost front. And lastly, Periscope enhances mdf commerce's financial profile both in terms of scale and growth. This acquisition is highly strategic and it reinforces our relentless focus on value creation for our shareholders. And I know we've been waiting a long time to get it.

So, turning to page 7. Here are the underlying themes that we find really attractive about the space in which Periscope operates and why now is the right time to complete this transformational acquisition. Number one, existing trends to modernize legacy government procurement systems were highlighted and accelerated by the pandemic. Number two, many governments have ramped up spending campaigns in an effort to stimulate the economy. Number three, government agencies are increasingly looking for a consumer-like shopping experience to acquire the various goods and services that they need. Just yesterday, sorry, this Monday the US Senate just approved Biden's US$1.2 trillion infrastructure bill. We believe that this will be fueling a large increase in public spending that will mostly have to go through these types of platforms that we have. This being said, existing procurement solutions are not purpose-built to meet the needs of government and agency. Most of them are fragmented, they lack functionality, and they rely on legacy technology.

Periscope, that's joining us today, has over 20 years of experience in this space and offers solutions that were specifically built for the public sectors' evolving needs. Our combined platform is well positioned to capture significant market share, especially from a government procurement spend perspective.

Now, let's go to page 8, which provides an overview of Periscope's underlying business and why we believe that it's still complementary to ours. Periscope boasts a large network of government agencies and suppliers across the US with little to no overlap with our own network. Periscope offers a fully integrated end-to-end procurement solution with a modular architecture that is highly configurable to client's specific needs adding to mdf commerce's existing Strategic Sourcing capabilities. Periscope services larger government agency whereas mdf commerce primarily caters to the middle market, the smaller government agency. It recently rolled out a very innovative transactions fee solution which accomplishes several things. It allows customers to utilize our e-Procurement solutions at no out-of-pocket cost and transform mdf commerce from a vendor to a revenue generating partner for these governments and agencies thus saving taxpayers' money.

Once adopted at the state level, it opens up a B2G marketplace, a business-to-government marketplace on which smaller agencies can piggyback on existing supplier agreements. It generates predictable revenues that scale with government procurement spending rather than only relying on annual subscription fees under [ph] a SaaS (00:09:25) solution.

Page 9 provides some insights into the recent performance of Periscope with everything I just described. As mentioned earlier, the business gained significant momentum in the first half of 2021 with a significant uptick in client onboarding and pipeline expansions with the transaction fee solution being a notable driver behind this recent growth. Based on the recent discussions with government agencies and suppliers and given the great visibility we have on pipeline developments for 2021, we are confident this positive momentum will continue. We ourselves have seen significant growth in our US states' strategic sourcing over the last few quarters and we'll show you some numbers in our Q1 results later.

So, page 10 is a high-level transaction summary. The purchase price for Periscope is CAD 207.25 million, including CAD 200.8 million of cash paid at closing. CAD 3.3 million in rollover shares and a CAD 3.3 million retention bonus for employees of Periscope. The purchase price represents a multiple of 4.6 times Periscope's calendar year 2021 revenue including revenue synergies of CAD 15 million, well below the 13x current average forward and multiple for publicly-listed procurement software supplier.

Financing is composed of CAD 92 million of cash from our balance sheet, CAD 92 million. CAD 50 million of available liquidity from our amended and upsized credit facility, a CAD 53 million private placements coming from [ph] Fonds de solidarité FTQ (00:11:27) and Investissement Québec, who are our current two largest investors and will remain our two largest investors; a CAD 68 million bought deal public offering underwritten by Scotia Capital; and finally, CAD 4 million in rollover shares as well as a creation of a CAD 4 million retention bonus for the Periscope folks.

Existing cornerstone investors, FSTQ and IQ account for nearly half of the equity proceeds, which we believe demonstrates the confidence that they have in us pursuing this transformational acquisition. The acquisition is expected to contribute positive cash flow on a per share basis, further highlighting the value it creates for our shareholders. As previously mentioned, the transaction is highly synergistic and we expect at least CAD 15 million in revenue synergies and CAD 5 million in cost synergies within three years. Subject to regulatory approvals, this transaction is expected to close in Q2 of fiscal 2022, which is September of 30th in our case.

Page 11, lists the key pillar underpinning the strategic rationale, which we will cover in more details over the next few pages. The key takeaway here is that the acquisition of Periscope transforms mdf commerce into a leading North American e-Procurement player.

Page 12 illustrates the market's leading metrics of the combined company. As you can see, we will have an established presence in both Canada and in the US with a prominent network of over 6,000 government agencies in states and provinces and approximately 0.5 million active suppliers. We believe our combined network will build on the positive momentum as it provides scale and reinforces our leading position in the North American e-Procurement market.

Page 13 provides a high-level comparison of mdf commerce and Periscope and it really demonstrates how complementary those businesses are. As you can see the acquisition broadens mdf public sector offering into a fully integrated solution with modular capabilities, allowing us to service all types of government agencies and this therefore expand our total addressable market over 100,000 government agencies across North America. Customers will be able to pick up the best of breed solution to meet their specific needs, whether they are large states, a small township and urban school district while maintaining total flexibility. We will be giving government officials consumer-like ability to transact online.

Turning to page 14, Periscope currently offers both SaaS and transaction fee solutions. Under a transaction fee solution, state governments can self-fund their e-Procurement system as they share transaction fees paid by suppliers rather than pay an annual SaaS subscription fee. Therefore, state customers become revenue-generating partners creating incentives for them to onboard local government agencies to the statewide B2G marketplace and increase statewide transaction fee, the spend. Periscope is the first public e-Procurement provider to successfully implement a transaction fee solution at the US state level, providing us with the valuable first mover advantage. This innovative solution generates highly predictable and scalable revenue with attractive economics and is a key driver behind Periscope's growth.

On page 15, we highlight some of the key drivers of both revenue and cost synergies. As indicated previously, we expect this transaction to be highly synergistic with CAD 15 million of annual revenue synergies and CAD 5 million of annual cost synergies, realized within the next three years. First, the revenue synergies resulting from the combinations are primarily driven by the introduction of Periscope's ePro and Marketplace solutions to mdf commerce's network. We intend to leverage each other's customer base as well as key government relationships to sell ePro to additional US states and Canadian provinces and federal government.

We also expect to offer Periscope's marketplace solution to our existing network of over 3,500 government agencies and over 300,000 active suppliers. Think about this. It's almost like an Amazon marketplace, but for government. Integrating the whole network together will offer more value to suppliers and broader access to government contracts thus enabling additional revenue. Second, cost synergies are expected to be primarily driven by workforce-related initiatives, alleviating the need to hire additional talent for sales, product development and other key function. And we all know that talent right now is very rare and difficult to get. Second, efficiencies gained through the harmonization of content aggregation systems and processes, and third, product integration eliminating reliance on third-party.

I'll now pass it over to Deborah, our CFO, to discuss the compelling combined company's financial profile on page 16.

The combined company exhibits a strong combined financial profile. Periscope increases our scale and enhances our growth significantly. mdf commerce revenues for fiscal 2021 were CAD 84.7 million, increasing 36.6% to create a combined revenue of CAD 115 million. Year-over-year growth increases from 13% to 18% for the last six months of June, 2021. mdf commerce percentage of recurring revenue increases from our consolidated 76% to 80%. Combined adjusted EBITDA increases by 44% from CAD 5.7 million to CAD 8.3 million and this is on the historical numbers. Strategic Sourcing and Unified Commerce will now account for 87% of the combined revenues, emphasizing our focus on core platforms and delivering our vision to enable the flow of e-commerce for business and government.

So, thanks, Deborah. As you can see, we're extremely excited by this transaction and the numbers that you just heard as Deborah mentioned are a historical and they don't take into consideration the growth that we showed on previous slides, both on the Periscope side and particularly on the strategic sourcing portion of mdf standalone in the US.

So now moving to slide 17. As I mentioned earlier, our Strat Sourcing and Unified Commerce platforms will now make up approximately 87% of combined revenue. We're getting closer and closer to that one brand, one company vision that we laid out about a year and a half ago. That being said, we're still trading at a significant discount to public comparable companies either in procurement software or in digital commerce.

Now, just before concluding with the last slide on the Periscope presentation, I will ask Deborah to give us a brief overview of our Q1 fiscal 2022 results which are in line with what we were expecting.

Thanks, Luc. So while we have an exciting transaction and we're very excited about it, we're also proud of our Q1 results, so we'd like to go through those. So let's talk about the highlights of Q1 fiscal 2022. So revenue for the quarter was CAD 22.6 million and that compares to CAD 20.5 million in the first quarter of the prior year, representing 10% growth. During the quarter, we are also reporting for the first time, constant currency basis revenue which increased CAD 2.5 million or 12.5% compared to the first quarter of 2021.

For the first quarter of 2021, US denominated revenue totaled 45% of total revenue and therefore we believe that the constant currency, a non-IFRS financial measure is useful to compare the corporation's performance on a constant currency basis and you can refer to our Q1 press release or the MD&A for more information on that. So turning to our two growth platforms, revenues from our strategic sourcing platform for Q1 were CAD 8.9 million representing a 14.8% increase compared to the 7.7% of the first quarter of 2021. Our US based strategic sourcing revenue grew by 32.3% year-over-year including the acquisition of Vendor Registry which we completed in November of 2021.

Unified Commerce had a solid growth with revenues from our Unified Commerce platform which as you'll probably recall, includes e-commerce and supply chain collaboration totaled CAD 9.9 million compared to CAD 9.1 million for Q1 of the previous year, representing an 8.7% increase.

Focusing on our e-commerce solution which consists of Orckestra and k-eCommerce, the Q1 revenue grew by 16.3% to CAD 6.7 million compared to CAD 5.8 million for Q1 of the previous year. Revenues from the supply chain collaboration in Q1 were stable at CAD 3.2 million compared to CAD 3.3 million in fiscal 2021.

In Q1 of prior year, total revenues was more positively impacted by volume-based increases due to a spike in online commerce which started at the beginning of the pandemic and forced certain loss lines at the beginning, more specifically in e-grocery. With the confinement happening in certain countries during this period, we've seen – in the arrival of summer, we've seen a slower amount of transaction volumes on some platforms which we believe will be temporary over time.

Revenue from emarketplaces platform was CAD 3.8 million or 2.8% increase and compared to the 3.7% that we've reported in the same quarter of fiscal 2021. Recurring revenue for the quarter, it was CAD 16.4 million at 72.5% of total revenues compared to CAD 15.8 million and 77% of total revenues in the first quarter of the prior year. Recurring revenue for the quarter was 90% of total revenue for strategic sourcing and this is stable on a sequential basis and just down slightly from 94% of last year. Recurring revenue for Unified Commerce was 57% stable from 59% in the prior year.

Turning now to margins, operating expenses, and profitability. Q1 gross margin was 58.6% compared to 68% reported in Q1 of the prior year. As mentioned earlier, the change in gross margin is associated with service mix between right of use revenue and professional services and to the lower margin professional services revenue recognized on large deployments, especially in e-commerce. We anticipate that gross margins will remain compressed temporarily until the ongoing deployments in e-commerce are delivered. We believe that the foundational investments we are making now will contribute [ph] to future improvement in (00:24:57) gross margin.

Total operating expenses for Q1 were CAD 17.5 million compared to CAD 14.7 million in Q1 of the previous year. The key contributors to the increase are general admin expenses of about CAD 1 million during the quarter, sales and marketing of about CAD 1 million and increased costs due to the investments and scaling for head count and higher salary costs to attract and retain employees in a time of a scarce tech talent and higher professional services fee.

Net loss was CAD 4.3 million or CAD 0.15 per share basic and diluted compared to a net loss of CAD 1.2 million or CAD 0.08 basic and diluted in the previous Q1. Total adjusted EBITDA loss for the quarter was CAD 1.1 million compared to the adjusted EBITDA of CAD 2.1 million reported in Q1 of 2021. Adjusted EBITDA declined year-over-year due to increased foundational investments in operation sales and marketing, R&D and professional services to accelerate sales growth and to support large deployment contracts. As deployments accelerate over the coming quarters, professional service expenses are expected to remain elevated and the company expects to continue to make foundational investments to improve scalability as the corporation grows.

Tech talent remains a challenge and we have implemented multiple strategies to address this including market competitors, salary increases, which began in Q1 to improve retention. We have new recruiting campaigns, established a development center in Ukraine to provide additional workforce, and this is going well. Our operational and infrastructure investments are focused on improving scalability and improving gross margin.

As we move forward, our challenge will be to strike the right balance between the investments and their impact on margins while staying in the race to capitalize on the opportunity brought on by this market acceleration. We believe that the investments in people and foundational infrastructure will help to capture the opportunities presented to us by this accelerated market and especially around the adoption of commerce, e-commerce and strategic sourcing solutions and we can convert these opportunities into future cash flows that offer compelling value to shareholders. On June 30, the company had CAD 110 million in cash on its balance sheet with net cash inflows and now you know what we're going to do with that money.

And with that, I turn you back to Luc. [indiscernible]

(00:27:42). Thanks, Deborah. Just although I know all this, but listening to you I'm out of breath thinking about everything we did. And I'd like to emphasize that obviously our growth platforms are really e-commerce and strategic sourcing. So be careful when you look at the overall, we still have some businesses that are less growing. So, the average unfortunately is maybe not fully comparable to some of our peers. But when you look at what's really doing well, we're in the right spot.

So, to wrap up this presentation, I'd like to call your attention back to slide 18 which is titled Expecting Value Creation for All Stakeholders. I'd like to emphasize that this is a transformational acquisition. It's beneficial for our shareholders as well as for our broader stakeholders, namely our customers and employees. First, the strategic acquisition of Periscope creates significant value for shareholders now positioning mdf commerce as a leading e-Procurement player. We are extremely excited about this transaction and the opportunities that it creates for us. I'd like to thank all of the shareholders for your continued support.

Second, the acquisition broadens our product offering, allowing us to meet our customers evolving procurement needs. Thank you to all our customers and our partners for your continued trust. And I'd like to insist here that when we say that our mission is enabling the flow of commerce digitally, that's exactly what we're doing between B2B, B2G and certain customers through various retailer websites.

Third, this combination creates a new environment for all of our employees [ph] for thriving (00:29:35), providing them with new opportunities to develop and grow within a stronger organization. To the Periscope team, who'll be joining us, I want to extend a very warm welcome on behalf of the entire mdf commerce team. We look forward to welcoming you into the mdf commerce family. Your organization has had an amazing 20-year history and it shares our core values and drives for excellence. We recognize often where the Periscope head office is located, is a vibrant city where top tech talent and top universities are present, which will make us an even more attractive employer overall.

To our people, thank you for all that hard work over these many months and years. We all know with transactions of this nature that the real work is only beginning. Without you, these opportunities would not be possible. Together, we're building a leading, customer-focused platform in e-commerce and public procurement delivering on our vision to enable the flow of commerce for businesses and governments worldwide.

And with that, I'd like to hand over the call to the operator to open the line for questions. Thank you, all.

Thank you, Mr. Filiatreault. We will now open the line for questions. [Operator Instructions] Please stand by while we compile the Q&A roster. And your first question will come from Nick Agostino with Laurentian Bank Securities. Your line is open.

Yes. Good afternoon and congrats on the transformative deal. I guess, my first question is obviously some impressive growth that this acquisition is bringing when you look at 2020 versus 2021. So, Luc, can you maybe just talk about the history, maybe, give us a sense of the historical CAGR growth maybe a five-year growth rate? That'd be helpful.

Thanks for that question, Nick. I'm looking out here to Deborah, because I don't know that I have an answer for the five-year growth. What we do know is that – and I think we have a slide on that, is that on the H1 for this year, the growth was approximately 30%, 30-some-percent. And we anticipate that for the full year, the growth will approach 50% with existing state contracts, particularly on that transactional model that I described. We'll be looking for a little bit of an older growth CAGR. But I don't have that off the top of my head right now.

Okay. Yeah. When you have it, if you could either call it out or send me an e-mail, that would be great. Secondly, just trying to understand, obviously some revenue synergies, I think, you said CAD 15 million. And if I understood the multiple take 4.6 times, that includes the CAD 15 million synergy, just to clarify?

Yes, it does.

Yeah. Okay. So my question is, is there anything that – just to kind of wrap my head around the synergy gains, obviously, cross-selling, they are more larger focused, you are more smaller market focused. Is there anything off their platform that you can – that is – that you see as value add that you can turn around and offer to your clients and vice versa? In other words, anything that either party was doing that maybe offered a little bit of a competitive advantage or value proposition that you don't currently have?

Well, totally right. If you look at the slide on products, their ePro model, their marketplace for governments is something that we will turnaround immediately and start to offer to our current 3,500 governments and agencies, both in the US and in Canada. As we said, this is a first mover advantage and it's quite transformational for governments as it turns something that is a cost into a revenue generating. So, that's one aspect where we will – we are already thinking about where to go and how to market that piece of products.

Second, you've heard me say this when we did the Vendor Registry acquisition about six months ago or seven months ago. It now combines two supplier networks which will – in which there's about a million suppliers and about a half a million of those have been active in the last 12 months. That's an incredible large network of suppliers that cater to now 6,000 governments and agencies and that's going to continue to grow. And as I mentioned during the Vendor Registry, we're very good at turning these non-active customers into active customers that start to pay us a royalty to use the platform. And we're also very good at increasing the value that we bring to these suppliers, because we suddenly basically doubled the number of opportunities that they're exposed to and we think that that's going to continue to grow. And not only can they simply be exposed to simple basic RFPs, we can put them in the marketplace so they can transact with governments as easily as you buy anything on Amazon. So clearly there is an obvious amount of synergies in between and we've put it at CAD 15 million obviously to – because we're still in the first few phases of doing that. And as you know, we're announcing and sign the transaction today, but the close is expected in another few weeks.

So there's a limited amount of work that we can do on how will we put this together. But the teams are ready on both sides to really make this an extremely compelling digital procurement platform which we – the intent of not only taking to North America, but worldwide.

Okay. But is there any product feature sets that that they are bringing to the table that you currently don't have or vice versa?

Yes. The ePro, if you – we could take you – I don't know if you can flip through the slides that we showed. But I don't remember the number of it. But if you go to slides on product, everything about ePro and Marketplaces [indiscernible] (00:36:30) they have and we don't.

Okay.

On our case, we don't have technology that they don't have, because we were competitors on the basic and that would be on slide 13 right there. You see that strat sourcing, supplier relationship and contract lifecycle management is something we both have, but they bring requisition, purchase order management, invoice receipt processing, payment management, ePro and Marketplaces. So, we're buying both a set of products and platforms that we don't yet have plus a network of customers and revenue and profitability.

And then, this transaction takes us into the entire e-Procurement wheel, so that if we were to, illustrated in the wheel from everything from beginning to end the cash flows out, so it's really a full process.

Okay. Now, when I look at the multiple pay, the 4.6 times, as you know there was a transaction in Europe that was done at a similar level as well. And I'm just wondering was this particular transaction, was there any competition in getting this deal done?

Yes, totally. This was a – and unfortunately the Periscope is owned by a private equity [ph] named (00:37:58) Parthenon Capital. And hey, we have been in discussion with the company for quite some time. But they launched a very stringent competitive process to obviously we don't have the full details of who was there. But we certainly know or we can guess of certain parties. And you know based on how it was handled and the various discussions and the time that it took and everything else I don't know how many parties, but it was a significant number. This is a company that's highly sought after. And when you think about the bill, the US Senate that approved the Biden bill, this is extremely timely right now.

Okay. And my last... [indiscernible]

(00:38:50) transaction model, really based on government spend. So, as not only this e-Procurement is becoming trendy, governments are digitalizing, et cetera. We're at it also at a time where government infrastructure spend is going to drive up some of those volumes into areas where we will really see a strategic side of growth positive momentum. There is a strong pipeline and there is a lot of upside potential that we're not limited by just that [ph] past (00:39:26) revenue anymore, but rather transaction fees based on government spending. So, a really interesting model here.

Okay. And my last question, just maybe shifting gears to discuss all the – I think during the course of the pandemic in the UK, you guys called out a slowing of implementation, because of COVID. Now, we're clearly seeing UK is reopening the economy and what have you. How the implementation are you going to start to see that acceleration as far as getting into the targeted 1,000 stores? And any update on the timeline for getting that completed? [ph] I'll leave it there (00:40:12).

So ALDI is progressing well, Nick. We're now just below 300 stores. We keep adding a couple every week and certainly the client is very happy. The platform is – and we are deploying, albeit not at the speed at which we thought we would initially. And again, that's really based on a whole bunch of logistics issues on mostly on their front on the physical side. So, we are ready to deploy anytime they tell us to go ahead. So, we're fully active on the ALDI front and everything is going as planned. The volume is as Deborah mentioned of orders maybe reduced compared to the early days of the pandemic, right. Let's be honest. So, but we're still at a bit more than double and a half the volumes that we saw pre-pandemic and that's pretty much across the board in all of our various e-commerce properties. So, that's still going well. But there is something that I'd like to mention is that, we now are at the point where we have an incredible pipeline, a very large grocers worldwide that we have – we are engaged in active discussions, demonstrations, pricing, et cetera. And we think that we are really in a good position to capture some other very significant market share in that space.

So, as far as – things are going slower than we expected initially and I think that caught everybody by surprise, but the talent crunch did not help. We are now, I think, through that in e-commerce particularly, we hired about 50 people since the beginning of the year. The Kiev, the Kiev Ukraine Center seems to be working well. So, we are back to a pace of delivery that is, is what we need to have. But on the customers' side, they have the similar issues, right. They too are grasping for tech talent. And that seems to be on a worldwide scale right now. So, we're adjusting to that. But if you look at the growth rates that we're having in e-commerce, we're still in the 15% range which is quite good, because don't forget that we're comparing this quarter with the incredible spikes that we had same time last year in similar quarters, which were April, May and June, which was at the heart and the start of the pandemic where everything was locked down. So, we're very confident in our ability to continue to grow, capture market share and e-commerce and bring that to profitability when we get to the scale that we need to have.

Okay. Great. I'll pass the line. Thank you.

Your next question will come from Kevin Krishnaratne with Desjardins. Your line is open.

Hey. Hey there. Good afternoon. Congrats on a very intriguing acquisition. Just the first question, just on the revenue and the cost synergies, if you can just help us understand how to think about, how does that actually scale over the next three years? Is it more back-end loaded, front-end – how to – or is it linear? Any of the thoughts there?

Like we mentioned, there's a large amount of cross-selling. There is a large amount of demand in government digitizing their procurement systems. Hard to say at this point how fast this will come. We basically looked at our existing database of customers and tried to figure out how much time needs to happen for this to materialize. So, I think once we have the ability to fully get together with the target and develop the go-to-market – the combined go-to-market plans, et cetera, we'll probably be able to update you with something a bit more precise. At this point, it's hard to say.

On the cost synergies, that's a little bit easier and it's pretty early on because there are some functions that are, I'd say, specifically in the content creation and aggregation where Periscope has developed technologies and platforms which we can use and retire a certain platforms on other side. And one very, very quick win is, we were on our end and on their end, struggling to acquire additional resources which together now we have the ability to transfer resources and have people work on where the most it's urgent and needed. So we are saving significantly on potential new hires that would have needed to be done. So, that's how we came up with those numbers. And there are a multitude of other things that will show up also.

And [indiscernible] (00:45:38) perhaps on the shorter term basis, the Periscope marketplace solution is one that we'll be able to leverage with our existing customers. And really what that's allowing to happen is for agencies to shop off of existing supplier contracts. And so, this one essentially opens up an entire marketplace where the government goes to an fee process and now all of a sudden these state – the local agencies can be buying off of that government contract. And so, in addition to the transaction model which is based on government spend, this transaction model will add volume right away. And that is one where our existing 3,500 government agencies and the 300,000 active suppliers can be connected quite easily from a technology perspective on to that e-marketplaces model and that will – bringing on shorter term revenue.

Okay. Awesome, thanks for that's very, very helpful on those both questions there. [indiscernible] (00:46:44) my next question, if I think about looking here the CAD 23 million [ph] that Periscope that – you're (00:46:53) guiding sort of CAD 33 million. Just to clarify, how to think about the transaction revenue versus SaaS? How do we think about how that is evolved, that mix and obviously volume is driving the transaction? But just how do we think about the breakdown of that revenue?

Yeah. So, the 2023 revenue is, it's in US dollars in the slide we presented, sorry, US$20 million, US$23 million [indiscernible] (00:47:24) is the historical 2021 – sorry – mixing [indiscernible] (00:47:29). I'm starting over, spend a long few days, it's US$23 million that we're talking about in this slide is the historical December 2021 of Periscope. And looking at where we are at the June 30th period and contracts that have been signed and are committed, we believe quite strongly that the US$33 million that we're presenting there is a solid number while it is forward-looking and not guaranteed. It is we believe quite solid. The transaction fee model represents to Periscope approximately one-third of their revenue. That model is relatively new. It was introduced in 2019. So, it's ramping up with different US state clients being added to that model. So, there is upside potential growth with respect to that.

Okay. Got it. And so, but I guess, [ph] what you're (00:48:34) thinking about, you've got the – your thoughts on the guidance or the outlook for US$33 million. Is that mainly how do we think about that growth being driven from SaaS versus just pure volume? You did US$20 billion worth of volume. I think, I saw that in the press release. Is that the – that is really the main driver?

In terms of the...

...transaction [indiscernible] (00:48:59).

...yeah, in term of the growth, a lot of it does have to do with that transaction model. But they're also quite a bit of growth within the [ph] e-mark (00:49:10) as the marketplaces that I mentioned. So, it is also combined with existing – there is existing client increases, but it is a lot to do with the volume side on the marketplaces and of course, the increase in government spend.

And they have added also a significant number of customers on the government and agency side over the last you know since the beginning of the pandemic. So, there is also a significant amount of additional SaaS revenue, because not everybody has converted to the transactional model.

Yeah. Okay. Got. That's sort of what I've been looking for. The last sort of a bigger picture question, I'm looking at your slide 7 where you've got the North American sort of US government agency spend [ph] US$1.8 trillion (00:49:59), US$20 billion in spend. Can you talk about maybe the landscape or the competitive landscape. You also mention the increased government digitization. So, maybe just help us understand what the landscape looks like now? You obviously have first mover advantage as you've talked about with the B2G shopping experience that is provided. So any just thoughts on how you're thinking about the landscape competitively and the opportunity whether that's a legacy switching over to digital platforms like yourself?

So I'd say that from a competitive point of view, as we've often mentioned, it's a very highly fragmented market. You know with this transaction, we're clearly becoming the [ph] main guy (00:50:51) in that area. [ph] How does governments do it today (00:50:59), a lot a significant amount is still just paper-based, fax, e-mails and even snail mail. We see sometimes some departments that are still receiving proposals by mail and opening them up and binding them in binders and comparing them, et cetera. So simple I would say manually – manual processes are still very present. And we can easily completely replace those processes, because we offer a solution that does not cost anything to a government agency. And that's a big advantage, because a lot of them are budget constraints. And yes, there are buying and investing money in the economy and all sorts of that. But they don't have the ability to buy fancy pieces of software. The ones that do have or went on to various procurement platforms, it will typically adopt a commercial procurement platform. Think about Ariba, think about some modules in SAP for the bigger guys. But they don't have anything to handle the public procurement piece. They don't have the security, [ph] the auditability (00:52:14) of the processes. And we come in and we offer all that at no cost.

We actually have complete and full business cases that show them that they can actually start to make money right away, because all we do is, take a convenience fee out of the transaction from the winning party which gets shared between us and that government agency. And once the government agency is on the platform, we can easily convince smaller guys and I'm thinking like school, districts municipalities et cetera, that can then piggyback off of those government contracts. And then, [ph] two (00:52:55) can go and purchase whatever goods and services they need by using the pricing, the volume rebates that the whole state is benefiting from. So this creates a super compelling proposal. That is quite easy to settle, right? So I truly think that the upside here is very significant. I hope I'm answering your question.

No. That's helpful, Luc. Thanks very much. Thanks for taking my questions, very intriguing deal and good luck. I'll pass the line.

Thank you.

Your next question will come from Richard Tse with National Bank Financial.

Yes. Thank you. So congratulations team [indiscernible] (00:53:43) looks like a very long process. If you look at slide 14, I was wondering, maybe just quickly walk through the broad economics of the sort of the two models, the ePro SaaS and the ePro transaction. Just trying to understand like maybe sort of a, very sort of simplistic transaction just get the flow of what are the margins [indiscernible] (00:54:05) on each of those respective models?

Hey. So maybe I can just explain it briefly, but – so, what you see on the left is ePro size is what you would know is the typical subscription fee paid by the agency to customer based on size. So it's not you know various size of governments will pay a different amount of subscription fee in terms of revenue. On the ePro transaction model, the revenue recognition is really based on the government spend. So, as Luc explained a couple of minutes ago, percentage of the spend is what gets recognized. They're typically long-term contracts, in this case of large US states. So essentially, there's a lot of growth in the ePro transaction. So, when you are in the ePro side, you have to win new work, new size contracts, whereas in the ePro transaction model to spend with existing US customer base can increase quite significantly. From a margin perspective, we've never been a company that's provided guidance on margins. So, I mean, we knew we need to do some guidance especially around revenue, but we can tell you that we believe that our EBITDA margins as we showed on the first slide, will improve to combined companies, definitely brings on to improved margins. And so, we expect to see that increasing over time.

Okay. Thanks.

Richard, thanks for the question. And I know you and I talked often and I know you had some – you were looking forward for us to execute on a transaction and obviously every time we spoke, well, I could not tell you about this, but it was and has been in the work. So hopefully you understand why sometimes I was a bit vague and not directly answering.

No.

And perhaps, I guess, what you can see on the slide, we did present is that the historical margin has been around 8% from an EBITDA margin perspective for Periscope. And I think it's from there, that we think that significant opportunity is really on expanding the margins from there.

Yeah. No. I appreciate that. And thanks, Luc. In terms of slide 8, you show these are agency solutions. And I'm just kind of curious to see from a product set perspective what that mix is, sort of proportionately leaning towards one or the other and [indiscernible] (00:56:47) high level what the mix of revenue maybe?

So for sure the ePro solution is representing about one third of the revenue and then after that, I don't have a specific breakdown in front of me. But it would be some marketplace that's really driving the – probably the second largest payment revenue. And then, things like CLM, which is a contract management system, it's smaller in terms of revenue. And then, there's a few legacy platforms in there. And...

Okay. Okay. [indiscernible]

(00:57:34) nature of product. I think, certainly the growth areas are around the Periscope marketplace and the Periscope ePro, which is the transaction model that we referred to. And the rest are really providing all the services of the e-Procurement wheel.

Yeah. It's, I mean, it's similar to us, right. The various modules that they have are also supplier based. And a lot of suppliers pay small amounts to be on those networks, but once you get something that interests the large agencies to come on and offers them significant savings, well, obviously, you can get some pretty significant savings from that.

And I think that modular concept is what's really solid about the solution that Periscope has, because it allows the client to pick what they're ready for and to grow over time on their various modules that are very interconnected and that are very complementary to each other. So, you don't need to go full scope everything [indiscernible] (00:58:40) purchase a solution in modules or implemented if you're having a transaction while you're not paying for it.

Okay. Okay. And just a last one for me. If you sort of look at, let's say the immediate addressable market that you think you can pursue, like, what sort of the market share environment look like? You know what sort of your share and maybe what's the share of some of your, maybe the top two other competitors in the marketplace?

The easiest way to describe this at this point is we estimate approximately 100,000 agencies and governments across North America. We currently have about 6,000 of those on our networks. And we only have eight states on the Periscope platform. So, that gives you a view of how much room there is to grow there. Now, not obviously, we not all of those agencies are large enough to represent a big bump in revenue. If you look at it from the transactional piece of the revenue, right now, between us and Periscope, we probably are – and we don't have any transactional revenue, but I know how much we even sort of service. And that's probably around the [ph] $30 billion, $35 billion (01:00:09) out of – and North America is probably when you add the stimulus there, we're probably getting close to potentially [ph] $3 trillion (01:00:17). So we're at 1-ish-percent of market share and we are the leader in public e-Procurement. So, lots of room to grow. And again, insist on that first mover advantage. As far as we understand, we're the first company to be able to offer this type of transactional revenue with a revenue generating model for the actual government's body that's issuing those contracts.

Okay. That's great. However, congrats on pulling off this big deal.

Thank you.

And there are no further questions. I will now hand the call back to Mr. Filiatreault. Go ahead sir.

Guys, thank you very much for your insightful questions. I know it's been a long in the making and you know this started already a few months back and we did everything we could do to make it happen as fast as possible and my whole team is absolutely exhausted. I told I'm running them to the ground now. So, very happy to have you on the line. And I'm sure we'll talk some more in the next few days. As you know there is some financing going on. So I'll take – we'll take further calls with some of you as we go. So thank you very much for your attention.

Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect your lines. Thank you for participating and have a pleasant day.