raw transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2007 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Annie and I’ll be your coordinator for today.


[Operator Instructions] We will be conducting a question and answer session towards the end of


this conference. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host


for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please


proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Annie, and good morning, everybody. As Annie just said, I’m Marc Baumann, and I’m


your primary Investor Relations contact at Standard Parking. Welcome to our conference call for


the first quarter of 2007. I hope you’ve all had a chance to review our earnings announcement


which was released after the market closed last night. We expect to file our 10-Q tomorrow.


We’ll begin our call today as usual with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that we’ll


open up the call for a Q&A session. During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be


considered forward-looking regarding the company’s strategy, operations and financial


performance. Those statements are subject to many uncertainties in the company’s operations and


business environment. I refer you to the complete forward-looking statement disclosure in our first


quarter release, which is incorporated by reference for purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you


to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and annual filings with the SEC. Finally, before we


get started I want to mention that this call is being webcast live over the internet and can be


accessed on our website at standardparking.com and also at earnings.com. There’ll be a replay


available on either website for 30 days after the call. With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Marc, good morning, everyone, thanks for joining us. As we indicated in the release we


put out last night, we’ve gotten this fiscal year off to a great start. Pre-tax income per share


increased by 40%, 59 cents per share this quarter as compared to 42 cents per share last year.


Earnings per share were 35 cents this quarter as compared to 37 cents per share last year at this


time due to the higher tax -- income tax expense we had since reversing our valuation allowance in


late 2006. To that point, we have said that for the remainder of 2007 we’ll be focusing our


comparison on pre-tax income per share as to avoid an oranges to apples comparison.


The business threw up healthy free cash flow of 5.2 million during the first quarter this year as


compared with a negative 2.8 million last year. While normal fluctuations in the timing of payments


and accruals can cause working capital to move around somewhat, and Marc generally discusses


that with you each quarter, we are on track to generate between 20 and 25 million -- 20 to 25


million -- in free cash flow this year after a planned increase in CapEx or capital expenditures to 6


million this year from 2 million last year. On a same-location basis, revenue increased by 8%,


however due to the conversion of several lease contracts to management agreements, and we


talked about the business structure in each of those of each of those agreements a lot in the past,


reported revenue was down slightly. Our total location count dropped slightly as well to 1,962 from


1,978 at the end of 2006.


While we added several terrific new locations which I’ll discuss a little later, we did experience


some turnover in one large West coast [indiscernible] portfolio, as well as our previously announced


transition from the Chicago park district facilities, which were sold to private equity investors late
raw transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


last fall. Correspondingly, our retention rates up slightly to 90%, but we still expect to end 2007 with


retention at or higher than the 92% we achieved in 2006.


Our continuing emphasis in the hospital and university markets is reflected in new contract awards


during the first quarter of this year. Some new adds in that area include Lutheran General Hospital


here in suburban Chicago where we’ll manage the parking and shuttle operations at the hospital


campus which consists of 3 garages and 10 surface lots totaling over 3,800 spaces. This award


expands our relationship with Advocate Healthcare, recognized as one of the nation’s top 10 health


systems. We managed the parking at several other Advocate system hospitals including Illinois


Masonic in Chicago, Christ Medical Center in Oaklawn and Good Shepherd hospital in Barrington,


Illinois. Strictly Pediatrics is a brand new medical center complex in Austin, Texas that will house a


variety of pediatric specialty groups. We were awarded the contract to manage its 1,000-space


parking facility. In Houston, Texas Methodist Hospital Willowbrook expanded our existing parking


management contract to include shuttle services.


We are pleased to announce that we are now managing parking operations at the University of


Maryland’s Baltimore campus. This large campus -- large university campus consists of 7 garages


with approximately 6,700 spaces that are also used for parking during Baltimore Ravens and


Baltimore Orioles football and baseball games respectively. Finally, New Jersey Transit awarded us


another of its Park and Ride facilities, this one in Hoboken, New Jersey. We also operate the


parking at Ramsey Route 17 and Montclair State University rail stations for the same entity.


At the Bradley Hartford airport, seasonal fluctuations resulted in our having to make $300,000 in net


deficiency payments to the state in the first quarter of this year as compared to $200,000 in net


deficiency payments a year ago. For all of 2007, however, we expect to receive net repayments.


I’ve talked on this call and in other places in the past about the seasonality to the Bradley Hartford


deal, it’s the lowest quarter in a fiscal period or on a calendar period for employment, coupled with


the usual high cost of winter, snow removal and salting and the like.


In summary, we had a great quarter but it’s a little too early to revise guidance for the year, so we’re


maintaining our current earnings guidance of $1.40 to $1.50 per share, and pre-tax income per


share of $2.30 to $2.50 which represents an increase of 13 to 23% over 2006. I’ve already talked


about free cash flow being in line with achieving 20 to 25 million for 2007. On another note, our


board has authorized the spending of up to $20 million for stock buybacks, of which we completed


transactions totaling 3.4 million during the first quarter of this year, plus an additional $1.6 million in


April, so meaning 5 million so far this calendar year.


We are actively pursuing several acquisitions which complement our existing business. We have


not completed these transactions as of yet but we will -- as we close them, we will fill you in on


some of the details. With that, I’ll turn the call over to Marc so that he can lead you to a more


detailed discussion of our finances.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Now that Jim’s given you an overview of the quarter, here’s a few more details. Total revenue for


the first quarter, excluding reimbursement of management contract expenses, decreased $200,000


to 63.4 million from 63.6 million last year, however as Jim mentioned same-location revenue


increased by 8%. The conversion of several leases to management contracts resulted in the


decrease in lease revenue, year-over-year, as Jim mentioned. And just to give you a little more


detail in case you are unfamiliar with how we report things, for parking revenues at leased facilities,


those are reported as our revenue, whereas at facilities under management contracts our fee is


considered revenue, so it would make a big difference on the revenue line.