corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2010 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shannon and I will be your operator for today.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to you host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Shannon, and good morning, everybody. As Shannon just said, I’m Marc Baumann. I’m


the Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact.


Welcome to the conference call for the fourth quarter of 2010. I hope all of you had a chance to


review our earnings announcement, which was released last evening.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. During the call, Jim will


provide guidance for 2011, and after that we’ll open up the call for our Q&A session.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking, regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website at standarparking.com. A reply will be available on


the website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Marc. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning. We’re very, very


pleased with the results we’ve able to deliver in 2010 that we reported last night with double-digit


growth on gross profit, operating income and net income.


In terms of some of our key metrics, location operating profit retention remained strong at 96% and


location retention rebounded nicely to 91% at the end of last year. We saw solid year-over-year


gross profit growth at same locations across most of our vertical markets.


Gross profit from same locations in the fourth quarter of 2010 increased 10% over the prior year. As


expected the full year increasing gross profit from same locations was much lower, as more of 2010


was impacted by the economic downturn of 2009, for then 2009.


Paid exits exhibited similar trends as paid exists at same leased locations, though up only modestly


on the full year showed a 9% fourth quarter year-over-year increase, hopefully, reflecting a


continuing favorable trend forward.


We announced late last year that we had completed the acquisition of a regional parking operator


based in Philadelphia that operator was formally branded and operated under the name Expert
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Parking. We saw Philadelphia as a geography that we hadn’t penetrated and a potential growth


core market for us. Given the fact that we’ve had significant opportunity and growth in the New York


City, New Jersey market, we felt that Philadelphia was an opportunity market for us as well.


We had a press release that we put out, I think in the third or fourth quarter of last year announcing


Charles Huntzinger joining the organization with a specific focus on join – on growing our share in


Philadelphia, New Jersey corridor.


The acquisition of Expert Parking and the retention of Expert’s former owner, in terms of an


ongoing relationship via an earn-out opportunity over the next several years, all bodes well for us in


a market that we think we can continue to bring our broadening tool kit of products across


particularly in the municipal and institutional market that you’ve heard me talk about over the last


year or so.


Another relatively recent acquisition, Gameday Management Group has also had some nice


successes. We’ve won multi-year contract renewals to provide event transportation and travel


demand management services for the upcoming Superbowl and Superbowls in future years, the


NCAA Capital One and Champs Sports Bowl and NASCAR’s Daytona 500 and Coke Zero races.


Also the outstanding service provided by our SP Plus Gameday division during the Dalai Lama’s


visit to Emory University contributed to the university awarding us the contract to manage visitor


parking and customer services as well as enforcement services for the university’s 13,000 parking


spaces.


Looking forward to 2011, we realized that many of our clients and customers continue to face


economic challenges, while certain signs are promising as I spoke to a little while ago, much


certainty remains in our market and I think you’ll find as we talked about guidance that was given


that I don’t feel our organization was overly aggressive. In some cases, I felt we were somewhat


conservative in looking at next year on a move forward basis.


While the fourth quarter enabled some upswings in some of the travel related business that we’ve


seen particularly at some of our airports and our airport reverse management contracts and leases,


those things contributed nicely.


However, in sort of tempering that optimism and trying to keep a crystal ball in front of us with this


uncertainty that I’m talking about. We haven’t seen a significant improvement yet in the commercial


side of our businesses. Office building vacancies remain at relatively high rates. Retail shopping


centers are not seeing a rebound in visits to those centers based on our paid exit and demographic


data. So, we’re somewhat cautious in putting together a view towards 2011 based on wanting to


see maybe the first quarter or two of activity aligned against the first two quarters of 2009.


Also, as I talked about several times last year, our gross profit and our management fees at our


contracts are generally and conceptually based upon revenue thresholds that our client facilities are


generating and our band of percentage in terms of management fees based on that revenue. Our


management fees tend to trend a year or so after the impact of recession.


So, in 2009, as we were re-trading those accounts that came up for bid, we saw our fees trailing


against the revenues at those facilities that has been experienced over the past year, and we


expect some run over of that into this year. As the economic situation continues to improve,


certainly our performance at our leases, our reversed management contracts, and those


management contracts that we will be re-trading this year and those into the future will be reflective


of an upswing in the economy.


So, I want to make sure we spend a little time on that in terms of the actual impact of the economy


on how we’re doing. All of that activity that re-trading that I’ve talked about has been mitigated last