Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vance Cushman Johnston — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive VP, SP Plus Corp.
James A. Wilhelm — Chief Executive Officer, SP Plus Corp.
G. Marc Baumann — President and Chief Operating Officer, SP Plus Corp.
Daniel Moore — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Nate J. Brochmann — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Gold — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the SP Plus First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to Vance Johnston, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you, Karen, and good morning, everybody. As Karen just said, I'm Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer at SP Plus. Welcome to the conference call for the first quarter of 2013. I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings announcement that was released last evening.

We'll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our Chief Executive Officer, then Marc Baumann, our President and Chief Operating Officer will provide more color on the operations and then, I'll discuss some of the financials in a little bit more detail. After that, we'll open up the call up for a Q&A session.

During the call, we'll make some remarks that will be considered forward-looking statements, including statements as to our 2014 financial guidance, statements regarding expectations for the integration of the Central Parking operations and other statements regarding the company's strategies, plans, intentions, future operations and expected financial performance.

Actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties or other factors, including those described in our earnings release issued yesterday, which is incorporated by reference for purpose of this call and is available on our website at www.spplus.com. I would also like to refer you to the risk factor disclosures made in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the Internet and that a replay of the call will be available for 30 days from now.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jim.

Thanks, Vance, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our call and a special welcome to Vance as he joins us on this call for the first time. As a reminder, Vance joined us about two months ago as Chief Financial Officer with Marc assuming the President and Chief Operating Officer role. The breadth and depth of Vance's previous experience make him a wonderful fit for our CFO role.

Turning to the matter at hand, I'd like to talk today about the company's performance during a quarter that saw some of the coldest, snowiest and iciest weather in recent memory. The impact of these challenging weather conditions on our first quarter financial results were significant. As you've probably heard from other Companies, when such extreme adverse weather hits, people stop driving and air travel comes to a virtual halt. That means that parking activity and therefore, revenue at parking facilities decline.

We operate the majority of our locations under a fixed fee management contract structure. Therefore, decreases in parking volume and the resulting revenue decline won't affect us at these locations. We earn our management fee regardless of the number of cars parked. Even though there could be some impact on incentive fees and some of our management contracts are tied to volumes, by and large, our management contracts shield us from downturns in parking volume. However, with the Central Parking merger, our portfolio of locations multiplied and with leased locations, adverse weather conditions directly impact us and result in reduced parking revenue and increased cost.

Results are somewhat mitigated this quarter by the fact that we also provide snow removal services and naturally foresaw – and saw a favorable impact on this business given the consistent and excessive snowfall across a large section of the country. Though it wasn't enough to offset the extreme weather's adverse financial impact on our leased location, it's a good example of the value of our diverse set of service offerings.

In any event, as a result of the weather, we definitely experienced a challenging start to the year. However, once the severe weather abated somewhat in March, we saw the business return towards normal and outperform in line with our expectations. This gives us confidence that the core business remains on track and that our results in January and February were primarily impacted by the relentless inclement weather. Marc and Vance will provide additional commentary on the impact of the weather later in the call.

Supporting our view that our core business remains strong is that we estimate same location gross profit of the combined operations of both Central and Standard, after removing the adverse impact of the weather, and the impact for lease accounting, increased 3% year-over-year as well as the increase in our location retention rate excluding the impact of divestitures to 88% for the 12 months ended March of 2014, as compared to 87% for the 12 months ended December 2013.

On the integration front, the process continues to move along on schedule. We completed the integration of one of the largest states, Texas, in April, and another large volume state, California, is on track to be completed by the end of the second quarter. The process becomes smoother with each group as we learn and gain experience and we remain on track to complete the consolidation of Central and Standard locations onto one operating platform by the end of the year as planned.

With that, I will turn the call over to Marc so he can provide some additional color on the business.

Thanks, Jim, and good morning everyone. And my own welcome to Vance to joining our team here and it's been a great addition for us. Jim mentioned that the bad weather during the first quarter impacted our business. As you can imagine, it's very difficult to measure what didn't happen, but our best estimate as to the amount of revenue lost during the most severe weather conditions in January and February was approximately $1.6 million at same location leases, again, considering the combined operations of Central and Standard. Additionally, we estimate that we incurred $900,000 of incremental snow removal cost compared to last year at those leased locations.

On the positive side, as Jim mentioned, our SP Plus facility maintenance service line is in the snow removal business and we estimate that it generated $400,000 more profit from snow removal services during this time than the comparable period last year. The third impact of weather-related items is less direct. When there is snow and ice, there are more slip and falls and on-the-job injuries.

Going over our claims data, we estimate that casualty insurance losses attributable to winter weather impacted the first quarter of 2014 result by about $500,000 more than the previous winter's weather affected first quarter 2013 results. So all-told, we estimate the net impact of the winter weather on first quarter results was approximately $2.6 million or $0.07 per share.

Turning to our new business, we identified a number of these in our release last night. We had a very good beginning to the year and it's particularly showing our focus on growing our airport, municipal institutional sectors. Some of the highlights that I'll touch on are the new awards at Jacksonville and Charlotte Douglas International Airport, which brings us to about 80 airports in our portfolio, an all-time record as we build on the strength of our dedicated airport team.

On municipal side, we were awarded contracts by Broward County, Florida and the Town of Carolina Beach in North Carolina. Again, our dedicated SP Plus municipal services team is focusing on this sector as a growth opportunity for the company.

In healthcare arena, another focal point for us, SP+ Healthcare Services received a multi-year contract from Mount Sinai Health System to manage six parking facilities and three valet operations at medical campuses in Manhattan and Brooklyn, and that represents an expansion that we've ridden along as they have done acquisitions to expand their base of healthcare operations. We've gone along with them to expand our operations and our support for that client.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Vance to lead you through a detailed discussion of our financial performance for the first quarter of 2014.

Thanks, Marc. As both Jim and Marc mentioned, the inclement weather had a significant impact on our first quarter results. Wherever possible, I'll try to separate out the weather impact, also affecting the year-over-year comparisons are the impact of the 2013 sale of the long-term contract right, as well as changes in the net accretion [audio gap] (08:29) the amortization of accretion from acquired lease contract rights, as to the characteristic of each acquired lease and its corresponding lease term.

Barring an early termination of the lease, the pattern of the amortization of any given lease contract right is fixed and was determined at the time the merger accounting was finalized. However, in aggregate, the amortization pattern is irregular and could good result in meaningful swings over time. Therefore, we'll also separate out the impact of asset sales, as well as this net accretion on acquired lease contract rights when we comment on the year-over-year performance to get a more normalized basis.

Finally, in the first quarter of 2014, we reversed a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets that resulted in a discrete tax benefit of $6.4 million or $0.28 per share. We will exclude this tax benefit from the year-over-year comparison as well.

Going to the results for the quarter, reported 2014 first quarter gross profit decreased 12% over the same period of last year. On a normalized basis, in other words, excluding the impact of the winter weather, sale of a long-term contract right and the net accretion on acquired lease contract rights, overall gross profit grew 4%.

The reported results for the first quarter of 2013 includes the sale of a long-term contract right of $2.7 million that did not reoccur in 2014. Also, the benefit from net accretion on acquired lease contract rights was only $800,000 in the first year's quarter as compared to $1.9 million in last year's first quarter. And finally, you have the negative impact of the weather on 2014 results totaling $2.6 million.

First quarter 2014 G&A expenses including merger and integration-related costs, increased $800,000 or 3% from the first quarter of 2013. As we mentioned on the Q4 2013 call, a couple of months ago, we expected G&A to increase in 2014, as a result of higher-than-expected turnover at the support offices in 2013. Some of these positions need to be refilled in order to keep the integration on schedule.

Other factors contributing to the increase were fluctuations in the estimate for future earn-out obligations, as well as changes in compensation and benefit costs, including increased healthcare enrollment and increased healthcare costs.

We continue to remain focused on completing the integration of the two businesses and realizing the expected synergy savings. Upon the completion of the integration to one platform, we will then refocus our efforts on refining our systems and business processes to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.

Earnings per share on a GAAP basis were $0.19 for the quarter of 2014 as compared to a net loss of $0.01 per share for the first quarter of 2013. Earnings per share adjusted for merger and integration-related expenses, as well as a reversal of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, was a loss of $0.05 per share for the first quarter of 2014, a $0.15 decrease as compared with the first quarter of 2013 on the same adjusted basis.

The non-occurrence of the net benefit from the 2013 sale of the long-term contract right, which was $0.07, a decrease in the benefit from the net accretion on acquired lease contract rights of $0.03, and the estimated impact of weather of $0.07, more than explains the year-over-year decrease.

In terms of free cash flow, it was negative $13.9 million during the first quarter of 2014 due primarily to temporary increases in past due balances at quarter-end from some of our large airport clients. As we reported over the last several quarters, there can be large fluctuations in AR from time-to-time, but we expect these balances to return to normal levels as we move in 2014.

While the first two months were disappointing, March gave us comfort that the underlying business is performing. Given what we know at this time and due to the estimated $0.07 impact of weather, we expect adjusted earnings per share to be at the lower end of our previously announced guidance range of $0.77 per share to $0.87 per share.

In our adjusted results, we are adjusting not only for merger and integration-related costs, but also the benefit from the Q1 2014 reversal of the valuation allowance for deferred tax asset, as well as for any structural repair and maintenance cost we may incur related to legacy Central Parking leased properties, the amount of which is not currently estimateable.

All of these items were excluded in our initial guidance. The company currently still expects 2014 free cash flow to be in the range of $35 million to $40 million, excluding any structural repair and maintenance costs at legacy Central Parking leased locations.

That concludes our formal comments. I'll turn the call back over to Karen to begin the Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Moore from CJS Securities.

Good morning. Thanks for taking the question.

Hi, Dan.

Total number of facilities, you mentioned obviously, that your retention rate improved, total number of facilities declined 5% year-over-year. Talk about whether you expect further declines going forward as you divest lower profitability contracts or should we start to see growth as we move into the back half of the year?

Well, just overview is that we normally do expect to see growth in our location count. Last quarter, when we talked about our results, we did talk about the fact that we had lost a large portfolio of fairly low margin business that represented a large number of locations and clearly that needs to work itself through our location counts in our [audio gap] (14:37 – 14:44) we're reporting to you, but I think as we [indiscernible] (14:44) some leases that don't make money and if we can move away from those, we will do so. But our expectation is that we will be growing our location count.

Okay. Excluding weather and you gave us a lot of detail, how did the quarter fair relative to your internal expectations? Were there any other deltas versus your internal budget?

I think we came in pretty close to our original expectations when you take the weather out. One thing that we didn't point out on the call, in the comments that we gave is – prepared comments, is that in the month of March, when you exclude the weather impact – the weather really didn't impact [indiscernible] (15:22) results but the underlying performance that we had in March was well up on last year and certainly ahead of our expectations for the month. And I think that's really what gave us confidence to isolate weather and to think about the rest of the year in line with our original expectations.

Okay.

Just to reiterate a little bit Dan, as we kind of pointed out earlier, if you think about operating income for the month of March as Marc alluded to, on a normalized basis comparing kind of March of 2013, it was about $1.2 million better than March of 2013. So that gives us some confidence that the underlying business on a normalized basis is back and when we got to March, it was performing back on track.

Okay. And one more and I'll jump back in the queue. G&A, obviously you said, you expect it to increase, still a little bit higher than we'd expected. The $24.5 million or there about is a good run rate. And maybe can you isolate the impacts of increased in the estimate of future earn-outs, how much that impacted the quarter year-over-year and whether that will continue for the remainder of the year?

You know, Dan, you broke up a little bit, but I think I got [audio gap] (16:44 – 16:55) describe that is that, I think that – we think that twenty [indiscernible] (16:58) a quarter is a fairly good indication of the run rate for G&A going forward for 2014 with the exception that as we kind of move through the year, we are going to be focused on cost reduction opportunities. We think those will be somewhat limited in 2014. And then, as we talked about on our last call, when we get into 2015, we think – that's where we think that there's going to be some more significant opportunities as we get into kind of re-engineering certain processes and dealing with certain opportunities on the system side of the business, where more G&A – there is an opportunity to reduce more G&A once we get into 2015.

I think that was the first part of your question. I think the second part is, you started to break up a little bit, but I think it was around the breakout of earn-outs and that's not something we would typically give that level of detail. Having said that, it's not a tremendously significant item per se, but it can fluctuate from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter based on how those underlining – how those businesses are performing and we took a – we had a little bit more of an impact in the first quarter of 2014 versus the first quarter of 2013, because those businesses performed better quarter-on-quarter and then the earn-outs that go out with those, obviously, there's a bigger obligation.

Okay. I'll jump back in queue. Thank you.

Maybe – and thanks for the question Daniel. But it might be a good opportunity with the question focused on G&A to talk a little bit – with a little more specificity for color.

When we gave the original estimates of synergies to be attributable to the combination of Standard and Central Parking, those synergy estimates were based upon the completion of the integration where we're six months to seven months away now from being completed, and as I've said, we're on schedule and on budget for the achievement of those benefits.

Those benefits though, when we gave out our guidance, did not assume additional efficiencies that the companies could gain once we were on to one platform. It's important to recognize that the platform that we will have combined the companies on, is primarily the platform that Standard Parking had in a pre-merger environment. And we will, for ease of reporting, and head count and office space et cetera, et cetera, we will have achieved the benefit that we thought and announced for in bringing Central Parking locations on to that platform.

Central Parking had a couple of pieces of software products that we've adapted for the use on our platform, which is helpful and is allowing us to realize some of the benefit that we've had. However, as we move into 2015 and we get into a more normalized back office process, if you will, on the legacy Standard Parking system, those of you that have been with us for a while, remember that as we were in the early part of – or later part of this sort of decade in the 2008, 2009 and then into the pre-merger environment, that we had been making significant investments in technology to support our back office process.

And that had – we had accounted for time and attendance in doing that more efficiently now, for at the time for 13,000 employees and a benefit for ultimately 24,000 employees, and it's certainly scalable. So if the company has 100,000 employees, we achieve the same benefits on time and attendance. As you might suspect, that has increased the benefit that we derive and the efficiency in the back office just relating to processing payroll, and the number of people that we need to manually support that.

We had made progress in terms of automated bank reconciliation, the automated [audio gap] (21:11 – 21:34) together in continuing that technology investment. For instance, our contract management system and our general ledger system have not yet been the beneficiary of technologies that we know to exist to streamline the amount of manual entries and manual participation in our month-end closing process for 4,400 or 4,500 locations.

So, upon the re-creation of bandwidth within the organization to focus on the next step of process change, we think that there are additional synergies for us to derive, getting us down into the targeted percentage and lower of G&A as a percentage of growth profit by virtue of making those process enhancements and making those investments in technology.

Okay. Thanks for the color. Again, I'll jump back in queue.

Thanks, Dan.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research.

Good morning.

Hi.

So I believe you said that March was actually outperformed your expectations and, Jim, I think you talked about last call that in the past you've seen that delayed airport trips and delayed hotel visits, sometimes you'd get some of that back on an annual basis.

So I'm just wondering if there is anything you're seeing in your numbers that is saying that that's actually what's happening and that's kind of what's leading to the better March and your comfort in the full-year number?

We will see as we look at the second quarter, but where that pent-up demand occurs is primarily in the travel area, were their business trips or vacation trips that were canceled as a result of the weather conditions? And as we said, March was a little bit ahead of our expectation. So there would be some pent-up demand in that area. However, Kevin on the urban side, the people who go to work every day, the people who are parking at the hospitals or the universities or the office buildings, or people that had intended on a shopping trip into one of the central business districts, the regular commuter, there's certainly no pent-up demand that we would see up and above that.

I would attribute some of the pick up in March to some of the pent-up demand that might have existed in the travel industry, but we won't see a lot of what happened in January and February come back throughout the year and I don't want to send that message because it would be inaccurate.

Okay. That's fair. And thanks for giving good insight on the impact of the sale of contract rights and also the net accretion of acquired contract rights. I am just wondering, as we move into the second, third quarters, if you have any level of specificity as to how those items impacted the year-ago numbers and so for modeling purposes, we can think about what the benefit was in the year-ago quarter? I think you called out nicely in the fourth quarter release what the impact was there.

Yeah. We don't have a breakout Kevin on a quarterly basis, but we did, I think, lay out last quarter what we thought the annual impact would be on 2014, you can now see the impact on the first quarter of 2014 that we just disclosed. It's not something that's terribly volatile, the important thing to note is that the decrease that we are experiencing in 2014 relative to 2013 is a one-time decrease. [audio gap] (25:41 – 25:47) expectation as we said on a year-on-year basis as we go to 2015, 2016 and beyond. We are on this one-year period and we will continue to call it out for you on the quarters as it happens, but I think it tends to be an item that is fairly smooth throughout the year and I think for modeling purposes, you won't go too far off by using that as a broad assumption.

Okay, okay. Yeah, that's fair. You called out some higher healthcare costs in the G&A. You think that's just normal fluctuation or are you seeing anything related to the federal reform legislation in terms of higher enrollments, you think?

Yes. Kevin. And I am sorry to step over you as you are finishing your question. We had the same experience that many, many companies have had with as we deal with the impacts of the Affordable Care Act. We for sure saw an increase in enrollment take place this year and of course as talking to our peers and other companies, we have seen they'd had the same experience.

One of the things that remains to be seen is whether those people remain enrolled. It is a gigantic expense even an affordable policy for someone who is an hourly worker and so whether they will continue to participate in the program, we don't know.

I think the important thing to recognize is that outside of G&A, the bulk of the costs are obviously being passed on to our management clients, because we have a pass-through to them on management clients, and that's 80% of our portfolio, but it's an area that we will continue to watch. But I think that uptick that we talked about in the quarter was definitely the result of increased enrollment beyond what we would have expected to see.

Okay.

And we will certainly monitor it as the year goes by and our – I don't think we are sitting here today, now, expecting a further surge to create further increases in future quarters, because there is an annual enrollment process on a calendar year basis and so we [audio gap] (27:52 – 28:14).

Yeah. Really one last question, if I might, so just this bigger picture, the three elements of gross profit growth, if you can just give us an update on how those are tracking in terms of pricing new business and also cross-selling your additional services to clients.

Yeah, thanks Kevin. We don't carve out with a whole lot of specificity, those components, but I can tell you that based on the results that we've seen so far, again, the metrics that I talked about last quarter and those that I look at, we are most encouraged by. In the normalized environment that Vance was describing and our look into March, we saw an increase of same-store sales. So again, the three components that make up organic growth in gross profit are same-store sales achieved at somewhat of a level near inflation or higher and we saw that by virtue of the carved out activities in the first quarter. So that was – and that's an uptick that we hadn't being seeing lately.

The company has rolled out and has made available to some of our larger clients, a new pricing model via contract negotiation that begins to give us much more visibility into that activity in the future based on a change in approach on our management fees, a change in our approach to managing their personnel healthcare costs, payroll taxes, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, which give us even further guarantees year-over-year that if we do our job and then we raise revenue for the locations we manage on their behalf, that we're able to benefit along with them and for nine out of every 10 years historically, revenues move ahead. So it's not with great – it's not a gamble for us to do that and client seemed to be taking to that approach as we renew and it gives us some comfort that as we bring that pricing model across the breadth of our year renewal [audio gap] (30:36 – 31:14) RFP's and it's all coming in unsolicited and we're winning locations of considerable magnitude.

When Marc talked about airports, airports are a significant contributor when it comes to gross profit for location, not only from the parking product that might be provided initially, but from our transportation product line, and on a much more robust basis now and into the future, our technology line and our Click and Park [audio gap] (31:42 – 31:49) other successes. So we're seeing a rather robust pipeline in those areas and having success. The fact that the retention rate which speaks to loss location is now stabilized and beginning to tick upwards, completes the other half of that component of gross profit contribution.

A move up from 87% to 88%, well, 1% is in my mind, indicative of the trend that we believe based on our crystal ball into retrading and expiring contracts for where the company ought to be. Again, we've always targeted a rate over 90% as achievable given the quality of the products that we offer to our clients, and culling out locations that may not be contributing. So again, we would look for gross profit per location as we endeavor in the future to increase as well.

Maybe just to skip back on airports and I don't mean to go all over the place on you, Kev, but there is relevance here. When we talk about the amount of AR, and the amount of accounts receivable that have ticked up since the merger, Marc spoke specifically to those municipal and particularly those airport contracts that, because government never pays on time, they just don't. They are not very well organized, they generally require a dozen gray desks before you get the final gray desk to stamp approval on payment. And while we worked with our client to stream [audio gap] (33:23 – 33:50) for contract and then we performed the capital as an exercise against the performance of that contract.

So, no, and you know from our historic dispatch of cash and our rather high threshold for the return on invested cash that we are considering that. As the company gets larger, we don't expect receivables to tick up and we expect to go out and work with our airport clients to become more efficient in the payment process.

Skipping back to the major components, there is a third component of gross profit generation is beginning to sell more products across a wider number of locations. And one of the three or four key reasons why I bought Central Parking was to be able in the future to sell these additional products, transportation, curb-side management at airports and Central brought a rather large portfolio of airports with it, security opportunities at airports and maintenance opportunities at airports.

The pipeline of opportunity for us to do cross sale of those, coupled with our ability to deploy the technology that I referred to earlier, which is our Click and Park technology for advanced reservations and in the future on-demand payment for members of a Standard Parking associated system, will ultimately inure the benefit of that cross-selling. So whether it is the government contracts that I am talking about or the componentry of selling some of the additional products across the wide array of the markets we serve, we are definitely seeing in our pipeline opportunity an uptick in that cross-selling, just getting the acquired operating team together and focused on the breadth of the products we have to sell, and the breadth of the markets that we can now penetrate are just beginning to bear fruit.

And our share of cross-selling those products into existing locations, no less third-party opportunities where we don't even have contracts, is still in its infancy. So, it is unfortunate that we had a lot of cold weather and we had a lot of snow in January and February. I don't want to oversimplify that, nobody is happy about the results in January and February, but if the results weren't normalized, and if didn't know what I know about our ability to generate organic gross profit growth along the three methods that I've mentioned, as well as our significant ability to leverage our new size across an array of products given that some of the technology that I've talked about this morning or given the real estate that we manage on a much more expanded basis and our ability to leverage that real estate to do other things, certainly, January and February were a distraction to us.

But all-in-all, given the opportunity that we have, and now getting clarity added to some of the long-term leverageable products that we haven't spoken about, that you will see us make some announcements about, I hope, the rest of the spring and into the summer, it's again a pretty encouraging business model to be around at the moment.

All right, great. Well, thanks for all the color as usual.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Nate Brochmann from William Blair.

Good morning there, everyone. Congratulations there Vance on being part of the team.

Thank you.

Hey, just a couple of things. So this might be a little nitty-gritty and if you don't want to quite go that far, I understand, but with all these puts and takes during the quarter with weather as you just alluded to, Jim, totally understand that, it is what it is, but is the right way to think about maybe normalized gross profit in terms just going forward as a base number, is somewhere around that 39%, 40% range?

Is that kind of where we should be thinking about going forward because clearly with the guidance suggests that we have pretty good follow-through for the rest year, but just want to make sure that we're thinking about where the core number is right about now to kind of base the future assumptions off of.

It's a good question, Nate. But I think the way to think about it is that when you take a look at our business model and I'm talking about organic now because as we get into Phase II and Phase III of integrating the two companies together and a full rollout of the SP Plus business model and product line, from a strictly organic basis, in a normalized environment, our business model allows year-over-year growth.

Take out the fair market value of leases, take out [ph] assets (38:57) and all the stuff that Marc and Vance are carving out on a year-over-year basis, once we're able to reach stabilized ground as of January of 2015, and we're on a platform that can only be improved from an SG&A perspective, gross profit should grow year-over-year anywhere between 5% and 7% comprised of the base three modules that I just rolled out in Kevin's question.

So if you're thinking about how to think about gross profit [audio gap] (39:29 – 40:03) in the future. And so what I'm saying is that, you might have stayed alone, achievement of that 5% to 7% growth might have been taxed by virtue of the inventory that we have to sell some of the new products in.

So by gathering size and scalability, we're able to reconfirm and look [audio gap] (40:19 – 40:25) into the somewhere by 5% and 7%. Our SG&A in a normalized environment should only grow by the raises we give and the number of offices that – the square feet that we lease for our offices. And that's generally under our management space somewhere in the neighborhood of inflation or maybe slightly a tick above inflation because we like to reward our people, but not significantly.

Fluctuations then in our SG&A are caused by how efficiently we process the information that's generated by the gross profit of the business, and again, without regurgitating it, there is still rather a significant opportunity for this company to invest in that process enhancement following the stabilization of the workforce upon the completion of the Standard Parking or the Central Parking integration.

So again, sorry for the speech but this is – the quarter gives me the opportunity of provide a little more depth than we normally do.

No, I mean I think that makes sense and I appreciate that. I mean, just to summarize, I mean, at the end of the day, we have one more year here with some issues in terms of the puts and takes on some of the previous accounting things, in terms of the year-over-year comp. But going forward, we should be a lot cleaner hopefully and then particularly going into next year, we don't have that comp, so we can see the true benefit of this combined model along with the synergies that we'll still get from combining the IT platforms. So I think that's encouraging.

Well, that's the key, Nate. And if you have listened to me for the last three or four quarters, and I know you have, all of these caveats that we're having to apply to try to get to the real change in the performance of the company on an organic basis year-over-year, is confusing.

The amount of time that we've got to spend saying but for [audio gap] (42:18 – 42:29) it's noisy and it's noisy to the point of distraction. So you would look at impact of fair market value of leases or weather or some of these – the change in asset purchases year-over-year or the fact that we did some acquisitions that are performing better than we thought [audio gap] (42:48 – 43:22) beginning to crystallize in terms of the size of this company, and some of the additionals that we can rollout in order to take advantage of that size in the future, which we have not guided to.

So just to get a more normalized and a more sensible story out there without apostrophe, after apostrophe, after apostrophe in our written material or in our verbal presentations, obviously, it's something we have do every quarter, but hopefully, doesn't distract from the method, because the worst thing is for shareholders to be judging a quarter of snow removal and a quarter of snow in January and February, and not really understanding where we think the company is going as we get into 2015, 2016, 2017. So, thanks for giving me the opportunity to talk about that.

Yeah. No, no. I think that's really vital to put it into that perspective. So thanks for that. I just have one more question, then I'll turn it over and I appreciate all the additional color Jim, but as we look a little bit more and you talked about like Click and Park and some these other opportunities, I personally have seen a little bit more of some of these SpotHero type things that are out there and ParkWhiz, I know we have that in our garage now.

How do you guys envision as this seems to be catching a little bit of steam either working with some of these companies or doing it on your own or where is the opportunity and the revenue model going forward because certainly that seems to be one of the embedded opportunities that you are alluding to? And I know before it was probably a little bit too early to talk about, but it seems like the adoption is getting a little greater at this point. And just wondering where the opportunity is for SP? So thanks, and I'll leave it there. Thank you.

No, Thanks. And again thanks for giving me the opportunity. For purposes of confidentiality, and for the requirement of confidentiality around what we're working on, I can't speak to where we're at on those initiatives, other than to say, Nate, that we've studied all of them, that there were a variety of options available to the company to understand and a variety of directions [audio gap] (45:34 – 46:08).

By which, I think I'll be able to be much more specific as we get into the timeframe, and I think you will see us talking about that in the public much more than we've been able to talk about it today, and it just adds to the excitement level around the business at the moment.

Great. Well, thanks for all that Jim.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our question comes from the line of David Gold from Sidoti.

Hi, good morning. Just a couple of small points of follow-up. First, when we look at the guidance, the change in guidance, aside from the $0.07 that you referenced, were there any other changes to what you were looking for internally this year or is it really just that $0.07 that you're changing by? Hello? .

Your line is still connected, sir.

You seem to have gone silent.

David.

Sorry, I don't know of you know this, but your conference call has been very spotty today, I thought it was just me, but when I logged in to do it online, there's the same issues, probably 20% of what you've said – it's not been – we haven't been able to hear, just so you know.

<A – [05K7HR-E Jim Wilhelm] Thanks, David, that's unfortunate. Obviously as we're going deeper than we normally go in terms of trying to tell a story, but please go ahead with your question.

Oh. Sorry, okay. So the question was, aside from the $0.07 that you called out for the change in – for the winter, is there anything else that's changed when you look at the guidance on sort of an internal basis? What I'm trying to do is bridge to sort of where the Street was, I'm just curious if it was more – the Street was sort of off base with what you guys were looking for internally or if there's anything else that maybe has made it more back-end loaded than it was before?

Yeah. Well I think the – I think our business historically has been one where Q1 is the weakest quarter. We've talked about the reasons for that in the pre-merger period for the legacy Standard business, the weather impacts, travel and seasonality of things that go on. And so, Q1 has always been the weakest quarter.

I think as we kind of went into the merger, we were unclear what the patterns at Central would be like, and I think we've learned that, if anything, it's probably more pronounced, particularly as we have a concentration of leases in New York, which performed very, very well in the fall quarter in the run-up to the Christmas and New Year's holiday.

And then in January, activity tends – and February, March the activity tends to be much lower. So I think you will see fairly a strong seasonal aspect to our business in the first quarter on a prospective basis.

I think that didn't show itself last year, because we had the $2.7 million from the sale of the contract rights in our results in Q1 of 2013; and so I think as we thought about and noticed kind of where the Street consensus was for 2014 Q1 relative to our own internal expectations, that is our sort of understanding and thoughts about why that would have happened.

But I think we can say that when you take out the weather impact in Q1, you obviously take out the lease sale from last year and this lease accretion that we're talking about, we actually performed very, very strongly in Q1. And back to Jim's comment about growing our gross profit growth target and our expectation that our business model can grow 5% to 7%, our underlying gross profit grew 4% in the first quarter. And I think that [audio gap] (50:03 – 50:28).

You are still connected sir, their audio has cut out again.

Do you think – I'm wondering whether – can the operator come back on?

Sure, you are, you're back alive.

I'm just toying with whether we should drop the call and dial back in if that will clear the line.

Got you. Not sure.

Keep going, David.

Couple of more but given the sort of the ins and outs, I'm missing a bit. Maybe I will take them offline with you after.

Thank you, David.

Thanks.

Thank you. Would you like to try and reestablish the line sir?

Are there any more people in the queue waiting for questions, Karen?

We do have one final question.

I mean we can drop let's drop and just dial the call, does everyone have to redial in or just we have to redial in?

Just you.

All right. Let us drop the call and we will redial.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the conference will resume momentarily. [Operator Instructions]

Well we're back from SP, so if David – I don't know if you want to ask your questions now or whether you want to move on, but we're happy to take any other questions that you or the other analysts have.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Dan Moore from CJS.

Thank you again. I'll give a shot as I've been frantically plugging and unplugging the phone here. As you mentioned, your free cash flow and EPS guidance excludes potential capital spend needed for maintenance at the Central leased facilities. I know you said that they are not estimable, and I do recognize that 80% of that spend will be credited against the earn-out, but it is relevant for your cash generation for the next year or two. Can you give us any range of what is a reasonable thought process of what you might have to spend this year and next?

I think as we went into the merger, Dan, we held back $27 million from the [audio gap] (53:21 – 53:49) I think our own expectation is that we're going to have $27 million going out of the business over – between now and three years from the merger being completed which is October of next year.

Just to add to that, Dan, I think that the way also to think about it is that this is a somewhat discrete population of leases. This is not something that the population grows and grows over time, so it's somewhat discrete, and then just to reiterate the other piece of information is that, we're still going through and looking at all the engineering studies and doing the appropriate analysis to get an understanding of kind of what that would be and we're in the middle that process, and that's why we don't have anything that's estimatable, but it's not like the population of leases grows as we go through that process.

And that's helpful. Unfortunately you cut out probably 20 seconds in the middle of that as well, so this may be moot as far as the call is concerned.

Yeah, I think all we're really trying to say is that the $27 million in cash, some of which has gone out already since the merger was completed to satisfy indemnified items, will go out over a three-year period. That's something we've talked about since before we – when we actually announced the merger originally. So that is going to happen. The only part that is a question mark is, what does the accounting look like for us and whether these are predominantly capitalized items that affect D&A or whether some of these items hit the P&L, because we don't have a lot of lease term left, but that's really the issue, but there will be a cash flow impact of $27 million over the entire three-year period, some of which has happened already.

Presuming that, what, any of that does hit P&L you will call out and exclude from your adjusted results?

Yes.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you. And now I'd like to hand the conference back to Jim Wilhelm for any concluding comments.

Again, if your questions weren't answered, and you had some specific issues that we were cut out, please give Vance a call, he is certainly well equipped now to provide you [audio gap] (56:10 – (56:16) – cut out. So again not sure what the problem is, but I talked about the fact that we don't make noise all and we don't like this additional noise certainly the phone lines caused this morning.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect. Everyone, have a good day.