corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2009 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Dan, and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann, Executive


Vice President and CFO. Please proceed.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Dan and good morning everybody. As Dan just said, I’m Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking, and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to


our conference call for the first quarter of 2009. I hope everyone’s had a chance to review our


earnings announcement, which was released after the market closed yesterday. We expect to file


our 10-Q later on this week.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we’ll open the


call up for any questions that you may have.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


We do not intend to address or entertain any questions today regarding the potential sale by


Steamboat Industries LLC, our parent company, of a majority or potentially all of its stake in our


company. We refer you to the Form 8-K, which the company filed on February 6, 2009.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet. It can be accessed on our website standardparking.com and also at earnings.com. A


replay will be available on either website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Marc and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on our call this morning.


Before I talk in some detail about the first quarter, I wanted to apologize just a little bit for all the


caveats that we had in our press release last evening. I know it was a little more noise in our


releases than usual but I think I spoke starting with the third quarter and fourth quarter as we got


into this recession that we would try to add as much transparency to the numbers in terms of year-


over-year comparisons of the base business, and trying to give you a flavor for what’s going on


there excluding some of this noise and the one-time events that occurred during the first quarter,


and I’ll speak to those specifically in a minute. But certainly in all of the time that I’ve been parking


cars here, about 25 years now, this is certainly the worst economic climate for our business, even


with our business model being the way it is.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Again, besides the one-time items that we tried to sort out for you in the release last night, and


Marc and I will add more detail to that today, just sort of a convergence of issues, the Canadian


exchange rate, given the large amount of business we do in Canada has been negative. Bad debts


that we’re having to take and ultimately take write-offs for which we did in the first quarter around


clients that are going bankrupt or out of business or closing down parking facilities during these


times. For instance, we operated several malls – continue to operate several malls for General


Growth Properties, but certainly that count is down as a result of their action and their lack of cash


flows.


We’ve had severance costs during the quarter that normally we wouldn’t have, but as we’ve said


we’ve made – we’re trying to make as many moves on earth to control our spending to ensure


satisfactory earnings per share to our shareholders while gross profit is being damaged by the


economy. And then maybe last of all in that sort of detail regard, we had extraordinary snow


removal expenses across our airport lease portfolio in the first quarter and that also precluded us


from sort of achieving our normal growth pattern and why we consider the business to be


somewhat protected against recession. Certainly this is the worst one that I’ve seen in my tenure


here at Standard Parking.


Pressure remains on the portfolio where we have contracts, either reverse management contracts


or leases that are dependent on the volume of parkers. And particularly, the softness on the airport


sector and related on the travel side, the hotel business, those two sort of standout as areas of


exposure for us and will remain areas of exposure until we see some end to this client – and to this


climate. And I – based on all of the information that I read from all the wise guys, nobody seems to


have be able to accurately predict where that end might be and we’re not being overly optimistic in


our re-forecasting – in our re-forecast for the rest of year, which we just completed, that there’ll be a


whole lot of good news on the volume side of the business.


We also, as I mentioned earlier, when I talked about General Growth, we’ve seen softness on the


retail sector and the urban malls that we operate. And now that we’re into the spring event season,


we’ve seen some softness in special events. Not necessarily on the baseball stadiums that we


manage, I think it’s too early in the season. We’re still kind of too close to the buzz around opening


days to make a judgment as to where those volumes will be for the remainder of the summer and I


suppose those people at Major League Baseball know a lot about – a lot more about it than I do but


we’ll be able to judge that better whether those locations will be softer this summer than in previous


seasons.


But where we have seen a downturn for us in special events is the outright cancellation of events.


Concert venues, we operate several as you’ve heard me discuss before, large concert venues


around the country where we’ve seen cancellations of tours, entire tours by artists. So that might


have been in the past sold out for three or four nights or not even one night for that performer can


be sold out for the events or subsequently canceled. So we’ve begun to see some of that.


Geographically, we’ve always planned around making the company as geographically diverse as


possible and that strategy tends to payoff in this sort of an environment for us. We see continued


softness in the South Florida market. The Seattle market has been particularly hard hit, I think


somewhat by the economy and certainly by just an awful winter, lots of traditional events and


conventions and issues in Seattle that have been canceled as a result of bad weather. We do a lot


of valet parking in Seattle around the hotel business and we saw certainly an erosion in Seattle as


much or greater than the erosion we’ve seen at hotels overall around the country.


The New York City market continues to remain soft and softer than our original expectations, move-


outs on the office side, less travel to New York, so therefore less hotel stays and less business


being conducted in New York City. So, New York City is worth mentioning as a softer market. I’ll


certainly be able to answer your questions later if you’d like additional flavor – added to this, but I


think I’ll get into the – sort of just to the report.