Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vance C. Johnston — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, SP Plus Corp.
James A. Wilhelm — Chief Executive Officer & Director, SP Plus Corp.
G. Marc Baumann — President & Chief Operating Officer, SP Plus Corp.
Daniel Moore — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
David J. Gold — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the SP Plus Q3 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer of SP Plus. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Tulia, and good morning, everybody. As Tulia just said, I am Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer at SP Plus. Welcome to the conference call for the third quarter of 2014. I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings announcement that was released last evening.

We'll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our Chief Executive Officer; then Marc Baumann, our President and Chief Operating Officer will provide more color on the operations. And then I'll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we'll open up the call for a Q&A session.

During the call, we'll make some remarks that will be considered forward-looking statements, including statements as to our 2014 financial guidance; statements regarding expectations for the integration of the Central Parking operations, [indiscernible] (01:15) statements regarding the company's strategies, plans, intentions, future operations and expected financial performance.

Actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those described in our earnings release issued yesterday, which is incorporated by reference for purposes of this call and is available on our SP Plus website. I would also like to refer you to the risk factor disclosures made in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the Internet, and that a replay of the call will be available on our SP Plus website for 30 days from now.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Jim.

Thank you, Vance, and good morning everyone, and thanks for joining us this morning. I'm happy to report that we had a busy and productive third quarter. Marc and Vance will go into more detail later in the call, but the key measures and statistics we regularly focus on were very good for the quarter.

Underlying gross profit was up 7% on a year-over-year basis for the third quarter. We continue to see improved performance across most of our markets with especially strong growth in New York city and at some of our airport operations. Strong second and third quarter growth helped to offset the impact of the weather in the first quarter, resulting in an underlying gross profit growth for the first nine months of the year of 4%.

We were also very pleased with the substantial adjusted free cash flow of $10 million we generated during the third quarter, which brings us to $24.3 million of adjusted free cash flow through the first nine months of the year, on track toward our goal of $35 million to $40 million for the full year.

Turning to the integration process, I'm pleased to report that we're about to complete the integration of the final group of Central Parking locations onto our operating platform. What a fantastic achievement by every member of the SP Plus team who have completed the integration successfully and on-schedule. We wouldn't have been able to do this without the hard work and dedication of our folks, and I want to personally thank them for all of their efforts.

In addition, as you may recently have seen, we announced the formation of a new joint venture with Parkmobile USA. We believe the venture will become the leading provider of on-demand and prepaid transaction processing for on-street and off-street parking and transportation services.

On a personal note, as you saw in our recent press release, this will be my last earnings call as CEO of SP Plus. I will transition at the beginning of 2015 into the role of Chairman of the Board. In doing so, I will pass the baton to my longtime colleague and friend, Mark Baumann, who as of the first of the year will be CEO and President of the company. I know that Marc is going to do a terrific job, and I look forward to working with him in my new role as Chairman.

With that, I'll turn over the call to Marc, so he can provide some additional color on the business over the quarter and year-to-date.

Thanks, Jim and good morning everyone. And Jim, thanks in particular for your mentorship over the last 14 years. I know we're going to work closely together as we guide the company into the next phase of growth. I'm excited to work with everyone and capitalize on the many opportunities that we have before us.

As Jim mentioned, we had another very strong quarter underlying gross profit growth of 7%, which is driven by increases in same location gross profit and robust new business. Underlying same location gross profit increased 4% year-over-year which was primarily due to increased parking volumes, as well as [ph] improved (05:05) pricing at lease location particularly in New York City, coupled with increased penetration of ancillary services and products.

This same location growth is slightly lower than the 5% we reported for the second quarter, but we believe there were some weather related pent-up demand from the first quarter that benefited us in the second quarter. We're also pleased that location retention improved to 90% for the 12 months ended September 30, 2014.

In terms of new business, our pipeline remains strong. The SP+ Event Logistics Group will consult with NASCAR to improve traffic flow at their facilities at the Richmond International Speedway, the Talladega Superspeedway, and the Kansas Speedway. We'll implement and manage the traffic, management plan and staffing for football games and other events at Baylor University's, McLane Stadium.

Our USA Parking operation was awarded the valet parking contract for the Raleigh Hotel in Miami Beach, Florida. The flagship property for the Raleigh Group, which is owned by Tommy Hilfiger. In addition to valet parking, we'll also automate the parking facility and install new revenue control equipment. We were also awarded the contract to startup, operate, and manage the consolidated car rental shuttle at the San Diego Airport, which will commence service at the beginning of 2016.

With that, I'm going to turn the call back over to Vance to lead you through a discussion of our financial performance.

Thanks Marc, and hello everybody. I'd like to spend a few minutes reviewing our financial results in more detail. As we've done in previous quarters, we will focus on the underlying performance of our business, which excludes certain items that are not comparable on a year-over-year basis.

To that end, we have adjusted our reported results for merger and integration costs, net accretion on acquired lease contract rights, asset sales, costs incurred for non-routine structural and other repairs, and the partial payment we received for our Hurricane Sandy claim.

Getting to the results for the quarter, reported 2014 third quarter gross profit increased 9% over the same period of last year. On an underlying basis, gross profit increased 7% on a year-over-year basis. As Jim and Marc both mentioned, we are very happy with these results. There is a full reconciliation from the reported to underlying results that accompanied our earning release last night.

Third quarter 2014 adjusted G&A expenses, excluding merger and integration-related cost, increased $2.5 million from the third quarter of 2013 primarily due to a $1.3 million swing in the accrual for the company's annual performance based compensation plan.

The plan is trued up each quarter based on expected performance against targets and in the third quarter of last year the accrual was taken down by $300,000, while in the third year's third quarter – while in this year's third quarter it was increased by $1 million based on the company's results.

The increase in the third quarter accrual over last year is mostly just a timing difference. The remainder of the year-over-year quarterly increase is primarily due to other compensation and benefit costs, including increased healthcare enrollment and increased healthcare costs, along with legal cost associated with the recently announced Parkmobile joint venture transaction.

If you recall, we anticipated a G&A run rate of about $25 million per quarter in 2014. Q3, 2014 G&A is under that run rate level and is also lower than Q2, 2014. Earnings per share on a GAAP basis were $0.19 for the third quarter of 2014, compared to $0.17 for the third quarter of 2013. Earnings per share adjusted for merger and integration related expenses as well as non-routine structural and other repair costs were $0.28 per share for the third quarter of 2014, $0.06 higher than the third quarter of 2013 on the same adjusted basis.

The increase in net accretion on acquired lease contract rights and the partial payment from the Hurricane Sandy claim increased year-over-year earnings by $0.02. Based on the $0.50 of adjusted earnings per share for the nine months of 2014, we continue to expect adjusted earnings per share for the full year to be at the lower end of the previously provided range of $0.77 to $0.87 per share.

In terms of adjusted free cash flow, the company generated $10 million during the third quarter of 2014 and $24.3 million during the first nine months of the year. The underlying business performance as well as our focus on keeping past-due accounts receivable balances down during the quarter contributed to strong free cash flow generation.

Cash used to pay for non-routine structural and other repairs was $700,000 for the third quarter and $2 million for the first nine months of the year. While not a significant amount through the first nine months, the cash requirement for this purpose could increase during the rest of the year. So, our free cash flow guidance continues to exclude any non-routine structural and other repairs at legacy Central Parking lease locations. On that basis, the company still expects 2014 free cash flow to be in the range of $35 million to $40 million at this time.

That concludes our formal comments, and I'll turn the call back over to Tulia to begin the Q&A.

Certainly [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Daniel Moore of CJS Securities. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Hi, Dan.

Good morning, Dan.

Jim, just very briefly on behalf of CJS. Thanks for all your help over the years, and Marc congrats on the new role.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Vance and Marc, want to focus a little on G&A, Vance, you just mentioned the year-over-year, sequentially G&A declined over $3 million, even making the adjustments. Walk us through what drove the decline. And you mentioned, your prior guidance was closer to $25 million quarterly. Well, how should we be thinking about G&A for Q4?

Yeah. So, in the current quarter, as you alluded to, G&A came down and there's a variety of things that are impacting that. No one thing in particular. So I think that, we're once again starting to control costs better for the company overall and that gets to the adjusted – the decline in adjusted G&A. In addition to that, we also had some timing-related items, but nothing significant or specific in particular.

As we look forward to the fourth quarter, the prior guidance that we gave was, we would expect G&A to be below $25 million per quarter. We still think that's the case. And in fact we would expect kind of G&A for the fourth quarter to be even not necessarily on an adjusted basis what we had in the third quarter, maybe a little bit higher than that, but certainly below the $25 million of guidance that we've previously provided.

If it ticks back up a bit, are there any specific factors you can point out to and what the magnitude might be?

Yeah. And I say this all, this is all notwithstanding any adjustments that we would have for our PBC accrual. So, as we had in the current quarter, we had an adjustment to our PBC accrual that was fairly significant and certainly as you think about it on a year-over-year change basis, we could have that in the fourth quarter as well based on performance. And hopefully we do; that would be a good sign. But outside of that as we kind of move into the fourth quarter, there are certain things like for example as we kind of come to the end of the year and we have people that have certain taxes and things of that nature that we no longer have to incur in the fourth quarter that we may have had to incur related to payroll for the first three quarters of the year, that will give us a little bit of a benefit.

There are certain cost that we incurred in the first three quarters that we're now talking about related to the Parkmobile transaction legal cost and things of that nature, we would expect less of those in the fourth quarter. So, those are the type of things. And then also as we continue on with the integration of the two companies and continue to reap the benefits of that as we kind of move quarter to quarter to quarter, we would expect notwithstanding any kind of one-time cost those to kind of continue to get traction as well, but those would be the result type of things that would result in slightly lower G&A cost for the fourth quarter.

Little lower than the $25 million, you are seeking...

Yes. Lower than the $25 million, that's correct. But not lower than the amount that we reported in the third quarter.

Adjusted. Okay. And stepping back up to gross profit, and then I'll jump back in queue. Last fiscal Q4, obviously had a kind of a tough comp, you had a $2 million year-over-year benefit from accretion of leases and sales of JVs and other assets. So, as we look out to Q4, gross profit would you expect that year-over-year growth rate to moderate before we maybe start to pick back up in 2015?

Well, Dan, the way I would look at it is on an adjusted basis. And we talked about how underlying gross profit has grown at 4% for the year and at a higher clip the last two quarters as we recovered particularly in Q2 from the adverse weather and Q1 that really took about $3 million out of our gross profit that we would have otherwise had in the first quarter of this year.

So, I think as you know our targeted gross profit growth rate is in the 5% to 7% range. We have run a little higher clip than that the last couple of quarters on an adjusted basis. It would be great if that continues, we hope it does, but I think as you look at our business, your expectation should be that on an adjusted basis, and that's adjusted to not have the assets sales adjusted, to not have the lease accretion. On an underlying basis, our target remains to try to getting that 5% to 7% range.

Yeah, that's helpful. And as I said, I will – I have a few follow-ups. But, I'll jump back in queue. Thank you.

Thanks, Dan.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of David Gold of Sidoti. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi, David.

First off, of course, Jim, it has been an absolute pleasure working with you. And our congratulations to Marc as well.

Thank you.

Thank you both. First, can you give an update by way of – I know the bulk of the synergies that you expect or anticipated for 2015. But as we think about a integration, as you put it lightly complete at this point. Can you give a sense for how we should think about how the synergies layer in over the next year?

Yeah. We haven't really quantified what that is yet David, but when we went into this merger as you know we said that we thought we'd have $20 million of synergies. We later up that as we got into the actual process of bringing the two companies together. And as Jim said in his remarks at the beginning, we're basically at the end of the integration process. However, as you know our integration process was geared towards getting on to one platform as quickly as we could and to maintain our client relationships.

And as I mentioned earlier it's nice to see that we've ticked up to 90% retention. I think we've done a great job of holding on to our clients through this integration. What we didn't do and this was a deliberate decision, was optimize our processes. And so as we now turn our attention into 2015, we see opportunities to take further cost out of our business and to optimize what we do in a number of various. Just as an example, we didn't rationalize all the ways that Central did things and the way Standard did things. We just kept all of those, we made them work on the Standard back office platform. So our goal will be to try to get down to one way of doing things and not two ways or three ways. So there will be opportunities, some of those projects are going to take time, all the benefits of that are not going to flow into 2015, but I think you'll see us working very hard to bring G&A down from current levels as we move forward into 2015 and 2016.

Got it. So, Marc, is that another way of saying, then, that there's presumably another year in there or year and a half of, let's say, project work that it will take to produce those synergies?

It will depend on the area, David, I mean, they're something that are going to happen, that are going to be positive for G&A right off the bed, steps that we're taking out. But, yeah, some of the more complexing things that require IT programs to be modified are going to take a little longer and we may not see the benefits from those until 2016. But our, we are at work on that now. Now that the bandwidth for people on the support side of the business and the IT side has been freed up, we're turning our attention to those things and we're going to grab all we can to make 2015 better. But there is a lot of areas to go in ahead in terms of terms of optimizing our support side of the business.

Got you.

The thing I would add to that, I mean, one of the goals in trying to become more efficient is really to enable our field organization to have more of their focus on client relationships and selling new business. We did say at a meeting of our senior leaders over the past week and one of the focal points for us is how do we get people out into the organization more? How do we get them away from their desk and having to do less administrative task? How do we automate things that they're still having to spend time on, so they can focus on driving up our retention rate, having better quality operation, selling our ancillary services into our client? That should be the main focus of our organization. That's how we grow at the 5% to 7% target rate. So, a lot our objectives in becoming more efficient is partly to reduce cost, but it's also partly to make our field organization more productive so that we can grow this business at a faster clip.

Got you. Okay. Helpful and then one other, as I delve into the numbers a little bit, on the management context side, it looks like we've increased the number of contract facilities but at the same time average revenue per facility has come in some, and I was just curious if you can comment on what's happening there by way of mix?

Yeah, it's a tricky one as you know because in aggregate, our results are the results that goes on at thousands of individual locations. But we have the ongoing changes in contract mix, I was a little surprised to notice once again that the mix of contracts it changed between managements and leases. We've had insurance reserves move up and down on a quarterly basis, then we call them out when they're really big, but they do have an impact on our results. And so, I think it's just the ebbs and flows of the business.

There is really no one thing that we looked at, and we said wow, that's really driving the number. And of course, for us the goal is always, how do we grow gross profit on the management contract level and I think we were on track for a great year with new business, where we know we had a record year last year. So that's a tough part to compare with, but we're doing, very, very well against that right now. And I expect to see continued growth in gross profit on the management contract side.

Got you. Perfect. That's helpful. Thanks.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke of Barrington Research. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Let me add my thanks, and congratulations to Jim, as you transition into your new role. And also Marc congratulations as well.

Thanks Kev.

Thank you.

Sure. Hey, just to clarify, obviously you will see the benefits of the integration onto one system around the beginning of 2015. But then you have incremental projects beyond that may kind of take a little while and then lead into 2016, is that the way to think about it?

Yeah. I think the best way to sort of visualize that conversation is, with the integration wrapping up through the end of this year, Marc and Vance, on a move forward basis will be able to remove some of the noise around the comparison of numbers, and the G&A run rate as it kicks off in 2015, will be the result of the work that the integration brought regarding synergies. And Marc had addressed that with a finite answer earlier.

I think what we're communicating is that we have known from the time we kicked off the acquisition of Central, that following the two-year integration period of getting Central in essence on to the Standard process system that there would be additional G&A to attack by a virtue of making that platform more efficient. Those of you that have been – I think all the three of you have been following us enough to know that before we bought Central, we have kicked off an initiative by virtue of investment in technology, and the way we looked at systems and a systemic approach to process that began to tackle issues around the payroll side of the business, and benefit side of the business, and the reconciliation of insurance claims, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. We were only halfway finished with that investment when we bought Central. So there remains rather significant activity or a significant opportunity available, whether it's through the investment of additional technology or a re-engineering of some of our processes, and Marc alluded to those in his comments that we can take advantage of.

Other areas of opportunity on that side are relative to our claims and our exposure for our casualty programs, et cetera, and I know that Marc and Vance are both poised to sort of attack in both of those directions as we get into 2015. Specifically to answer your question, Kev, I think I would look at it as an opportunity for G&A to shrink somewhat over the calendar year 2015, but as Marc said, the larger opportunity. And I think the achievement of the goal, I mean the goal remains the same at G&A around 45% – between 40% and 45% of gross profit over time. We think that these opportunities complete that cycle for us and ought to get us to those levels.

Okay. Great. Thanks for that commentary. And the improved performance that you noted across most of your markets and you highlighted New York City, I mean is that just a function of parking volumes picking up or can you attribute that just to some of your internal execution as well?

I think it's a combination like anything else, Kevin. We're certainly seeing a better economic backdrop in 2014 than we've had for some time. So, I think that's positive. And when that happens that means people are out and about, they're making those weekend trips into the city to stay at a hotel. So I think there's been an improving economic scenario for us and what that's meant is that we've been able to look and we do this on a regular basis at all of our lease locations for opportunities to increase parking rates as the market moves up. And I think there's been good and maybe better opportunity to do that this year than there has been for some time, and you're seeing that in the lease performance.

We also have a dedicated team of operational experts that we deploy to get out into our business, and to help our facility managers improve their performance and that's been very, very successful this year. In fact, we're going to be expanding that activity as we move into 2015. So, I think it's a combination of factors like everything else, but there is a major focus on our business. We can be great on cutting costs. We can be great at being more efficient. We've got some of the noise of this legacy stuff dragging behind us that will get wrapped up during the remainder of this year and into 2015, but ultimately our organization is now focused on how do we grow faster and you're seeing us as we emerge from the distraction of the integration being able to have our – expecting our field organization and our support functions to focus on making that happen and I think that's starting to show in our results.

Great. And if I could also ask about the Parkmobile joint venture. If you could just walk through how that works from a financial perspective and also what it really brings to you that you didn't have before and how you see that relationship working going forward?

Yeah. Thanks for asking about that Kev. Perhaps, the three of us are not overboard in terms of being salesmen particularly on these calls, but perhaps the most significant issue in our release this quarter is the joint venture announcement that we made regarding Parkmobile. I have been speaking at all of your conferences over the past years and talking to you about our awareness that the consumer will drastically and dramatically change the way they select parking facilities and transportation [ph] rights (27:29) in the future.

Perhaps, the most significant reason for the acquisition of Central Parking was the opportunity that we felt that being able to leverage our size in the marketplace would bring us for the future positioning of the company based on the consumer changing their habits in the future. I know all of you read about connected cars and all of you read about making sure that people are reserving spaces at airports for a variety of tiers of parking, and the same for stadiums and special events. And I can tell you that doing things as simple as making theater reservations or movie ticket purchasing or dinner reservations will ultimately be accompanied by choices as it relates to people parking their cars.

So, the Parkmobile announcement is really the first step of several initiatives that we hope to announce before the end of the year, which begin to position our company well for that change in consumer behaviors. Obviously, for the benefit of our clients at those facilities that we manage and market on their behalf, but just as significantly in regards to the future opportunities and the value that can be brought to our shareholders.

The Parkmobile transaction is the first piece, where we are able to now provide on-demand and reserved parking capabilities to consumers and the way they choose parking. So, picture an airport that typically has its most premium spaces full. And a businessperson wants to make sure they can access those facilities for easy in-and-out privilege as well. The Parkmobile products by virtue of having our click and park product joined at the hip with it will enable that businessperson to make a reservation for that high-demand parking space in advance.

Obviously, all of the peripheral parking control devices are online with us and they have been for 10 years in order to make that reservation available. That person will prepay for their parking while they're at the airport and for the privilege of doing so, they will pay transaction fees, are those transaction fees that will inure to our benefit and the benefit of our shareholders over time. Same thing with on-demand capabilities.

Parkmobile has contracts in a variety of cities where people can pay on-demand at parking meters depending on their sign-up and being preapproved as part of a consumer-facing portal. Those transaction fees are also inured to the benefit of the Parkmobile joint venture. So obviously this first step puts us in a leverageable position as it relates to transacting parking and ridership in the future.

I think that [indiscernible] (30:26) to further leverage our inventory and perhaps the inventory of the parking industry by virtue of portals designed to attract consumers, whether it's on the dashboard of their cars or from their handheld devices or from laptop computers or iPads et cetera, et cetera, et cetera for making choices about where to park and how to ride in the future with again a variety of inventory opportunities to chose from.

So we're excited about the first step. We are diligently working towards completing some work on the inventory side and I can only tell you that we've been at this for three years or four years and in terms of trying to piece all of this together, you can imagine in a very fragmented industry trying to consolidate on behalf of the consumer parking in ridership opportunity. So we think we are just tickle the depth that we're able to get the first phase of this completed and you'll hear Marc and Vance talk about it on a much more involved basis as it moves forward.

Fantastic. Thank you for that commentary. If I could just sneak one last one in, I did notice that the number of leased locations has been coming down in the last few quarters. But at the same time, you've seen strong growth in gross profit for leased location, at least as I calculated. Is that a function just, again, of demand picking up across your markets? Or is there any factor in there like you are pulling back from less profitable lease locations and lease contracts as you kind of assort through the portfolio?

Well, you've hit on really all the things that are going on and if you go back to the comments I made a few minutes ago, Kevin, I talked about the fact that our existing leases are performing much better because, we've been able to put up rates and we have our operational excellence group out there, working with our facility managers, driving change and to optimize the performance of our lease locations and that includes making sure we have the right rates in place, but also that we have an efficient staffing program and that we're doing all the right things to maximize the performance of our leased locations. And we're doing that at a number of locations now. And as I indicated we're going to be expanding the capacity of that group. We're going to be doubling it in size actually as we move into 2015, taking G&A resources from elsewhere in the company, so that we can put more of an emphasis on that, because we really see the value of driving improved performance across our 800 leases, and of course all of our management contracts as well.

Now, the other side of this is that as we look at the portfolio of leases that we inherited and most of our leases do come from the Central Parking side, I think everyone is aware we had a number of looser leases in that portfolio. And one of the things that we've been very, very actively looking at and working on with those is, first of all, optimize and improve their performance, so even if the lease is losing, a $100,000 a year, maybe we can make it profitable by doing some of the things that I've just been describing if it's losing more than that then we can at least reduce the amount of the loss, and some of that's been taking place.

But more importantly, these leases are going to be burning off, and for the most part, they're going to burn off over sort of a five year to seven year period from the time of the merger. So that maybe five years more to go from where we sit today. As they burn off, if we're able to convert those into profitable opportunities by adjusting the rent, then we renew them. If we're unable to do this and we let them go, and we have let a lot of them go. And you can understand it in a lot of markets, the landlord doesn't care who the operator is, all they care about is maximizing their rent. So when you come in and say, what we think we need to pay less rent than we were paying before, that's not usually a positive conversation.

So we are going to be letting a number of the losers go as time passes, and so, you will see the lease count continue to come down. The other thing that's happening, and I touched on it, but I didn't really elaborate, few minutes ago is that the continuing trend in our industry is definitely toward management contracts and away from leases. And so, as deals come up for renewal, we are seeing many lease scenarios where the client is saying, throw me a management opportunity as an alternative to a lease structure, and so, our percentage of management contracts as a percentage of the total portfolio continues to grow. And that will happen. Now what we're doing so that we can participate in that is offering attractive management contract structures to our clients, where we participate in the improvement of their operations, because ultimately that's what we're good at.

It doesn't matter who has been operating it before, whether it's the client themselves or another operator, when we come in we know we are going to drive improvements in revenue of 10% or 20% or more. And we're also going to drive our costs both because we can schedule efficiently, but also because we buy things in large quantities, whether it's uniforms or parking tickets or clean supplies. So, we're going to improve the financial performance of a parking facility or a transportation operation or other things that we do. And our goal, as we position ourselves to offer those services, whether the client chooses a lease or the client chooses a management structure, we want to participate in the benefit, the value that we're giving them.

And that's a little bit of a pivot for us. Because for many years a lot of our management contracts were structured as 60 with a CPI escalator and I think what we're recognizing and our clients are starting to recognize, there's value for us to participate with them in the improvement of their operation. Because they believe they're going to get more improvement that way. And we're starting to see some evidence of that in the business. That will be a major focus in 2015 and beyond.

We appreciate the questions that all of you have each quarter about our G&A. And how we have addressed it vis-a-vis integration of the two companies and where were the kicking off point is for further G&A reductions as we now begin to look at it integrated company and take advantage of process opportunities as we spoke of earlier. But sometimes I think we spend too much time. The opportunity to reduce G&A and I don't mean just to reduce it, to just academic terms. But good managers, we'll make sure that G&A is reduced and it has been a focus of our certainly in the consideration of the purchase of Central Parking, but certainly in our decision to have Vance aboard as CFO to enact that sort of second phase G&A attack. And the boys have talked about that rather as lengthen now for the last several quarters.

Sometimes I don't think we've spend enough time in terms of the opportunities to grow gross profit, because on a parallel basis putting the company together, putting the companies together, now provides a kickoff on a parallel path towards the opportunities that we have on the gross profit side of the business. And I'm taking about the organic side, Marc talked about it briefly, but we had our entire senior leadership in the last week for our annual conference. And we did not discuss G&A at all, G&A reductions will occur by virtue of our support leadership and the initiatives we talked about.

The entire conference is focused on growth of our gross profit, and the ability now, because we have transitioned our organization charts and the most recent announcements about our succession planning, further that, the organization – the operating organization and the sales organization is now in place for 2015, and they are no longer distracted by the integration that they've had to supervise by virtue of process change in their geographies. So we've spent the entirety of last week talking about the opportunities to cross-sell our products, the opportunities to look in the municipal and institutional markets for growth that those that came with us from Central may not have been aware of.

So we have a variety of tools in our toolkit now that we fully deployed to the organization to make them aware of the company's capabilities via the markets that we can serve and the products that we can offer. And, again, given the opportunities and the overall targeting of 5% to 7% organic gross profit growth, I feel a lot better moving into 2015 by being able to remove some of the distractions that we've had for the past two years. And just speaking of distractions, being able to communicate those things to you all, on a move forward basis, changes radically in 2015.

The terms, underlying, adjusted – adjusted for this, adjusted for that, that nonsense begins to go away. And I think that it's rather exciting that Mark and Vance are going to be able to communicate on a much more straightforward basis about the key metrics that drive our growth as we get into 2015 and then reap additional benefits into 2016 and beyond. It's kind of a fun time to be around here.

Fantastic. Thanks for all the helpful commentary as usual.

Yeah. Sorry for the speech, Kevin, but, get a little passionate about it.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Daniel Moore of CJS Securities. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Jim, along the same lines, maybe just update us on renewals. As we look out to 2015, the percentage of contracts that are up for renewal, does that increase or decrease? And, I know there's some larger ones. And what's the general environment, is it a headwind, neutral, is it turning into maybe a little bit of a tailwind, just update us there?

The best way for us to answer that is, we think it's stabilized. If we measure the change in same-store sales and the boys spent time this morning, and in the release talking about same-store sales. That's the key statistic in terms of renewals. And again to answer that with one word would be stabilized. For 2015, it's not an unusual year for us in terms of upcoming contracts that are due for renewal. Our airport people have done a fantastic job on our larger contracts. There are always a couple that are out there and we're in the midst of renewing a couple of those now. We had a big win though in San Diego for the ConRAC shuttle in San Diego. And we're right down to the wire on being able to tell you about a rather significant airport, net change for us. So there is nothing in the horizon out of the normal for 2015.

Marc very elegantly spoke about sort of re-attacking the market with a new pricing model. As we're renewing contracts, we found that we are getting some traction by virtue of proposing to the client that we are so confident that we can raise revenue, your top line, that we're willing to risk our fees and our profit opportunities and overhead reimbursements by demonstrating that we can do that. I often speak about, it sometimes it's negative being the old man around here, because we're moving towards management contract pricing structures that were in place 25 years ago.

When I was doing management contracts 25 years ago, they were almost always as a percentage of the growth and you were married to the client in terms of a true partnership. And there was transparency in that partnership. So we've been sort of stealthy isn't necessarily the best word, but we've been moving the organization by offering them additional pricing model opportunities that they can take to the market and we've seen some success, which is why some of those headwinds are being reduced.

Very helpful and one more, a lot of discussion and this kind of falls under the bucket of some of those non-recurrings that will likely go away over the next year or so, but the maintenance CapEx required for the Central Parking leases. Lots of discussion, it's only been a $1.2 million year-to-date. Can you give us some sense of a range of magnitude that you're thinking about for Q4 and into 2015?

Yeah. Dan, this is Vance. So, a couple things, one, I think everybody is familiar with the fact that for those structural repair cost that there, a portion of those, 80% is indemnified through the indemnification provision that we have in our agreement and disclosed in our 10-Q. And what I would tell you is that we provided a range of what really were – still in the process of going through and looking at those individual locations and as you can imagine it is fairly complex and we have to have engineers look at that and as such we provided a range of additional costs that we would expect or that could take place, we disclosed that in our Q after the end of the second quarter, we'll be updating that. And so, that information will be provided in our Q, when we issue our Q, which will be the end of this week.

Just one thing I'd add to Vance, because [indiscernible] (44:40) tell you, you used the term maintenance CapEx and one of the issues that we've had is we thought about the merger was with the maintenance CapEx for the business putting leases to the positive or the business and what we know is that the pre-merger Standard we're spending about $5 million a year and the pre-merger Central, we're spending $9 million or $10 million a year. And some of that $9 million or $10 million was some centralization and efficiency exercises that they were doing with technology and some of it was all repairs, routine repairs and other things that they were obligated to under their leases.

And so, as we kind of went into the deal, we thought well initially we're going to basically spend some of that, and of course, if you look at history, that's basically what's happened in 2013 and in 2014 in terms of the trend rates. And my hope is that overtime because we are more current on sort of routine maintenance type activities, and we're through the crux of the integration, that we'll be able to take a larger percentage of their total spend and turn it towards driving cost out of the business, the projects that Vance is going to lead as we look to optimize. And so the absolute number might not come down for a little while, but I think ultimately what we'll see is more and more of that spend is going to be driving things that are going to help us grow faster or take cost out of our business as opposed to just cleaning up old stuff from the past.

That's a great color. I'll look for queue and thank you again.

Thank you.

Thanks, Dan.

Thanks, Dan.

And thank you. I will now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Jim Wilhelm for any closing remarks.

Thank you, Tulia. And I just want to thank all of you for having had the opportunity to be on these calls for many, many years. It is the perfect time for this transition with a roll down now of the Central Parking transition and integration. Marc, and I have had a two-year succession plan that obviously is now winding down, but I think we've really been planning and working and nurturing Marc for this job for all 14 years we've been together.

So, I look forward to the new leadership that he and Vance, and the operating team will have. I get to hang around the company for a little while at least and be here to help them out. But again now is the perfect time. I sort of closed our meeting with the same way I closed our annual conference. Last weekend, people asked me if I wish anything more different, and the only thing I wish for different is rather than being my age and have been here 30 years, I wish in another life if I was coming back here as a 35-year-old or 40-year-old regional manager to begin to deploy some of the opportunity this company has in terms of the table being set for the future and it will be a quite exciting place for those people and those future leaders of the business as the company continues to enact change across all of its border.

So again thanks for hanging in there with me and thanks for being on the call today and look forward to seeing some of you down the road. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation on today's conference. This concludes the program. You may now disconnect. Everyone have a great day.