corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2010 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shannon. I will be your operator for today. At this


time all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]


I will now like to turn the conference over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Shannon and good morning everybody. As Shannon just said, I’m Marc Baumann, the


Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking, and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact.


Welcome to our conference call for the first quarter of 2010. I hope all of you’ve had a chance to


review our earnings announcement, which was released last evening.


We’ll begin our call today as usual with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that we’ll


open up the call up for Q&A session.


During the call we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, we don’t intend to address or entertain any questions today regarding the lawsuit filed by


John Holten. Additional details about the lawsuit and the company’s response will be included in


the company’s Form 10-Q which we expect to file by Friday this week.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website standardparking.com. A replay will be available on


the website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Marc and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning. As we stated in our


release last night, 2010 is off to sort of a challenging start that we expected. There remains a group


of leases and reverse management contracts noticeably affected by the economic downturn, either


because of where they are geographically located or because of the vertical markets they’re in


which is impacting the year-on-year results.


To add a little more color to that, I would tell you that all of our volumes in very specific sectors, the


hotel business; the airport business; the special event areas, stadiums and special events; and


retail centers continue to be year-over-year down. In other words, the volume of paid exits that


we’re seeing in those sorts of venues – 2010 over the first of quarter of 2009 remain down on a


year-over-year basis, some of those areas in double-digit year-over-year negative comparisons. So


if we were to look at years like 2006 or early 2007 before the recession, we would see paid exit


declines in those areas that I’m referring to now of over 20%, on average, drops in paid exits.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So while we – and I’ve talked about this the last two quarters, why we continue to understand


upticks in the financial sectors and upticks in manufacturing and even in housing and some sectors


like that, what we see at the consumer level is a much different picture. Whether that is the result of


continued increases in net unemployment, or spikes in gasoline prices causing the consumer to


rethink disposable income, or increases in adjustable mortgages, or the daily pressures that are


brought on those sort of people that we serve, certainly their dispensable or disposable incomes


might be affecting whether they spend that weekend at a hotel, or they take that quick trip vacation


somewhere, or whether they go to the mall or attend the baseball or hockey or basketball games


with their kids. So, we still think that there has not been any sort of trending in an area that gives us


any sort of reason to see in the near term, or certainly over the last quarter, any uptick in consumer


volumes at our locations.


Also there are some specific markets where we continue to see depression. Certainly the South


Florida market, Miami in particular, and New Orleans, as you might suspect, we’ve seen continued


downward trends at our locations in those cities. So they’re certainly having an effect, not totally


unexpected, because as I told you when we gave guidance to begin the year we didn’t anticipate


any sort of real positive trends. There was nothing in the crystal ball that gave us reason to think


that we’d see an uptick in volumes in the first quarter or even in the second quarter or, nor did our


guidance anticipate a whole lot of positive news on that front through 2010.


Conversely, we didn’t think about or we didn’t anticipate continued downward trending in 2010


either. So I wanted to add just a little bit of color to those facilities where we have exposure to


volumes, whether they’re leases or reverse management contracts. Our traditional management


contracts as a whole are performing well and in line, certainly with our expectations.


Somewhat compounding the effects of the economy were the severe winter storms that we had,


which hit many areas of the country, which somewhat reduced expected parking volumes, but


certainly increased our snow removal costs. Finally, we took a $400,000 hit to fully resolve a


lingering legal case that we spoke of during the fourth quarter call last.


Our general and administrative expenses are down 9% from last year’s first quarter. In fact, the first


quarter marked a significant milestone for our technology initiatives as we substantially completed


the rollout of our automated iPayable system to include all of our U.S. vendors which contributed to


our decrease in G&A.


I’m also glad to report that our location retention rate returned to 90% and our location operating


profit retention remained steady at 96%. And as I’ve explained before what that means is that only


4% of our last 12 month’s profit came from locations that we no longer operate.


Our Gameday acquisition has smoothed out some of our typical first quarter seasonality.


Nevertheless, we expect that the first quarter of each year will continue to generate lower earnings


than subsequent calendar quarters, and if you look back for a period of time you would see that.


We don’t guide you by quarter-by-quarter but we don’t – also guide you to say that it’s as easy as


taking our guidance for the year and dividing that by 4. That’s not sort of our traditional history for a


variety of reasons, new business kicking in and summer seasonality at some of our event venues


and other things. So I wanted to be a little more clear on that.


Based on our just completed forecast for this year, we do expect to make up for the first quarter


shortfall. We are reaffirming our full year EPS guidance of $1.10 to a $1.20. Because our original


guidance range did not include any costs for any litigation with Mr. Holten, in terms of what Marc


said before, affirmation about our original guidance range also excludes any impact of any costs


that we may incur in connection with that lawsuit that he filed.