Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vance C. Johnston — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, SP Plus Corp.
G. Marc Baumann — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, SP Plus Corp.
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
David J. Gold — Analyst, Sidoti & Company, LLC
Daniel J. Moore — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the SP Plus Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to today's host for today's conference, Mr. Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer of SP Plus. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you, Michelle, and good morning, everybody. As Michelle just said, I'm Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer at SP Plus. Welcome to the conference call for the second quarter of 2015. I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings announcement that was released last evening. We'll begin our call today with a brief overview by Marc Baumann, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Then I'll discuss our financial performance in a little more detail. After that, we'll open up the call for a Q&A session.

During the call, we'll make some remarks that will be considered forward-looking statements, including statements as to our 2015 financial guidance, and statements regarding the company's strategies, plans, intentions, future operations and expected financial performance. Actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties or other factors, including those described in our earnings release issued yesterday, which is incorporated by reference for purposes of this call and is available on our SP Plus website. I would also like to refer you to the risk factor disclosures made in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the Internet, and that a replay will be available on our SP Plus website for 30 days from now.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mark.

Thanks, Vance, and good morning, everyone. We're very pleased with our second quarter and year-to-date performance. The year-to-date year-over-year second quarter comparison is somewhat of a challenge because some of the strength we saw in the second quarter of last year in 2014 resulted from the release of pent up demand from the first quarter of 2014, which as you know was impacted by severe weather.

Q2 2014 gross profit was up 6% on an adjusted basis versus 2013. So that's really a strong indication of the bounce we got in Q2 last year from the weak Q1 in last year. So that's definitely impacting our Q2 results on a comparative basis. And of course, ultimately we think that the year-to-date performance is a better indicator of how we're performing as it combines both Q1 and Q2 for last year and this year.

Our year-to-date 2015 adjusted EBITDA is up $5.9 million or 17% over 2014, driven primarily by adjusted gross profit growth of 7% and controlling G&A. A number of our key initiatives are gaining traction, which we believe is reflected in our year-to-date results. We're continuing to see strong forward momentum in new business as our 2015 pace is running ahead of the previous record levels.

I want to highlight a few of our recent wins across our diverse set of vertical markets. Our focus on municipal markets continues to pay off with the expansion of our relationship with the City of San Mateo, California. We'll consult with the city on its downtown parking and transportation planning related decisions, including acquisition of new parking equipment, parking website design, creation of new online parking permit program, upgrading of the parking enforcement systems, implementation of centralized downtown valet programs, new digital graphics, facility maintenance and interactive marketing. The city also renewed a multiyear operating agreement for our continued oversight of its on-street and off-street parking meter program.

We're also expanding our presence in the institutional market with the award of a contract to provide customer service and cashiering for Duke University and Duke University Hospital campus in Durham, North Carolina. The multi-year contract encompasses five parking garages comprising of approximately 2,500 parking spaces. On the event side, our SP+ Event Logistics group was awarded a contract to provide assorted event logistics and shuttle management services for the FIFA Women's World Cup events that were held during June 2015 in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. We also expanded our relationship with NASCAR venues with the addition of the Auto Club Speedway in Fontana, California.

We also provided consulting services to the Special Olympics World Games 2015 organizing committee in Los Angeles, and this is a particularly nice contract for us because two days after the event began, the committee turned to us to take over management of the event's transportation program. We promptly brought in over 100 staff to deliver a successful transportation program for the athletes, media, guests and families in attendance at the 14-day event. On the maintenance front, we recently began offering an array of maintenance services in the Toronto market for 23 parking facilities, and expansion of our relationship with GWL Realty Advisors for whom we previously have been providing only parking management services.

In addition to expanding our service offerings to existing clients, we're also continuing to leverage our relationships with large commercial developers and REITs to win new business. MVP REIT recently selected us to provide its parking management services at the CW parking location in Milwaukee's Central Business District. The company now has received contracts to manage the parking operation at 12 MVP REIT properties since October of last year. Despite all the new business activity in the first half the year, our overall location count has decreased by 182 locations since the end of 2014. A large component of this decrease is attributable to the loss of two contracts to manage 116 mostly small surface lots concentrated in the West Coast.

Correspondingly, our location retention rate dipped to 88% for the 12 months ended June 30, 2015. While the loss of these contracts represents a big decrease in the number of locations, it does not have a material effect on our gross profit. We continue to be focusing on growing our net locations, improving our location retention rate to 92%, which is a level that Standard as a standalone company was able to achieve in the recent past. As you can see, we've had a very busy and productive year so far. We're well under way in executing on our key initiatives, including our cost reduction initiatives, and are pleased with our progress to-date.

I want to talk a little bit about one of our key areas of focus regarding safety and risk management. We're rolling out a number of new safety and loss mitigation programs. We recently launched a comprehensive safety communication campaign designed to provide our field operation with an expanded set of tools to prevent accidents and injuries. We're also invested in safety and risk reduction expertise, meaning we've add some new folks to provide increased access training and accountability to our frontline organization where risk is most effectively managed. We're also refining our claims administration program in order to process and close claims faster and more cost-effectively.

In addition, we're reviewing our overall insurance program structure to find the best carriers, the optimal attachment points, and the proper retentions to ensure that the program is reflective of our current risk appetite. We believe that risk is an area with significant opportunities, and these initiatives will position us well to reduce our total cost of risk over the coming months.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Vance to lead you through a more detailed discussion of our financial performance and guidance for 2015.

Thanks Mark and hello everybody. I'd like to spend a few minutes reviewing our financial results in more detail. As a reminder I want to reiterate that we're presenting and we'll focus our comments on adjusted results that exclude the impact of non-routine items such as restructuring, merger and integration costs, related to non-routine structural and other repairs, one-time transaction costs, certain non-routine tax items, and the impact of any non-routine asset sales or dispositions. We include in this last category, the contribution of the company's Click & Park business to Parkmobile, meaning that we've adjusted the 2014 results as if the Click & Park revenues and costs had already been contributed to Parkmobile, and we have also excluded the company's equity interest in the joint venture for purposes of comparability.

Now, second quarter 2015 adjusted gross profit was essentially flat as compared to the same period last year as with same operating location gross profit growth. As Mark mentioned earlier, because the second quarter of last year was such a strong quarter due to the release of pent-up demand from the first quarter, the quarterly year-over-year metrics are not indicative of the solid performance of the second quarter of this year. In any event, we did continue to see strong new business momentum in the second quarter across our businesses. We also continue to see decreases in our casualty loss reserve estimates and health benefit cost, which benefited second quarter gross profit by $700,000 and $900,000, respectively.

We believe we are starting to see the benefits of some of the safety programs Mark mentioned earlier. Adjusted G&A for the second quarter of 2015 was slightly higher than the second quarter of last year, largely due to cost for our 2015 performance-based compensation, and long-term incentive programs which were $1 million higher than last year. Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $22.9 million, a slight decrease from the same period last year. Adjusted EPS was $0.29 in the second quarter of 2015, a $0.01 higher than the adjusted EPS for the second quarter of 2014.

Touching now on the year-to-date results, which we believe are more indicative of the company's performances we mentioned earlier. Adjusted gross profit for the first half of 2015 was $89.3 million, a 7% increase over the same period of last year. On a same location basis, for operating locations, gross profit for the fiscal half of 2015 was 3% higher than the same period last year. We're pleased with the same level location gross profit growth, and this continues to be an area of significant focus.

Adjusted G&A for the first half of 2015 was up slightly by about $400,000 or 1% over the same period last year. A $2.7 million increase in cost for our performance-based compensation and long-term incentive programs was the primary driver of what otherwise would have been a nice year-over-year decrease in G&A of about $2.3 million. As we mentioned regularly, we're very focused on executing on key cost reduction initiatives and better managing G&A, and we believe we're starting to see the benefit of this.

Resulting adjusted EBITDA increased $5.9 million or 17% in the first half of 2015 as compared to the same period of last year. Both periods of 2015 and 2014 had significant tax benefits resulting from the reversal of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets, which have been excluded from the adjusted results for both years. Adjusted EPS for the first half of 2015 was $0.43 as compared to $0.23 for the first half of last year, an increase of $0.20. In addition to increased adjusted EBITDA, lower interest expense resulting from the amended senior credit agreement that we put in place earlier this year also contributed to the year-over-year adjusted EPS increase.

Based on the results for the first half of the year, we continue to expect both adjusted earnings per share and adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be towards the higher end of the guidance range. Adjusted free cash flow of $5.5 million was generated during the first half of 2015 as compared to $14.3 million generated during the first half of 2014. While 2015 adjusted free cash flow was lower than last year, largely due to increased [ph] cash (11:56) taxes in 2015, which was expected, it was in line with our six-month expectations, and we continue to expect to generate adjusted free cash flow of $30 million to $36 million for the full year.

That concludes our formal comments. And I'll turn it back over to Michelle to begin the Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Dan Moore with CJS Securities. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning, this is actually [ph] Robert Magic (12:35) backing up Dan.

Good morning, [ph] Robert (12:37).

Good morning, [ph] Robert (12:37).

Could you talk a little about the environment for contract renewals today compared to where they were two years? Is pricing for renewals neutral, positive or still a moderate headwind?

I think one of the challenges we have in answering a question like that is that things do vary a lot across our verticals. I'd say in the commercial real estate markets and the traditional areas that we've operated in, we're seeing similar environment to what we saw a couple of years ago. Our goal in management contract relationships is to prevent those – our existing locations from going out to renewal and obviously just continuing to operate there. As you know, private companies don't have to put things out to bid. So our goal is to do such a great job as we can to avoid on the client thinking in terms of putting it out to bid.

So I would say, there environment hasn't really changed. What we are seeing on the municipal side of things where we do definitely have deals go out to bid and they get renewed. It's very competitive right now, and I would say that's not new. It's the same as it has been, but it's always a challenge when you're the incumbent with a municipal deal to hang on to that contract in a renewal period, and while we've done very, very well in that for a long, long time that continues to be probably the area where there is the most competition because you're subjected to competitive bidding at renewal time.

That was helpful. And can you update us on the agreement with Parkmobile U.S.A. perhaps what type of sequential growth you're seeing in the business, if you could [indiscernible] (14:09) on the potential features that are in development.

Well, I think the initial phase of the Parkmobile business after we sold them Click & Park last year has been to integrate the Click & Park programs with the Parkmobile legacy systems, and that's ongoing right now. So we're nearing the end now the transition period with them. They definitely focused on a number of areas including taking advantage of all the new things that are going to be happening with connected cars in the future and driving transaction volume both through SP Plus locations and also through other parking operators. So their business I think is tracking fairly well according to expectation. It's still in early phase development, and I think our expectations for the future of that hasn't really changed from what we talked about when we announced the transaction last fall.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research. Your line is open, please go ahead.

Good morning. Just wondering if you could give us an update on the cost reduction initiatives you have in place, and if they're on track with the timing you expect? And this is just a general comment and what sort of pacing we should expect as you continue to work on those initiatives?

Yes, Kevin, this is Vance and I'll respond to that. So as we've kind of alluded to in previous calls, we're very, very focused on managing G&A and taking out cost overall with the company. And I think that we feel overall that we're seeing some progress. I think some of that progress as we alluded to in our prepared remarks we're starting to see kind of bleed through G&A, which is a good thing, so that's very positive. So that's a very positive sign. We expect more of that as we continue on down the road. In terms of the project themselves, the primary focus is in couple of key areas.

One is optimizing back-end processes at the company and we have a number of projects that are underway on that. I know we've talked about them previously. We feel that those are on track, and once again we're comfortable with where we're at and the progress that we're making. Secondly, is organizational realignment. We continue to look at that and basically have made some adjustments to our organization in previous months, and feel comfortable with where we're at with that and the progress we've made and the results that have been generated from that. Also we're very focused on getting better supplier terms through sourcing strategies and tactics that we're employing at the company for our both direct and indirect spend.

We feel that we've made good progress on that, and there is much more of that to come as we kind of head over the next couple of years. And then the last bucket is just kind of what I would call is tighter management and overall management of discretionary spend, and we've employed a number of things at the company to do a better job at that, and I think we're making real progress on that. And once again, I think you can start to see that [indiscernible] (17:25) through our financial results. So we feel at this point pleased with the progress we've made. We'll continue to see those things, the benefits of these initiatives, some of them will happen sooner than later, but will continue to be a focus over the next couple of years.

Okay. Great. And could you also talk about again your focus on driving same location growth, and update us on initiatives to do that in terms of cross-selling additional services, or whether it fits also with your operating performance group that you have out in the field visiting existing locations? Could you just talk about those couple of initiatives, please?

Happy to do that, Kevin. I think that the overall step series of things that we're doing, haven't changed too much, since we've last spoken. Clearly, our goal in all of our contracts is to make sure that we have escalation clauses built into the contract or incentive fees. And we have pricing structure that we put in place with clients where the client benefits by the things that we do for them, and we benefit by driving increased performance for them. So that's an important focal point for us to make sure that that's in place. Obviously, as I said in my earlier comments in answer to a question, it's important that a client sees us as delivering value to them on an ongoing basis because retention is in many ways more important than winning new business. We really hold on to what we have, and we need to drive additional profit to the client and meet their other objectives. And that's something that we have a lot of experience doing. But it means that we have to get in front of the clients with new ideas all the time.

We can't just keep doing the same old thing. And certainly the area of interactive marketing using our own websites, industry websites, or some of these new apps that people are using out there to try to attract attention and identify people that might want to park some place. Our goal is to be – position ourselves as an expert to our clients with our ability to help them optimize revenue and generate additional profits at their locations. So we, to that end we are bringing more resources into our company on the marketing side and making sure that in our major markets we have marketing resources on the ground that can work alongside our operating teams, and help them develop clever innovative programs to help drive our clients' business, and also for our lease locations to drive our own business where we're operating those as a lease. So I would say, that's probably the major new focus since we last spoken.

Clearly, we've expanded our facility maintenance business. We talked about the new contract in Toronto where we were operating parking and we now brought facility maintenance into it. That continues to be a growth area for us as we look for opportunities to sell facility maintenance services into our current client portfolio. So those are the main focal points on how we intend to drive gross profit growth. Obviously, I think it goes without saying, I'll say it anyway, for lease locations we have to pay attention continuously to parking rates and overtime and efficiency at those operations. And we have our operations excellence team out there looking at leases and large management contracts to ensure that we're driving performance on the ground every day as well because all those little steps add up and generate more gross profit growth for the company.

Okay. Perfect. What's your overall view of just the economic environment, demand environment that you're operating in right now?

I would it's fairly strong; it's a good economic backdrop. That is a bit of a double-edged sword in certain places. Certainly it's nice to see people out taking advantage of more confidence and coming into the city and staying at a hotel, maybe they weren't doing that before. And there's a little lot of activity in the major metropolitan areas of people coming in, driving et cetera. What we're seeing the flipside of it is a lot of development going on now, and so the existing parking facilities maybe they were surface lot or a garage nearing the end of its useful life, some of these are being torn down or repurposed into new buildings. And so there is a tremendous amount of that going on now in certain markets in Texas, in particular, in Chicago to an extent, and also in New York.

We're seeing a lot of [indiscernible] (22:08) to the certain extent. We haven't lost a lot of properties because of that, since we last spoke. But it is a risk area for us because a lot of our lease locations are subject to termination in the event that the property wants to be sold for redevelopment. I'd say so far in New York, what's been good for us is that other people's properties have been taken for development. And so those cars have to go somewhere, and so we're putting them in our facility. So that's why I said, strong economic backdrop, we'd also rather have that than any other economic condition. But it's not all upside, and it's something that we have to monitor very carefully.

Okay. That's an interesting take on it. Appreciate the comment. And I wanted to ask specifically about the Special Olympics Games. It sounds like there might be an interesting back story as to why you were brought in later. Were they having issues with the operations, or they needed someone to fix what was going on, or why didn't you immediately start and then why were you called in?

Well, we actually had a small consulting contract in advance of those events, and when we go in because of our vast experience in running parking and ground transportation for Olympic Games and Super Bowls and major, major events over the years, it's frequent that we are called in for some advice upfront. And when we are called in for advice upfront, we will do as much or as little as the client would like us to do. And I think in this particular case, we had a fairly modest contract in place. We were giving some upfront advice, so we were there on the ground on a limited basis when the games started. What the client saw was the need for some changes to their plans and their programs, and because of our ability not only to work in an environment successfully, but also draw on a fairly large organization of talented people, we were able to bring more resources in very quickly to try to help them with their plans. So any plan including plans we develop is going to be subject to change once you get going. And I think in this case, the client saw that there was the need for some additional help, and we were right there and ready and able to provide it.

Okay. That sounds great. I'll jump back in the queue. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti. Your line is open, please go ahead.

Hi, couple of points to follow up. First on the West Coast contracts you referenced, the locations that we watched you give up, couple of questions, [indiscernible] (25:09) management releases of both, number one. And number two, were those lost via bidding processes or contracts that came to an end, [indiscernible] (25:21) single, let's say not formal bidding processes?

Yeah, so yes, they were management contracts, and I think we've talked about these contracts in the past, it's been a little while. Essentially what we were doing is providing a person who'll be present at a surface lot for a bank branch, that was really the contract. And there's no revenue involved, these are fairly simple contracts, and they're not the kind of contracts that you would actually even seek to get if you were just getting one. And so the only reason why we went down the path of providing these services was because it was a portfolio. And we ran those contracts for some time. What we experienced over the time we ran them is that the client would add new locations, drop existing ones. There was a lot of change back and forth. They became very cost conscious, took some of the locations in-house, but ultimately in the end decided to bid out their portfolio and see what they could do.

And so we clearly when we're in that situation take a long hard look at what are we making, what do we have to do, and what's a fair price for what we're providing. I think we've talked before David, that we don't seek to be the low-cost provider of services; we seek to provide the best value. Our goal is to help clients drive their profit objectives, and that in our sweet spot is generally larger and more complex operations, like the Olympics we were just talking about or some of these larger municipal deals we're involved [indiscernible] (26:52) requires an array of skills to put an hourly employee in a booth, it doesn't require a complex set of skills. And so we just looked at and said, we're willing to do it, continue on in the relationship at a certain price, but below that if they want to go elsewhere that's okay and that's what happened.

Got you. Okay. So it was one where as presumably you just, rebidded, if you will, or maybe --

Well, we did rebid it, but we rebidded at a price that we're always looking at. Look we're a large organization, we have a lot of G&A, it requires costs to support any contract. We have accounting, processing, legal, risk management et cetera. We have supervision in the field. So we have all those things to consider. And so when we're looking at what it's going to take to make money running a certain contract relationship, we think about all of those things. And we think about those when we're making a bid on something as a new operator and also in a renewal scenario. And in this case, we looked at all the factors that I described and said, okay, here's what we think is a fair bid to provide these services. We think we've done a good job over the time we've had them. If the client decides, if they think someone else can do it for less or they want someone else to do it for less then, in a case like that we're comfortable with what we bid. And so in this case we didn't win.

Got you. Okay. And then I jumped on a tiny [indiscernible] (28:28), I'm not sure if you guys hit on it, but if you [ph] did or (28:31) if you can speak a little bit about the tax reversal.

Yes there was. Hi, David, this is Vance.

Hi.

There was a change in the state law or I'm sorry, in the City of New York tax law that basically allowed us to be able to reverse certain allowances that we had set up for deferred tax assets. And if you may recall in the first quarter of 2014 we had a similar type thing. That happened to be the state of New York, in this scenario just happened to be the City of New York City. So we were able to – it's a good thing, very positive we were able to reverse these allowances for deferred tax assets and so that's effectively what it was.

Got it. Good for you guys and bad for us, residents. Okay. Perfect. And then on a go forward, any significant change to how we should think about tax rate?

Nothing in addition to what we've kind of described as we kind of wrapped up the 2014 on that call, and then really, the way to think about it is, is that our cash tax rate is going to start to come and already has come in more alignment with our effective book rate. So that's what you're seeing now. Having said that, we have kind of the reversal of these reserves for deferred tax assets, which will help us from a cash tax standpoint down the road. And In an addition, we are also working on and have completed a lot of some tax restructuring projects, which will have some impact on lowering our cash tax rate as we head into kind of the next several years. And so that will somewhat offset the fact that we're paying a tax rate that's more in alignment with our book rate. But that's outside of that which we've talked about before, nothing else that we see into the future at this point.

Got you. And then one last if I may, just bigger picture, as we think about life sort of post central integration, are there any other big savings opportunities ahead of you that you now see, maybe you didn't see at the beginning? But have [indiscernible] (30:59) opportunities still in front of us where you think there could be some big saves?

Yeah, this is Vance. David, what I would say is that the projects that we kind of outline in the fourth quarter call, and that we just went over just a minute ago, which I think they kind of fit right squarely into that category of things. So for example, as we look at kind of what's the optimal organization to support our growth strategy and how we move forward, we've actually done some things certainly in the back half of 2014 and the beginning of 2015 to more appropriately align our organization, and we'll continue to look at that going forward, and we think that there are benefits certainly from that. So that would be one.

Secondly, I think also as we think about strategic sourcing, that's clearly what we think is a reasonably good opportunity that sits there, that was not necessarily wholly factored into the synergy expectation that we had when the companies came together. So we think that that presents a decent size opportunity as well, and something that we're very, very focused on. And then the optimization of back end processes at the company whether that's kind of going from two timekeeping systems to one as we look at kind of, at what we're going to do at monthly parking systems as we look at our systems overall. So we're very, very focused kind of everything is on the table as we think about cost reduction opportunities that exist. And a number of the things that we've come up with are outside of work or in addition to the scope that the company had seen when they put the two companies together. That's the way I would describe it.

And the only thing, if I could, David, just to add briefly to Vance's comment, particularly since you mentioned that you jumped on late. I did talk about in my remarks and not sure if you heard them, about some of the things we're doing in the area of risk management and safety, because we had some very, very good practices in place pre-merger. The integration process was a discretion in terms of having everybody focused on everything that we want them to focus on. And so one of the things that we've come back around to for 2015 is the opportunity to improve our safety practices, to drive down our total cost of risk. We've also brought in some new leadership in that area, and bring in some new ideas as well from the outside on ways to manage our insurance programs and our claim processing in new ways, and we've laid all of that out, I laid all that out in my comments. So as we look forward over the next 12 months to 24 months, we'll continue to expect to see improvement in our total cost of risk and that will drive some of our gross profit growth as well.

Perfect. Thank you both.

Thank you.

Thank you. And I'm showing a follow-up question from the line of Dan Moore with CJS Securities. Your line is open, please go ahead.

Thank you gentlemen, appreciate it. If this has been covered, I apologize, but just wanted to talk capital allocation. How long should we expect going forward to be in debt reduction mode? What leverage ratio would you want to achieve before you start looking at other areas of investment? And what will be your priorities, once we get there?

Yeah, Dan, this is Vance, so I'll respond initially. So a couple of things. One is, is that we are looking and evaluating those options. We went through some exercises to do that and assess what we think that could look like. Obviously, we were able to renegotiate our credit agreement, and with that came much more flexibilities that relates to the ability to repurchase shares, to do dividends, things of that nature when the time is right and when we feel like it's the right time to do that. So that, two things; one, we have a lot more flexibility now, that puts us in a position to really start thinking about those things. Two, we've started down that process of assessing the options that we think makes sense. And the third point would be, I think we feel comfortable leverage ratio for the company would be anywhere between two times to three times. We're just outside right on that three times a leverage ratio over the last couple of quarters. And so I think we're getting into a period where over the next few months, year in the next and into 2016 where we're going to be even more aggressively kind of looking at what those options look like, but that's the way that we're looking at it.

Maybe I can just add a little bit to that, Dan. First of all, we're always looking outside our business for opportunities to make investment, whether it's other parking companies that might become available for sale in our market or [ph] allied (35:56) businesses. As you know we do other things like facility maintenance, security et cetera. So we're always keeping a watching brief on what's going on out there, and looking for opportunities if they're there, so that's one important thing. The other is that, while we're probably at the – we're at the top end, but nearly there in our comfort zone in terms of leverage.

One of the things that it still needs to be wrapped up in 2015 are all of our legacy structure repair and indemnity issues. And we've talked before about this, and you see it in some of our adjusted numbers we're taking – we're spending some money now to wrap these things up hopefully by the early fall. So I think in terms of timing of doing anything, we start to think about stock buybacks or dividends or what we might do, it's the timing that Vance indicated. Part of that timing is driven by a desire to work our way through all of that and make sure that we know what we're dealing with. And I think we're moving along in a good way, but clearly we have some stuff to finish, and we have some issues to resolve before that's all put to bed, and hopefully that we'll be at that point by the end of the year.

Not too far in the horizon. It's great color. And then lastly in terms of M&A, are there specific technologies that you're looking at, that you might want to bring into the fold as you think about your capabilities that you want to have over the next few years?

I would say one of the things that's interesting going on right now is that, a lot of venture capital money is pouring into ideas. And so we've seen it with some of the on-demand, on the street valet businesses. We've seen it with these marketing websites that are out there. And just when you think that there is as many as there's going to be new ones pop up. And so we're trying to position ourselves as being a marketing experts and revenue optimization experts so we can help and advice our clients. And we think that's a better strategy than say, well let's acquire this or let's acquire that in the technology space because it's moving very rapidly. I think some of these businesses have the potential to be successful; others aren't going to make it. And so I think in terms of technology investment in that realm, the investment we made in Parkmobile by combining Click & Park with it was the right thing for us to do, and we're going to continue to work with them to make sure that the Parkmobile business is successful.

But I think beyond that for the moment, our focus is going to be on being technology experts in the marketing front, and then also on the technology integration front. We have a technology integration group where we can advise clients on the best technology to bring into their facilities. And again all the array of people that are providing technology for parking facilities are making new investment changes. Things are moving at a rapid pace, and again our goal is to be seen as an expert to engage with our clients or prospective clients and be able to advise them on the best options. And when we do do that there's an opportunity for us to earn consulting fees or other fees for assisting with those type of technology upgrades and integrations. We think that's a better strategy for us than aligning ourselves with one technology as an investor.

Got it. Thanks again for the color.

You're welcome.

Thank you. And I'm showing a follow-up question from the line of Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research. Your line is open, please go ahead.

Thanks. Just a couple of quick follow ups here. I did notice the non-routine structural repairs ticked up sequentially here. And as you look to wrap up things on that front towards the end of the year, do you expect or do you have any line of sight into any more significant costs coming through on that front on the second half?

I think the good news, Kevin, is that, the assortment of locations that needed some remedial work hasn't really changed much. We identified them fairly early post-merger, and began the process of trying to assess when needed to be done, what was required, what it might entail and what it would cost and then getting it scheduled. So we haven't had a lot of new things [indiscernible] (40:19) I'm trying to think of one right now, while I'm speaking with you. I don't think we've added any locations to the list over the last year or so. So it's a stable group of locations. The work is underway at all of them, or it's been completed already in some cases. So I don't think we're going to have any surprises at all as we move into the latter part of the year. But we need to get the work completed that's underway now, and are working very hard to make that happen by the end of the third quarter. Although a little bit of it may spill into early fourth quarter.

Okay. Thanks. And then debt did come down sequentially by about $9 million, but you had a big drop in interest expense. Just what was driving that?

Kevin, this is Vance. Really what would be driving that primarily would be the amended – and I'm assuming you're assuming year-over-year, is that how you're thinking about it?

Also sequentially the drop in interest expense as well as year-over-year.

Yeah. So the big thing is driving that in both cases is; one, as our debt comes down as you alluded to that's helping interest expense; and then secondly is, is the fact that we – with our new amended restructured credit agreement we got to lower interest rates across the grid. So both of those would result in the lower interest expense that you're seeing.

Okay. Right. That makes sense. And so we can expect this lower level as we move throughout the rest of the year.

Yes. And in fact, as we kind of further deleverage based on the amount of debt that we'll have, we'll be paying even lower interest expense. And then in addition as we further leverage or deleverage, our rate structure is tied to our leverage ratio. So in effect we'll be paying interest on lower debt, but we'll be paying it, hopefully [indiscernible] (42:22) at a lower rate as well.

Okay. All right. That's good to hear. Thanks.

Yeah.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. And I would like to turn the conference back over to Marc Baumann for any closing remarks.

Thanks, Michelle and thank you for joining us today and participating in our call. We're looking forward to an exciting second half of 2015, and look forward as well to speaking to you with our third quarter results. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.