corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2007 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Lisa, and I will be your operator for today. At this


time all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session toward


the end of this conference. [Operator Instruction] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded


for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Marc Baumann, Executive


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.


G.Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Lisa. And good morning everybody. Thank you for joining us. I am also your primary


Investor Relations contact, if you have a follow-up questions after the call. Welcome to our call for


the third quarter, and I hope you got a chance to review our earnings release, which went out last


night after the market closed. We also expect to file our 10-Q for the third quarter either tonight or


tomorrow. We will begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President, and


Chief Executive Officer and then I will answer or discuss rather some of the financials in a little


more detail. After that, we will open up the call for a Q&A session, as Lisa mentioned.


During the call we will make statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I would also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly


and annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website Standardparking.com and also at earnings.com.


There will be a replay available on either website for 30 days after the call.


With that I will turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Marc and good morning everyone. I am pleased that we have another strong quarter to


report. Pre-tax income is up 45% and pre-tax income per share is up 56% over a year ago. As we


have discussed significantly or consistently this year, we will continue to highlight pre-tax income


for 2007 as our effective tax rate for [inaudible] purposes increased from approximately 15% in last


year’s third quarter to 41% in this year’s third quarter, which impacts the year-over-year net income


and EPS comparisons somewhat unfairly. That being said, net income was flat at 4.5 million in the


third quarter of both years.


However due to the reduction in shares outstanding as a result of our stock repurchase program,


earnings per share increased by $0.03 to $0.47 per share in this year’s third quarter up from $0.44


last year. Cash taxes for both years were under 5%. As a result the company generated free cash


flow of 8.4 million in the third quarter, which is less than the 9.5 million generated in the third


quarter of 2006, primarily due to normal fluctuations and the timing of payments and collections in


markets spoken about those fluctuations quarter-after-quarter as long as I can remember doing


these call.


Taking a longer-term view, the company generated 22.4 million of free cash flow in the first nine


months of 2007, 2.1 million more than the same period last year while at the same time spending


2.2 million more in capital expenditures this year to date.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2007 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Revenue, excluding reimbursed management expenses is up 2% in the quarter. This relatively low


growth rate was primarily due to differences in the way revenue was recorded when leases convert


to management contracts. Revenue from same locations showed solid growth of 5%.


Our location retention rate continues to hover at about 90% for the twelve months ended this


September, which is below where we would like it to be but please note that less than 4% of our


trailing twelve-month gross profit came from terminated locations and I have also spoken about this


movement and I am not overly concerned with retention rate at 90% given the fact that some of the


contracts we exited in the last couple of quarters had multiple locations attached but with pretty low


returns to us. So, that is a more proper focus for us as we obtained gross profit from those locations


that we have.


Illustrating a change in our location count, as of the end of the third quarter of this year, we were at


2071 locations and at the same time last year at the end of September, we were at 2004 locations.


We continue to win new contracts across the country. We identified them in the release including


the loss of Harvard University contract but I would like to highlight some of the gains here. We were


awarded a five-year contract to provide parking and shuttle bus services at the Buffalo, Niagara


international airport, one of the nation’s fastest growing airports. We will manage in operations


consisting of 7,000 parking spaces and a fleet of 18 buses and we have had a serious of releases


out this about the gains that we have made in our airport niche, both in our core partner


competency as well as in managing transportation contracts at new airport.


In Los Angeles we were awarded the parking contract at the Grove, a 600,000 square foot retail


center with 3,500 parking spaces and three valet stations. In Salt Lake City we were awarded the


parking contract at the prestigious Gateway mixed-use development with 3,000 total spaces and


we added several real nice deals in New York, including the New York Marriott Financial Center


and a luxury residence on the Upper East Side, both in Manhattan. In New Rochelle we are


awarded the new Trump Plaza, which is a luxury residence and hotel. And in Westchester we were


awarded the new Ritz-Carlton.


It’s been a very, very active quarter for us. In addition to delivering on our organic growth target, we


completed for acquisitions, to be completed at the beginning of the quarter have been fully


integrated, and while we did start to generate profit in the quarter due to purchase accounting in


transaction cost, the impact on the quarter’s results were minimum. Excluding a $600,000 gain, we


reported related to one of those acquisitions. The two acquisitions we completed at the end of the


quarter are now in the process of being integrated and we issued a press release announcing those


acquisitions on October 1, so please refer to that release for additional detail.


Acquisitions will continue to be an important element of our growth strategy, not only can they


assist in expanding our existing operations but they also provide us with additional expertise that


enhances our ability to bring ancillary services to the market place. As we continue to grow both


organically an via acquisitions, we do not want to lose site of our core responsibility of delivering


excellence to our clients. To ensure that we continue to focus on our clients needs, we have


appointed Thomas Hagerman to the position of Chief Operating Officer of Standard Parking. Tom


reports directly to me in his overall responsibility for supervising our North American operations.


So in summary, I will start with a message about our progress and momentum, we have good


underlying business growth and we are continuing to demonstrate that we have a business model


that helps us to shield the many economic fluctuations by virtue of our contract structure,


geographic diversity, and market component. We continue to look for additional acquisitions to


complement and augment our existing business, and we continue to generate solid free cash flow


that we have been selectively channeling in to three areas, stock repurchases, acquiring


businesses, and repayment of our debt all with an eye towards enhancing shareholder value.