corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp
 
STAN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: [Operator Instructions]. I’d now like to turn the call over to Mr. Marc Baumann. Mr.


Baumann you may begin.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Denise and good morning everybody. I am Marc Baumann, the Chief Financial Officer of


Standard Parking and your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to our conference call for


the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings


announcement, which was released before the market opened yesterday and although that was a


little bit unusual, doing it early, I just wanted to let you know that our usual practice in the future will


be to hold the conference on the same day as we release earnings.


We expect to file the 10-K for 2004 by March 18. We'll begin our call today with a brief overview by


Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and then I will discuss some of the financial


information in more detail. After that, we will open up the call for Q&A and I wanted to tell you that


during the call we will make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


Company's strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the Company's operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our third quarter release, which is incorporated by


reference for purposes of this call, it's also in our fourth quarter release. I would like to refer you to


disclosures made in the Company's quarterly and annual filings with the SEC. And finally, before


we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the internet at


www.fulldisclosure.com and also in our web site www.standardparking.com. There will be a replay


available on either web site for 30 days after the call. With that, I would like to turn the call over to


Jim


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Marc and good morning everyone, and welcome to our fourth quarter conference call. I


look forward to telling you about the quarter and our performance for the 2004 calendar year.


Net income for the full year 2004 was $2.6 million or $0.42 per diluted share, based on


approximately 6.3 million weighted average shares outstanding during the period. This performance


exceeded the guidance that we issued in August of 2004 of between $0.25 and $0.35 per share. As


you will recall, we also provided pro forma guidance for the year to present a clearer picture of the


Company's operating results free from the impacts of the mid-year IPO.


For the year, pro forma for the IPO and income taxes, net income reached $9.4 million or $0.89 per


diluted share, which is at the high end of our guidance range of between $0.84 and $0.91. Total


parking revenues for the fourth quarter and the full year excluding reimbursement of management


contract expense were up approximately 8% reflecting our success in adding new locations and


growing revenue at existing locations. We ended the year with 1,896 locations, a net increase of 35


for the year and 20 for the quarter.


During the fourth quarter, we entered into contracts to manage parking facilities for two major


medical institutions in Brooklyn, New York. Standard Parking was awarded a contract by


Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center to manage two parking locations with a total of 650 spaces. And


the Maimonides Medical Center selected the Company to manage its multi-level garage and


parking lot operations, which encompass 1,100 spaces. These new additions to the Company's
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp
 
STAN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


portfolio reflect the success of our strategy to focus on the hospital market, which is increasingly


outsourcing non-core operations.


Also in the New York Metropolitan area, Standard Parking completed agreements with a regional


real estate management company to manage multiple garage and parking lot locations comprising


1,300 spaces on its behalf. In Boston, Standard Parking was awarded a management contract for


the 2,300 space Government Center Garage, the largest garage in the city's downtown business


district.


During the fourth quarter we also made good progress on existing contracts. The New Orleans pay-


and-display parking meter contract that we previously announced came on line as planned and has


been profitable from the start. Also the turnaround in the Honolulu Park/Air Express operation is


another strong positive going forward.


The momentum in our operating performance is evident in our financials for the fourth quarter


despite the impacts of some one-time charges as net income reached $4.3 million or $0.40 per


diluted weighted average share. Gross profit was $16.9 million, up 3% from 2003's fourth quarter. A


number of factors impacted the fourth quarter of 2004 gross profit. The Company recorded a


$254,000 charge related to increasing the reserve associated with a long-term receivable and a net


charge of a $157,000 primarily relating to additional rent payments that were partially offset by the


recovery of taxes. Also consistent with previous Company guidance, significant favorable changes


to loss reserves recognized in fourth quarter of 2003 did not reoccur in 2004. As loss estimates


were more consistent with actual loss experience. Gross profit for the full year 2004 increased by


approximately 5% to $63.9 million from $60.7 million a year earlier. The 2004 results were impacted


by a $700,000 charge, related to increasing the reserve associated with a long-term receivable.


In addition, as I just mentioned, the favorable changes to loss reserves that were recognized in the


fourth quarter of 2003 did not reoccur. Standard Parking's performance in our first 2 quarters as a


public company clearly underscores the predictability and reliability of our business model. From an


earnings point of view, we met or exceeded the expectations that were communicated to our


investors at the time of our public offering. While our results were excellent, some unfavorable one


time items I previously discussed, the cancellation of the National Hockey League season and the


severe storms that hit the East Coast in the fourth quarter dampened what would have been


otherwise an even stronger performance.


At the core of this business model is a set of business strategies that have been designed to


emphasize lower risk, higher margin management contracts that produce consistent earnings and


stable cash flow. With approximately 85% of the company’s locations operating under this format,


the impact on operations of external factors such as weather is significantly moderated. Maintaining


the integrity of the sizable amounts of cash flowing through Standard Parking’s locations with


enhanced systems and dedicated internal audits is another hallmark of the Company's operating


strategy. Standard Parking’s commitment to information technology has resulted in state-of-the art


client reporting systems that also distinguish the Company from many of our competitors.


Since the IPO was completed, our competitive position in the marketplace has been further


enhanced by a significantly improved capital structure, and the ability to leverage what was already


a highly successful business model. In addition, we now have the resources to accelerate


investments in infrastructure that are designed to enhance our operating systems. Thereby


increasing efficiencies and further leveraging general and administrative expenses. These


advantages will serve us well as we pursue opportunities to increase our presence in cities like


New York and San Francisco, where our ability to demonstrate the positive impact of the


management contract structure to a property owner’s bottom-line has proven to be compelling.


Outsourcing is also playing an increasingly important role for us. Municipalities are continuing to


request RFPs for parking related activities that they have traditionally managed on their own.