corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2008 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Erica, and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer for Standard Parking. You may proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Erica, and good morning everybody. As Erica just said, I’m Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking, and I am your primary investor relations contact. Welcome to


our conference call for the second quarter of 2008.


I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings announcement which was released


after the market closed yesterday. We expect to file the 10-Q for the second quarter tomorrow.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview of by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer, and then I will discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that,


we’ll open the call up for any questions that you may have.


During this call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


Company’s strategy, operations, and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the Company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the Company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


internet, and can be accessed on our website standardparking.com and also at earnings.com.


There will be a replay available on either website for thirty days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Marc. Good morning everyone. Thanks for taking the time to sit in with us this morning.


Given the current economic environment I am obviously very proud of what our team achieved this


past quarter. We maintained and increased our level of both location and gross profit retention at


91 and 97% respectively.


While we begin to feel some fallout from decreased travel and higher gas and utility prices in some


of our leased and reverse management contract locations, so far the economy’s effect on our


business has been minimized because the vast majority of our contracts are fixed fee management


agreements that we’ve described in the past, call after call, in terms of our base business model.


We do believe current economic pressures are having an impact on some of our clients so we are


always reviewing staffing levels and operating expenses to ensure efficient operations and


maximizing profits returned to our clients in this environment.


We are seeing more of our contracts go out for bid as real estate owners and property managers


seek to maximize those returns and while on one hand it does expose more of our contracts to
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


competitive bidding, on the other hand we see it as an opportunity for us to leverage our operating


and revenue control expertise to win new business and that’s been evidenced by the new business


wins that we’re continuing to have.


During the second quarter we came to a final resolution on our claim for damages incurred from


Hurricane Katrina, Marc and I talked with some detail about that last quarter, while receiving a final


settlement of $2 million. This benefit net of less favorable changes in insurance loss reserve


estimates related to prior years and higher costs for post retirement benefits versus a year ago


contributed $0.03 to the increase in earnings per share.


Our same location gross profit increased by 2% this year over last year’s second quarter, a solid


performance in what is clearly a difficult operating environment for the reasons I mentioned earlier.


We continued to add new business during the quarter. Among other wins and in the second quarter


we began operating a large portfolio of 19 equity office property locations in Southern California.


We were also awarded a multiyear lease for College Park garage in Toronto. The College Park


development covers an entire city block and includes residential, commercial, retail and office


space. On the day we took over operations we installed new pay on foot equipment to fully


automate the parking facility.


The business continues to generate healthy free cash flow and generated free cash flow of 11.3


million in the second quarter of 2008, an increase of 2.5 million over last year. Free cash flow was


used to repurchase stock and repay debt.


As we announced previously we have leveraged our strong relationship with our banking group


allowing us to put in place an amended credit facility during the quarter that gives us 75 million of


additional capacity as well as extends the maturity by two years. Getting this deal done in the


current banking environment is a testament to the confidence our lenders have in our company and


our business model.


Given our results to date we reaffirm our 2008 guidance of earnings per share in the range of $0.95


to $1.05. Free cash flow is expected to remain in the range of 27 million to 30 million.


With that I’ll return the call back to Marc so that he can lead you through a more detailed discussion


of the quarterly and first half financial performance and I’ll talk a little bit more about the business in


this economic cycle when we come back to the Q&A session.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Hello again. Let’s take a look now at our financial results for the quarter. Total revenues for the


second quarter of 2008, excluding reimbursement of management contract expense, increased by


11.9 million, or 18% to $76.4 million from $64.5 million in the same period a year ago. The Katrina


settlement contributed to 3% of the year-over-year growth. Gross profit for the second quarter of ‘08


increased by 12% to 23.5 million from 21.1 million a year ago. Again the Katrina settlement


contributed to this growth and added about 8% of that year-over-year growth.


As Jim mentioned, on the same location basis, gross profit increased 2% year-over-year. G&A


expenses for the second quarter of ‘08 increased 11% to 12 million from 10.8 million in the second


quarter of 2007. Increased spending for productivity enhancing IT initiatives and the annual stock


grants to our Board of Directors of almost $250,000 plus some higher post retirement benefit costs


of $400,000 were partially offset by a $400,000 recovery of cost from the Katrina settlement. G&A


as a percentage of gross profit declined slightly to 51.1% for this year’s second quarter compared


with 51.5% last year.