corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2008 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Dan, and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann, Executive


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Dan, and good morning everybody. As Dan just said, I’m Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking, and I’m also your primary investor relations contact.


Welcome to our conference call for the third quarter of 2008. I hope all of you’ve had a chance to


review our earnings announcement, which was released after the markets closed yesterday. We


expect to file our 10-Q for the third quarter tomorrow. We’ll begin our call today with a brief


overview of by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and then I’ll discuss some


of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we’ll open the call up for questions that you may


have.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


Company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the Company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the Company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


internet, and can be accessed on our website standardparking.com and also at earnings.com.


There’ll be a replay available on either website for thirty days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Marc. Good morning everyone and welcome to our call. We put out the – as Marc


referenced, we put our press release last night. I trust that most of you have been to able to look at


that and if you haven’t I suggest that you do as I’m going to try to avoid being redundant in terms of


the information, the more detailed information that we put out in that release, and just maybe spend


the time today talking a little bit about what’s going on with our business and the business as the


results of those conditions in the economic environment that are affecting us today.


Again, obviously we’re very pleased with the third quarter’s results over the activity experienced a


year ago. We – as I’ve said in the previous calls, we have worked very, very hard over the last six


or seven years to create a business model that could prepare itself for a period of time as we are


experiencing now, where the business would be resilient. A focus on a real solid quality product


that we offer to our clients, as well as, the creation of a portfolio of contracts, which is risk averse.


So obviously, we’re being tested, that business model is being tested throughout this condition and


the results that we posted this quarter and hope to enjoying in a move-forward basis are reflective


of – I think the successful creation of the business model that we set forth to do several years ago.


As such, as a result of the product side of the business we continue to retain business at a higher


level than goal, we’re retaining about 90 to 91% of our contracts these days and that remains, we’re


also retaining 96% of the gross profit from those same stores, which again by point of reference
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 6, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


means we’re keeping those contracts that are more valuable than those that we’re losing. In


addition we’re writing a significant amount of new business again this year as a testament to our


product offering. We expect that by the end of the year we will have written more new business in


this calendar year than in any year previous to that. And again, the good job that our business


development people do in terms of creating pipelines and following up on those pipelines have


been terrific and I think they certainly have their jobs aided by the quality of products that we bring


to our clients and our ability to make – generate more revenue to our clients, as a result of the


service offerings we have talked about.


Just some examples of those contract wins that we’ve had just this quarter, and there are some


terrific wins and several worth mentioning: We started operations during the middle of October at


the Denver International Airport, which is one of the largest parking operation in the world with over


40,000 parking spaces. We also just recently started at the Richmond Airport, just a week or so


ago, and again that’s about 7,000 – more than 7,000 parking spaces as well as some shuttle work


that we’ll be doing, just with – my hat’s off to our airport business development team. Obviously


when you get into these larger airports, there is a long lead time required in terms of bringing those


new contracts to the board and I’m real proud of the job that are folks did in securing those.


Also worth mentioning, is the start-up of our services at the St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in


New Jersey, two campuses there and about 1,200 parking spaces for us to manage. And again


you’ve heard us talk about our goals as they relate to winning institutional campus business,


whether they’re universities or medical center campuses or airport campuses where we can offer


our wider package of services to those sorts of clients. So we think that those issues, winning new


business and retaining the business we have – coupled with the fact that our portfolio tends to be,


for the most part, risk averse and have resulted in the numbers that you saw this quarter.


Those issues are mitigated certainly by what’s going on. We have a segment of our portfolio where


we have reverse management contracts and leases; about 10%, 10% to 11% of our contracts are


leases. And certainly the downturn in the economy has affected the performance of the cars that


are parking within those sorts of environments at our leases. And again, we have leases


predominantly at airports and we have leases predominantly and management contracts in the


hotel sector. Now you’ve heard me in the past talk about the downturn in those sectors, specifically,


but I think that the story’s a little better told by saying: because we have airports and hotels and


leases and reverse management contracts as opposed to retail and office buildings and residential,


condominium complexes and things like that where we have mostly cost-plus management


contracts we tend to focus more on airports and hotels and these calls and that might be somewhat


away from an overall statement about the economy. If I had lots of office building leases, for


instance, in New York or Chicago, or Boston or L.A. where we’ve seen the vacancy rates increase,


I suspect that the impacts would have been similar to what we’re seeing at the hotels and airports. I


think that the general downturn in the economy certainly would have impacted us in any event at


those locations where we have leases and reverse management contracts. Again, because they


represent a relatively small component of our contract mix, our business model survived and tends


to be rather resilient in this case and the growth that you’ve seen us experience year-over-year


during this cycle is again the result of the new business that we’re writing, high retention rates, the


quality of the product in building the portfolio as we have, the last several years. So, I think that


adds some flavor and some color to the overall statements that we’ve made in this press release


and what we’ll talk about on the call this morning.


Obviously, what we do in this sort of an economic environment is take a very hard look at costs; not


only our own G&A – our own SG&A here in Chicago and across the country, which we’ve taken a


look at and made some adjustments for, but most importantly those expenses at those leases in


reverse management contracts as well as though pass-through management contracts where it


effects ourselves and our bottom line for our clients. So, taking a hard look at staffing requirements


at those hotels and at those airports and where we have leases and where we can cut staff in a


cost-plus environment is an important exercise that we’ve gone through this quarter to make sure