corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2007 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tim and I will be your operator for today. [Operator


Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Marc Baumann, Chief Financial Officer of


Standard Parking. Please proceed sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Tim and good morning to everyone. As Tim just mentioned, I am Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking and I am also your primary investor relation’s contact. I would


like to welcome you to our conference call for the second quarter of 2007. I hope you all had a


chance to review our earnings announcement, which was released after the market closed


yesterday like to file our 10Q for the second quarter either later today or tomorrow.


We will begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer and then I will discuss some of the financials in a little more details. After that we


will open the call up for a Q&A session, as Tim mentioned. During the call we will make some


statements that will be considered forward-looking statements regarding the company’s strategy,


operations, and financial performances. Those statements are subject to many uncertainties in


convictions in business environment. I refer you to the complete forward-looking statements


disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference by purposes of this call. I


would also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and annually filings,


with the Security and Exchange Commissions.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


internet and can be accesses on our website at standardparking.com and also at earnings.com.


There will be a replay available on either website for 30 days after the call. With that I will turn the


call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Marc. Good morning everyone. I am obviously extremely proud of our teams’ second


quarter performance as we completed our third year as a public equity company.


Pre-tax income is up 45% to 7.3 million for the second quarter of 2007 from 5 million at same point


last year. We will continue to highlight pre-tax income for the remainder of this year as our affected


tax rate increased from 14%, from last year, to 40% this year, which impacts the year-over-year net


income and earnings per share comparisons. Cash taxes are still about 5% for both years on year-


over-year basis. On a per share basis, pre-tax income is up 53% compared to the second quarter


of 2006.


That being said, net income was 4.4 million in the second quarter of this year unchanged from a


year ago. Fully closing expecting the gap due to the previously mentioned changed in our affected


tax rate. Due to the reduction in shares outstanding is a result of our stock repurchase program.


Earnings per share increased by $0.02 to $0.45 per share in this year’s second quarter from $0.43


last year. The company generated free cash flow of 8.8 million, in the second quarter, of this year,


which is less than the 13.6 billion generated in the second quarter of 2006. As Mark and I


discussed previously, free cash flow can and does fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-


year due to normal fluctuations in the timing of payments, collections and certain accrual.


Taking a longer-term view, the company generated 14 million in free cash flow in the first half of


2007 as compared with a 10.8 million that we generated in the first half of last year. While reported
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


revenue, excluding reimbursed management expenses, was down slightly in the second quarter of


2007 compared with the prior year’s second quarter. This was primarily caused by the conversion


of lease contracts that management agreements. We had several portfolios of those in the Central


division and the West division that converted from UBIT leases or leases to management contracts


this year. That conversion -- so in short of that conversion revenue, from same locations, showed


solid growth of 6%.


We had 29 net locations during the quarter descended but our retention rate just slightly by 1% for


the 12 month ended June 30, 2007 from 90% for the 12 month ended June 30, 2006. However,


after examining the timing of the contract losses that affected the contract retention rates this


quarter, we believe we should be able to continue to post 90+% location retention rate for the


remainder of the year.


An interesting statistic that you will hear us talk about when we talk about retention in the future is


that though are location retention rate was 89%, our gross profit retention rate, from same location,


generators was 97%. So only 3% of our trailing twelve-month gross profit came from terminated


locations.


We continue to win contracts across many of the markets we serve. Some recent airport wins


include the Dallas Fort Worth Employee Shuttle Service, which adds to the consolidated car rental


shuttle we already operate there and have been since 2000. This new operation will move 2.5


million passengers using a fleet of more than 30 buses. Portland International Airport, in Oregon,


will be added to our portfolio for valet and shuttle services. We also provide parking operations and


management services there and we will be adding, as I said, a valet component and a shuttle


component at that airport. And we were successful in winning the T.F. Green State Airport in


Providence, Rhode Island were we will manage a parking at the airport consisting of 7,000 spaces


spread out over two multi level garages and two surfaces.


Other key wins, during the quarter included, the Women’s Hospital of Texas where we will provide


traditional parking management at 3 garages and two services blocks as well valet services,


customer on-site transportation, employee shuttle and provide some maintenance services.


Thomas Property Group, a leading real estate concern, with whom we have had a historical


relationship, in California, awarded us five [ph] in the central business district in Austin, Texas.


And here in Chicago, we have reassumed management of the parking operations at the landmark


John Hancock Center. This went along with our other operations along Michigan Avenue giving us


a formidable and controlling presence of the parking operation on the Magnificent Mile.


Over the last several quarters, we have been discussing our desire to do strategic acquisition that


will enhance our competitive position and our existing core market or help us develop into new core


markets. We are pleased to be able to report that we completed two acquisitions in July. These


two acquisitions are to be expected to have minimal earnings per share impact this year due to


purchasing accounting and transaction costs as well as the timing of the year. We are already into


the third quarter. But they will -- are expected to generate around $600,000 in a stabilized year


environment combined in gross profit on an annualized basis, as I mentioned.


Our first acquisition was for 13 valet locations, from a competitor. We’ve been in the Hawaiian


market for over 50 years and this acquisition will increase our market share in that core city. We


also acquired the contract right to 5 locations in the greater Las Angeles area, from a company that


was partially owned by our executive vice president for Western operations and that executive


president originally came to us in 1998 when we purchased his company and this completes the


purchase of properties that were controlled by that related party. We were already the operator at


these locations and will now receive additional income as result of the purchase of these contract


rights.