Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vance Cushman Johnston — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive VP, SP Plus Corp.
G. Marc Baumann — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, SP Plus Corp.
Nate J. Brochmann — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
Robert Majek — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Marc Riddick — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Kevin Mark Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2016 SP Plus Corporation Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call may be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer at SP Plus. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Charlotte, and good morning, everybody. As Charlotte just said, I'm Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer at SP Plus. Welcome to the conference call for the second quarter of 2016. I hope all of you had a chance to review our earnings announcement that was released last evening.

We'll begin our call today with a brief overview by Marc Baumann, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Then I'll discuss our financial performance in a little more detail. After that, we'll open up the call for a Q&A session.

During the call, we'll make some remarks that will be considered forward-looking statements, including statements as to our 2016 financial guidance; and statements regarding the company's strategies, plans, intentions, future operations and expected financial performance.

Actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties or other factors, including those described in our earnings release issued yesterday, which is incorporated by reference for purposes of this call and is available on our SP Plus website. I would also like to refer you to the risk factor disclosures made in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the Internet, and that a replay will be available on our SP Plus website for 30 days from now.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Marc.

Thanks Vance and good morning everyone. I'm Marc Baumann, the Chief Executive Officer of SP Plus and I'd like to welcome everyone to our call, discussing the results of our second quarter and first half of 2016. We're very pleased with our strong bottom-line performance, where continued execution on cost reduction initiatives helped fuel 7% growth in adjusted EBITDA and when coupled with reduced interest expense drove 17% growth in adjusted EPS in the second quarter.

We saw a solid gross profit performance across most geographic markets and verticals, as evidenced by 4% gross profit growth at same operating locations. We were able to achieve this same location growth, despite the impact of some renewals, where we're now operating at a lower level of gross profit under the renewal terms and some softening in the hospitality vertical in certain geographies, primarily from reduced parking utilization rates.

Overall gross profit growth was tempered, however by a significant year-over-year increase in health benefit costs and to a lesser degree by the impact of some recent terminations, particularly in the airport and off-airport verticals.

We've already taken some steps to address the rising cost of healthcare and we should see the impact of some of these changes benefit the second half of the year. There are other changes that will be implemented for 2017, which we anticipate would further reduce future healthcare costs.

In terms of location retention and our decreased location count, we recently made the decision to terminate one commercial contract in the New York market, where we determined that the gross profit was inadequate to the level of resource investment. While the gross profit loss was marginal, that contract was comprised of over 200 locations. The loss of this contract is the primary reason for the drop in location count, as well as the decrease in the location retention rate to 87% as of Q2 this year, from 90% as of Q1.

Excluding the voluntary loss of this portfolio, our location retention in Q2 would have been a very strong 93%. We also recently ceased operations at a couple of off-airport locations in Los Angeles, which are being redeveloped. On the positive side, we're continuing to write new business at a steady rate and, for the first six months of the year, have exceeded last year's record pace.

Some of these wins which we also highlighted in last night's release span across vertical and geographic markets and include a contract to provide facility management, maintenance, security and customer service support to the City of Vancouver, Washington at the Vancouver Center Garage.

We've also won a consulting deal with Colorado State University in Colorado where we'll work closely with the university to develop its parking management program. We also added or retained several marquee properties to our hotel portfolio including the Hyatt Regency in Downtown Minneapolis, the Westin Georgetown in the District of Columbia and the Ritz-Carlton in Denver.

I'd like to briefly comment on a few other important initiatives. First of, we continue to be very focused on ramping up our operations at the MGM Resorts Hotel in Las Vegas and are looking to further expand in that market. Secondly, we remain committed to driving down the total cost of risk through safety and loss mitigation programs.

Finally, I'm pleased with the progress we've made in our cost improvement initiatives. I know that Vance will touch on this in more detail, but it's great to see that we're able to continue to identify and successfully execute cost reduction initiatives.

In summary, we've made good progress in our initiatives and remained focused on improving top line and bottom line results, generating increased free cash flow and driving shareholder value. To that end, as we previously announced, our board of directors authorized a $30 million stock repurchase program and we begin repurchasing shares in the open market at the end of June.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Vance to lead you through a more detailed discussion of our financial performance during the quarter.

Thanks, Marc, and hello, everybody, again. I'd like to spend a few minutes reviewing our financial results in more detail.

Second quarter 2016 adjusted gross profit decreased slightly by $400,000 or 1% over the same period of 2015, while gross profit at same operating locations increased by 4% in the second quarter, we saw a $500,000 increase in health benefit cost relative to last year and also felt the impact of some recent contract terminations, which Marc mentioned in his earlier comments. On the G&A side, we continue to do a very good job managing G&A cost in the second quarter. Adjusted G&A for the second quarter of 2016 decreased by $2 million or 8% over the second quarter of 2015.

The decrease was largely due to comp and benefit decreases, resulting from recent changes to our organization as well as a decrease in our 2016 performance-based compensation accrual in addition to a overall tighter cost controls. We continue to make good progress on a number of cost reduction initiatives that we expect will continue to positively impact our results going forward.

Driven by strong cost controls, adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2016 was $24.3 million, an increase of $1.6 million or 7% compared to the same period of 2015. Resulting adjusted EPS for the second quarter of 2016 was $0.34 as compared to $0.29 in the same period of last year, an increase of 17% SG&A reductions and reduced net interest expense contributed to the year-over-year growth.

Touching briefly on the year-to-date results, adjusted gross profit for the first half of 2016 decreased $3.4 million or 4% over the same period of 2015. The year-over-year decline was primarily due to an increase in health benefit cost in 2016, as well as a smaller favorable adjustment for prior year casualty loss reserve estimates in the first half of 2016, as compared to the first half of 2015. Certain contract terminations and renewals that Marc previously discussed, also contributed to the year-over-year decrease.

Year-to-date 2016 adjusted G&A was $44.3 million, a decrease of $3.6 million or 8% from the same period of 2015. This was mostly driven by the same factors I discussed for the second quarter. Resulting adjusted EBITDA for the first half of 2016 was $39.4 million, unchanged from the same period of 2015. Adjusted EPS for the first half of 2016 was $0.44, $0.02 better than the same period of 2015, also on an adjusted basis.

The company generated adjusted free cash flow of $14 million in the first half of 2016, as compared to $5.5 million in the first half of 2015. Continued focus on receivables and payables management, lower interest expense resulting from the company's renegotiated credit agreement in 2015, as well as lower cash tax payments along with the receipt of proceeds from an asset sale and a contract termination benefited 2016 adjusted free cash flow. We remain focused on driving higher free cash flow through improved operating performance and working capital management.

Based on results of the first half of 2016 and our expectations for the remainder of the year, we remain comfortable with our full year outlook of adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $88 million to $93 million, adjusted earnings per share to be in the range of $1.16 to a $1.26, and adjusted free cash flow to be in the range of $40 million to $46 million.

That concludes our formal comments. I'll turn the call back over to Charlotte to begin the Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Nate Brochmann from William Blair. Your line is now open.

Yes. Good morning, guys. How are you?

Good morning, Nate.

Good morning, Nate.

So, wanted to ask a little bit, just in your press release, you talked about getting some renewal pressure, I wanted to ask a little bit further in terms of what does that mean in terms of whether that's pricing pressure or some different competitive dynamics?

Yeah. I'd be glad to answer that, Nate. I think it's primarily legacy deals that are coming up for renewal. So as you know, particularly in our world where we merge Central and Standard together, we have quite a few legacy deals, particularly legacy leases, so a number of those come up all the time, and in some cases, we can improve on the financial performance of those legacy leases. In other cases, they have to go the other way because essentially we're talking about rent resetting the market. That's the primary factor. I don't think the competitive set out there is right now is causing any real change in our pricing picture.

Okay. So is that just more of every year having to offer a little bit more value for those customers, or kind of bringing that pricing down in terms of the value proposition or, again, is there, as you talked about in terms of just something going on in the environment where you don't have that pricing strength?

Yeah. This is really not about what the consumers are paying for pricing. We're seeing fairly strong economic conditions throughout North America, and I would say generally don't have any difficulty putting up pricing that consumers are paying for parking, whether it's for transient parking or monthly parking. So I don't think that environment has changed at all, it's very similar in 2016 to 2015. What we're talking about here is really has to do with what we're paying in the case of leases and rents to the people owned properties, leased properties.

Got it.

And when those contracts come up for renewal and sometimes, they've had fixed rents for many, many years, they come up for renewal, they then have to reset to market. That can be a positive reset or a negative reset. In some cases, our legacy deals we're paying over market rents so they reset down to market and that's a good thing. In other cases, they reset up to market and that's not a good thing.

Got it. Okay. Thank you for explaining that. And then in terms of just – again, I think this is something that I kind of asked on a lot of several calls here over the last year or so. But in terms of getting through those "unprofitable" contracts and kind of still weeding those out, I mean, do you feel that you're getting into the later innings and all those? And I know that some of those last are at long terms so it's not like they ever going to go away any time soon. But do you feel like you're nearing kind of the end of the road on that at all?

I'd say, we're probably in the middle of the game now if we were using baseball as an analogy. There's a couple of big ones that you've another year or two to go. But certainly, if you were to take a three of four-year view, I would say, we review through the bulk of them. If not almost all of them at that point. But what we're seeing is not surprising us at all. And bear in mind too, many of the legacy deals, that while there are many legacy deals with above market rents, there are many legacy deals with above market rents. And so, these things go both ways. We're right now experiencing a couple of large ones and it doesn't take any better resetting to market and that's having the impact we described.

Okay. And then just one last quick question, just in terms of kind of the pipeline of opportunities. Obviously, you guys always doing a nice job of kind of winning a few new deals. How does some of the bigger opportunities look like either in the municipality world or some of the other various end markets? It still seems like there's a lot of potential there and just wondering kind of what the trajectory looks like of some of those opportunities.

Yeah. If I think a number of the verticals that we've identified for the last few years with potential, continue to show that potential. So, first and foremost, it's hospitality. And while we touch on the fact in our comments that some hotels in some parts of the country are experiencing a little softness in activity, and that could be the Uber effect or just localized condition. We still see lots of receptivity by hospitality owners and management companies to outsource hospitality to people like us. So, we think there's plenty of growth opportunity there.

Turning to the municipal space, I think the pent-up pressures that we've talked about, it's the reason for them to want to outsource, namely pension liabilities and other budget pressures are there, if anything, they've increased and accelerated over the past few years. So, I think you will still continue to see us be very, very active in trying to capture municipal clients. We announced this last quarter, not in the current quarter, we took over the city of Annapolis, Maryland. We operate many, many other municipalities.

And I think they're very, very receptive, both to somebody coming in and be able to maximize revenue through strong controls and advising them in pricing, through a best control and managing labor, but also, bringing new technology, and not just new meter technology, but technology so that residents can buy permits online or people can find parking through their mobile apps. And so, we're very active in that space and I think that remains a fairly compelling reason for any municipality to consider outsourcing to us.

Okay. Great. I appreciate all the time. I'll turn it over.

Thanks, Nate.

Thanks, Nate.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dan Moore from CJS Securities. Your line is now open.

Good morning. This is actually Robert Majek, filling in for Dan today.

Robert, hello. Good morning.

The retention rate declined to 87% this quarter. What drove the decision to part ways with that one large client and how profitable is that contract? And what do you expect the retention rate to trend over the next several quarters?

Sure. I mean, it was a marginally profitable client. So I think, we used the word minimal, but we're talking about an insignificant amount of money. And as we look at what it took to support this client relationship including our back office and support resources, we just said, for what we're making on that contract, the cost benefit just doesn't work for us as a company. Unfortunately, there was a lot of locations and we weren't actually managing any parking operations. We were really managing billing for monthly parking.

So there was a lot of locations in our system and so it catches our attention obviously when we have a termination like that, but we're not into building market share for its own sake. Our goal is to have profitable contracts where we can bring our rate of services, grow those services at a given location, and we just didn't see that as a kind of forward picture for this contract.

Obviously, as I said in my remarks, excluding that, our retention rate was 93%, which has actually picked up a bit from where we've been over the last couple of years. I would say our goal remains the same and that's to be in the sort of 92% to 93% for location retention on an ongoing basis, and I think that's a very realistic goal for our company.

Thank you. And secondly from me. You called out an increased claims expense for self-insured in Q2. What are the implications with that trend for the second half of the year? And what steps are you taking to kind of address that trend?

Yeah. I think, in terms of, if you're talking about healthcare as opposed to casualty, I think on casualty the story was actually a positive one. It's just that on a year-on-year basis, it was more positive last year. So we always expect the casualty to over time be a positive contributor to our gross profit. But on the healthcare front, we're only in our second year now of self-insured healthcare and so we're still, what I would say, tweaking our ability to manage healthcare cost well.

We noticed that in last year, we had – there was some opportunities for us to improve for 2016. We put some steps in place to guide people to appropriate plans where we felt like the cost benefit providing that healthcare coverage made sense. We have been surprised at a number of large claims that we've had to contend with in 2016, but we've taken some steps already that we've already implemented, which we think is going to move that curve in the second half.

So, I would say our expectation for the second half is that we're not going to experience the same magnitude of negative variances that we saw in the first half. That should get better based on the steps that we've taken already. And as we look forward at our plan designs for 2017, we're going to make some further changes in our plan designs for 2017 that we think will also help us bring our cost down.

One of the challenges that every company has right now is that the full impacts of the Affordable Care Act are finally working their way through. And so that influences the behavior of each employee and the decisions they make about where to obtain converge. We've seen a lot of these government-sponsored exchanges go bust and so that's changing people's decision dynamics. So, it's going to remain a little bit of volatile, I would say, over the next year or two, but this is a major focused area for us, and I think we're confident that we can bring down the cost of healthcare as we go forward.

That was very helpful. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Marc Riddick from Sidoti. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

I wanted to – you touched on it a little bit, but I wanted to follow-up with the progress on the MGM Resort assignment and maybe if you could sort of share some of your initial views on not just the execution of that specific opportunity, but also the Las Vegas market in general, maybe some of the things that you've seen there that you can maybe share some of your first impressions. Thank you.

Well I'd be glad to answer that and it's very timely since I was just in Las Vegas last week, 115 degree temperature so I'm glad to be back to Chicago where it's only 90 degrees. But, so far so good is how I would describe it. We obviously commenced operations with MGM at all of their properties in Las Vegas. We advised them on bringing in brand new automation for all of their self park and also for their valet operation.

They've implemented pay parking both self pay parking and also with their valet and of course on the T-Mobile Arena there has done underway with a lot of large events and we're assisting them in managing that and some of our [ph] SP Plus game guy folks (21:12) have been advising them and us on what's the best way to manage large events at that arena.

So, we're off to a good start, but there's a lot to do to build an organization from scratch when you come into a market where you don't have any base of operations. You have to create all of that, but we really like the opportunities in Las Vegas. We recently made a decision to base a Senior Vice President of Operations in Las Vegas permanently because we see that the end market can grow for us very nicely way beyond the MGM relationship. And quite frankly I was surprised that Las Vegas that the permanent population there makes it like the fourth or fifth largest city in the United States. So it's not just a tourist destination anymore. And of course, they've got their new hockey team coming and will become – continue to be a very vibrant market for the long-haul.

So clearly, now that MGM has made the decision to introduce pay parking, other operators of hotels and casinos and properties are now kind of thinking along the same lines. And it wouldn't surprise me over the next 12 months to see more and more convert to pay parking. I think that ultimately that will be the model there just like it is everywhere else.

We also think – and it goes beyond the casinos, there's other things going on in Las Vegas. We have some other clients that we've already cultivated relationships with, that are not casino clients and we think there's an opportunity to grow there too. So if we were to fast forward two years, three years I think we'll be looking at a situation where this will be a very nice core market for SP Plus.

Okay. Excellent. Thank you for the color there.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Kevin Steinke from Barrington Research. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good morning, Kevin.

So, the 4% same location growth, that was a pretty solid number. Can you dig at all into what's driving that? Is that just increased parking activity across the country or any success in cross-selling your ancillary services? Anymore comment would be helpful on that.

Yeah. I mean, I'll take it [ph] Kevin (23:42) and then Vance may be able to add some more color. As I said to one of the earlier questions, we're clearly seeing opportunity to put prices up for parking and so to the extent that, the market supports that, we're doing that. That's a factor. We have our operational excellence group focused very much on our most important properties and they're out there all the time looking for opportunities to optimize revenue. We've seen an expansion of online selling of parking, it's still small, but growing very rapidly on a year-over-year basis and that hopefully it's bringing some people to the parking facility, they might have not parked there before.

So, our marketing, interactive marketing efforts are very, very active right now. We think that's contributing to it. Certainly, we are always in front of clients with proposals to add any ancillary services, whether it's ground transportation, facility maintenance and the like and we're certainly seeing strong receptivity from clients to do that. They want to simplify their own lives and not have to manage multiple external relationships.

So, going with somebody like us, I think is a good thing to do. And of course, some of our efforts we've talked about this in the comments around risk management and total costs of risk I think are starting to bear fruit. We're focused very hard in trying to have an accident-free workplace for our employees, for our customers and that's the right thing to do, but it also is beneficial from a financial point of view and that will be contributing as well.

All right. That's interesting. So I guess a number of the things you outlined are still in the fairly early innings to use that analogy again in terms of the costs of risk cross-selling ancillary so I guess there should be a fair amount of room to run here in terms of growing gross profit at same locations, is that fair to say?

Well, I would say there's room to run, yes. I think it's kind of like the 93% retention rate in the quarter. I would love to believe that it's going to be 4% every quarter from now on and I'd love to believe that it's 93%, but this is one quarter's performance. And so, we remain very focused on creating meaningful same-store growth at the same time driving up our retention rate into those levels that I was talking about and of course continuing to write more new business every year than the prior year. And as I commented in my remarks, we're ahead of last year's record pace on new business for the first half of this year. So it's very, very important that we kind of take more than a one quarter view and just recognize the fact that we had a great quarter in terms of same location growth. We had a great quarter in terms of location retention when you exclude that one contract that we voluntarily terminated, but our goals remain the same, but I wouldn't want to create the expectation that it will now be 4% every quarter or 93% every quarter.

Right, right. Fair enough. So the turnover in the off-airport location or locations, is that just related to what you talked about last quarter in terms of some increased competition in a specific market particularly LA?

Yes. I mean I think a couple of things have affected us on a year-over-year basis. We talked about a couple of large airports that we weren't able to renew last year and so we're seeing the full year effect of those kind of flush through our results, namely on the two ground transportation operations at Reagan and Dallas last year and also, the Nashville airport. And we also have exited from LAX airport as the on-airport operator. But the big issue in terms of off-airport is really around LAX. SP Plus, its business is not heavily focused on off-airport. We have some nice off-airport operations, but we had a very unusual situation around LAX, where we had several off-airport operations there, we still have some today.

But two things have happened, one, the LA Airport authority has actually purchased a lot of the land that these off-airport operations operate on, because they want to use that land for other purposes either redevelopment or taxi holding areas and the like. So, some of these are being converted away from off-airport operations and that's affected us.

And it's also some new off-airport operations have also opened around LAX and so, it's been very, very price competitive there. Our business at SP Plus quite frankly is more focused with the on-airport contract. We believe that we can deliver exceptional value to airport authorities around the country and that becomes our focus. And the off-airport business, we pick it up when we can, but it's kind of an unusual situation for us at LAX to be both on-airport and off-airport.

Right. Okay. And you mentioned that one of the reasons that G&A was down year-over-year, in addition to your good progress on cost reduction initiatives. Is that there was a reduction in the 2016 performance-based compensation accrual. So, just wondering what the driver was behind that?

Well, we're always looking at our expected performance for the year, Kevin, and what I would say clearly, we are targeting higher gross profit growth than what we have achieved in the first half of the year. And I think our forecast for the year will support that. But clearly, year-to-date we've had the performance that we had and when we have our performance be what it is and maybe it's not exactly what we expected, we adjust our accruals to be appropriate for that level of performance.

Sure and – yeah. Go ahead.

Yeah. So I would just add that basically what it is, is it's that we're saying that we saw fairly significant reductions in G&A both on the quarter and year-to-date kind of continuing along that path. Some portion of that, not the majority, was related to adjustments in performance based compensation accruals for the reasons that Marc outlined.

Okay. Although you – I think, you noted again that you would expect growth or gross profit to kind of pick up in the second half here as we continue to roll out some of this new business, so I guess is that kind of the expectation as we look forward to the second half of the year?

Yes, it is. And I would say, just to be clear on our performance based compensation accruals. We look at our expectations for the whole year, when we're making adjustments, so it's not like well, we made an adjustment in the first half and that's brought it down and then when we achieve the things that we're talking about in the second half, it's now going to spike back up. We've made a determination of what we think is an appropriate accrual for the year based on our expectations for growth in the second half.

All right. Well thanks for taking the questions. That's all I had.

Thank you, Kevin.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you. And at this time I'm not showing any further questions. I would now like to turn the call back over to Marc Baumann for any closing remarks.

Thank you, Charlotte, and thank you, everyone for joining us today. We really appreciate your interest in SP Plus and we look forward to sharing a bunch of exciting developments when we meet again in three months. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.