corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q4 2008 Standard Parking


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Becky, and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you and good morning, everybody. As Becky just said, I’m Marc Baumann, Chief Financial


Officer of Standard Parking, and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to our


conference call for the fourth quarter of 2008. I hope all of you have had the chance to review our


earnings announcement, which was released after the market closed yesterday. And we expect to


file our 10-K for 2008 by tomorrow.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, Jim will provide


guidance for 2009 and we’ll open the call up for any questions that you may have.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


Company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the Company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the Company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


We do not intend to address or entertain any questions today regarding the potential sale by


Steamboat Industries LLC, our parent company, of a majority, and potentially their entire stake in


our company, we refer you to the Form 8-K, which the Company filed on February 6, 2009.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet, and can be accessed on our web site standardparking.com and also at earnings.com.


There’ll be a replay available on either web site for thirty days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Marc, and good morning everyone. Thanks again for joining us this quarter. Particularly, in


light of the challenging economic state, we are pleased with the results of the fourth quarter and for


the year, calendar year ending 2008. As we talked about last quarter, this downturn certainly has


affected the volumes of parkers entering and exiting our facilities.


But as we’ve talked about for over the last several years, we’ve created a business model around


being risk averse and trying to spread that risk, both geographically and economically. So,


therefore, with the amount of management contracts that the business has as opposed to the


amount of leases and exposure we have to volume count. The business performed very well,


certainly better than industries and businesses that we compete with in our own sphere.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This economy also brings us opportunities. Some of the hits that the company has taken through


the third and fourth quarter and we expect to take in 2009 are being mitigated by those


opportunities, and I’ll talk more about that later. But typically as has been my experience in this


industry now for 25 years, we have a rather full pipeline of opportunities as clients, property


management companies, municipalities, our traditional client list begin to look for the qualitative


side of our business in order to minimize their exposures during this environment, which brings us


lots of new opportunity.


We spoke in our press release last night about retaining a vast majority of our business. Our


retention rate staying up around the 90th percentile, that we’ve experienced and is the company’s


general goal in that area. And we’ve retained 96% of the company’s profit, which means we’re


obviously retaining those facilities that are more valuable to us.


That being said, on a full year basis, earnings per share is up 19% over 2007 and the fourth quarter


of 2008 was unchanged at $0.27. We have retained, as I said, about 90% of our locations and 96%


of our 2008 operating profit from same stores.


We continue to win new business as I described. 2008 was our best new business year, writing


about 3.5 million of new business during that period. We added 84 net new locations. We’ve begun


operations at the Denver and Richmond Airports in the fourth quarter, adding almost 50,000


parking spaces to our operating portfolio. We continue to add to our university parking portfolio with


the addition of Columbia University in New York City.


We’ve also expanded our relationship with CIM Group, a real estate fund manager that invests in


urban communities throughout North America. We were awarded four new facilities in the fourth


quarter of 2008 bringing to six the total number of facilities we manage for that group.


We also expanded our relationship with Jamison Services, Inc., with the addition of 12 parking


locations and two security operations. The company has been a service provider to Jamison, one of


the largest privately held real estate firms in Southern California, for over 15 years. And with the


addition of the Drake Hotel on Chicago’s Magnificent Mile, we continue to add marquee names to


our parking portfolio.


We’ve done a good job of controlling our G&A costs during this time, and cost control will continue


to be an area of focus, both for ourselves and on behalf of our clients. We tasked the company


during 2007 and 2008 to undertake our process initiatives, and we remain on schedule to begin to


recognize G&A savings later this year, and I’ll speak more about this a little later when I talk to


2009.


The business generated 6.7 million of free cash flow during the fourth quarter and 22.2 million


during the full-year 2008. While these levels are down from the comparable periods of 2007, it was


not unexpected as working capital investment in new client relationships, as well as reduced


revenue at client locations, impacted our free cash flow by as much as 6 million in 2008.


To wrap up, we’re pleased with our overall performance through these difficult economic times. We


expect that the next several quarters will continue to be challenging, but anticipate that our


business model will continue to enable us to withstand the economic downturn somewhat better


than the other companies, as I was mentioning before that did not have a business model based on


fixed fee management contracts with both geographic and market diversity.


With that, I’ll turn the call back over to Marc, so that he can lead you through a more detailed


discussion of our financial performance. And I will return to provide guidance in 2009 a little later in


this conversation.