corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2008 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jackie and I will be your operator for today’s


conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-


and-answer session toward the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference, Mr. Marc


Baumann, Chief Manager Officer of Standard Parking. You may proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Jackie, and good morning, everybody. I am Marc Baumann, Chief Financial Officer of


Standard Parking and your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to our call for the first


quarter of 2008.


I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings announcement, which was released


after the market closed yesterday. We expect to file the 10-Q sometime tomorrow. We will begin


our call today with a brief overview of the quarter by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we’ll


open up the call for a question-and-answer session.


During the call, we will make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations, and financial performance. These statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website at standardparking.com and also at earnings.com.


There will be a replay available on either website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Marc, and good morning, everyone. We are pleased to report that 2008 is off to a great


start. Net income is up 23% over last year’s same period and earnings per share is up 28% year-


over-year. The company generated almost 3 million of free cash flow in the quarter, which is less


than the 5.2 million generated in the first quarter of last year due to normal working capital


fluctuations.


Free cash flow generally tends to be lower in the first quarter of each year relative to the other


quarters because we make performance-based compensation payouts of approximately 4 million in


March of each year. Also, parking activity at airports and hotels is generally slowest during the first


calendar quarter, which affects our cash flow. And Marc will discuss cash flow in a little more detail


later in our presentation.


We deployed that free cash generated during the quarter along with borrowings under our revolving


credit facility to complete the acquisition of G.O. Parking here in Chicago, which we previously


announced and continue our previously disclosed stock repurchase program.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We continued to add new business to our portfolio while maintaining a 92% location retention rate


and a 98% profit – gross profit retention rate.


Some notable activity in our business this last quarter includes the fact that we began operations at


the newly constructed Trump International Hotel & Towers, right here in Chicago, where we


manage both the valet and self-park operations.


We were awarded an additional contract by Caruso Affiliated, the company that developed The


Grove in Los Angeles. This new contract award is for the parking at Caruso’s Americana at Brand


development in Glendale, California, which is a large-scale retail, entertainment, and residential


complex. We also increased our New York portfolio with the award of the parking operations at five


facilities in Queens by The Greater Jamaica Development Corporation.


While not affecting first quarter earnings, I’m pleased to report that just last week, we settled our


claim for damages we experienced during Hurricane Katrina several years ago. Our insurance


company and ourselves reached an agreement for the settlement of that claim, which includes all


the property damage – the property damage we incurred as well as the business interruption


insurance. And I will discuss later in the presentation, and be available for questions and answers,


how that settlement will affect this year’s guidance.


The general economic consensus seems to be that we are on a recession or are headed into a


recession this year. We believe that our business model, which as you know is built on


management contracts with – and low fixed rent leases with geographical and vertical diversity,


should service well on the face of the business challenges coming from an economic downturn.


The underlying business growth is good and our acquisitions are adding to the overall growth of our


business. We continue – the business continues to generate solid free cash flow we’ve been using


to add value to our shareholders by repurchasing our stock and acquiring businesses.


With that, I’ll turn the call back over to Marc so that he can lead you through a more detailed


discussion of the quarter’s financial performance. Then I’ll wrap up with a guidance update for


2008.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Now that Jim has given you some commentary on the business, I’ll give you some details on the


quarter’s results.


Our total revenue for the quarter, excluding reimbursed management contract expense, increased


by 10.2 million or 16% to 73.6 million from 63.4 million in the same period last year, driven by solid


growth organically as well as from our acquired businesses.


Gross profit for the first quarter increased by 10% to 21.6 million from 19.7 million in ‘07. The first


quarters of 2008 and ‘07, each benefited from favorable $600,000 changes in insurance loss


experience reserve estimates relating to prior years. So obviously, on a year-on-year basis, did not


have any impact on the strong growth that we reported in gross profit.


General and administrative expenses increased by almost 6% to 11.4 million from 10.8 million in


the first quarter of 2007. As we advised in our earnings release, we believe the first quarter 2008


G&A is not indicative of the run rate for the rest of the year. Due to the timing of IT consulting


engagements, the selling of open positions, as well as the amortization of the restricted stock unit


grant that will begin in the third quarter of this year, we expect that the run rate for G&A will be


closer to 2.5 million per quarter – 12.5, excuse me.