corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2010 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Matt, and I will be your operator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer


session and instructions will be given at that time.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Eric (sic) [Marc]


Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please


proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Matt, and good morning everybody. I’m Marc Baumann, Chief Financial Officer of


Standard Parking, and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to the conference call


for the second quarter of 2010. I hope all of you’ve had a chance to review our earnings


announcement, which was released last evening.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we’ll open up the


call for a Q&A session.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website at standardparking.com. A replay will be available on


the website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Marc. Good morning everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning. Overall, we’re very


pleased with the Q2 results primarily as it’s large free of much of the noise that affected us over the


last several quarters. You know that maybe for the last four or five quarters Marc and I have taken


a lot of time trying to walk you through, in a transparent basis, the performance of the underlying


business during the economic downturn. So, we’re pleased that we don’t have to spend a whole lot


of time talking about that sort of noise as we’ve gotten the business past that.


For instance, if you’ll recall in 2009, we had some significant legal related costs, which largely did


not occur this year-to-date. And going in the other way in the second quarter of 2009, our decision


to suspend our performance based bonus program for the last year, resulted in our reversing out


the amounts we had accrued for it in the first quarter of 2009. This called for G&A to be unusually


low for the second quarter of last year, so our resumption of the bonus program for 2010 produces


what appears as a large year-over-year increase in the G&A line, but what is actually more


indicative of the appropriate run rate for G&A.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


I would also remind you that we suspended salary increases in 2009 for our people and restored


salary increases in 2010. So, if you look at the amounts of money that we – or the amounts we


spent on compensation increases this year over the last in terms of restoration of raises and


bonuses, our run rate for G&A is actually going where we want it, which is to be running the


business efficiently as it continues to grow. And we’ve talked about the benefit of some of the


initiatives and investments we’ve made over the last several years to get there. And we’d be glad to


talk about this a little later if we saw that there were some questions of this on the overnight report.


With this quarter’s results, there are some hopeful signs. We saw our same location gross profit


growth for the first time since late 2008. We’ve also began to see a, what we believe to be a


conclusion of pricing pressures on management fees and negotiations per contracts that have been


renewed. In essence, we believe that we’ve been though that period now. As the economy begins


to flatten out – I don’t certainly want to use the word grow at this point – but as the economy flattens


out, we think we’ve been through during the renewal stages of our contracts a adjustment to market


pricing based on losses of our dropped revenue, either the commercial, institutional or municipal


marketplaces that we serve. And we think that a lot of that pressure is over, which got the results


that I just spoke of.


We did see flattening in some of the markets that have been most affected by the deterioration of


the economy over the last 18 plus months such as airports, hotels, retail and special events. We


remain quite guarded, however, in our outlook for the travel related and consumerism areas of our


business as hotel and airline industry trying to suggest a continuing softness in those areas for the


remainder of this year. I’d refer you to some of – the most recent forecast that I saw, this week


indicate US airports and US airport enplanements are forecasted to be no better than flat for the


remainder of the year. They’ve been on average flat for 2010 compared to 2009; some months up 3


or 4 points, some months down 3 or 4 points. But if you look at the activity through June, really the


marketplace has been flat. The forecast that we’re seeing based on the services that we subscribe


to would imply that that flatness will continue through the third and fourth quarters of this year, while


the Asia markets and the – Euro, Asia markets have 3, 4, 5% growth attached to it. The US market


is projected to be flat. So, we’ve sort of analyzing, using that information.


In the hotel markets, we tend to look at some statistics that imply where hotel revenues and hotel


overnight stays are compared to those peak times in 2006 – 2006/2007. And while some markets


have recovered to less than double-digit comparisons to 2008, and I would highlight New Orleans


and some markets in the South, Atlanta. I think that the New Orleans data, because we operate


hotels in New Orleans, I think the New Orleans market’s being driven a lot by the fuel spill in the


Gulf, which has probably an unusual amount of hotel stays and along with the sort of normal New


Orleans tourism business.


But if you get to the bottom of the top 25 markets, you still find New York and Chicago and Houston


and markets where we have hotel – a lot, significant hotel investments, as much as 30% off from


their peaks of several years ago, in all of the three that I mentioned, in the band between 25 to 30%


off from that area. So I thought I’d add some color to this report to give you an idea of the numbers


that I have in my head when I sort of think about the economy. And you’ve heard me talk the last


three or four calls about really any lack of solid clarity about growth trends in those areas.


More positively, however, the institutional municipal marketplace appears to be strong. Our new


business pipeline in those areas are full, and our acquisition of the Gameday business is adding to


the bottom line as well. Our location retention rate remained solid at 89%, and our location


operating profit retention remained at 97%. As a reminder, this statistic means that only 3% of our


last 12 months profit came from locations that we no longer operate.


Just to wrap up a little bit, I talked about the new business pipeline, and I’ve been talking about our


penetration into the municipal marketplace as a result of privatization, either partnering with


infrastructure funds who might be purchasing city-owned assets or the outright privatization of the