corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2009 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Mary and I will be your operator for today. At this


time all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I will now turn the conference over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mary and good morning to everybody. As Mary just said, I’m Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking, and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to


our conference call for the fourth quarter of 2009. I hope all of you’ve had a chance to review our


earnings announcement which was released yesterday afternoon.


As usual, we’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that we’ll


open the call up for Q&A session.


During the call we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website at standardparking.com. A replay will be available on


the website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Marc and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. 2009 was a year of strong


operating results for us despite the severe slowdown in the economy. Two items however


significantly impacted our reported 2009 earnings per share of $0.90 and that had not been


anticipated in our 2009 guidance of $1.05 to $1.11 that we provided at this time a year ago. These


two items which accounted for $0.19 per share or comprised of cost incurred in connection with the


company transfer and secondary offering of our former controlling shareholder shares and a


tentative settlement of a couple of labor violation cases in California. We’ve spoken at length in the


past about our former controlling shareholder situation and we are pleased that the successful


secondary offering has put that issue behind us.


We believe that we’ve also been able to put behind us a couple of labor violation cases in California


that warrant a little bit more comment. As you know we have a long history of operating in California


which has been and continues to be a key market for us. However, California is a challenging


environment for employers especially in these challenging economic times. We are not the only


well run company that could get caught up in the space regulatory morass. In any event, rather


than fight an extended legal battle we have reached a tentative settlement of these cases that upon


court approval will put the issues behind us at a cost of $3.1 million in 2009.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our location retention rate for the year was down to 87%, however a significant part of that results


from the fact that in the fourth quarter we lost a couple of contracts that represented a


disproportionately large number of locations. Fortunately, all of the locations that we lost during


2009 contributed only 3% to the year’s total profit which means our profit retention – gross profit


retention rate remained at 97%.


Offsetting these losses our new business activity continues to remain strong. We are especially


pleased to have been awarded the transportation management contracts for both Dulles


International and Reagan National airports in Washington D.C. We’ll operate a fleet of more than


70 buses and we will transport 6 million passengers and employees per year.


Activity in New York continues to remain strong with the award of the Rego Center, which is a large


new retail center developed by Vornado Realty Trust in Queens. The parking garage at this center


consists of 1,200 parking spaces and we were instrumental in overseeing the selection, and


installation of an automated pay-on-foot revenue control system at this facility.


In Denver, we were recently awarded a portfolio of three new properties by the City of Denver


consisting of the parking operations of the Denver Performing Arts Complex, the Cultural Center


and the Justice Center, these garages add over 3,300 parking spaces to our portfolio.


Given the challenges presented by the state of the economy we’re pleased what we are able to


accomplish in 2009. For the most part, our business model which is heavily management contract


based with wide geographic and vertical market diversity has proved to be the right mix in this


economic climate. We did not a see a big – as big a downward of swing as others and competitors


in our industry, though, while at the same time we don’t expect to see large upswings once the


economy recovers and all of you know about our business model in that setting.


In closing, we did what we said we were going to do in 2009. While we could have done with a little


less noise around the business due to the matters I discussed earlier and in our release last night


we emerged from 2009 as a fully independent company, having made continued investment in our


brand’s expansion, our service capabilities, our human and technological resources and our


processing efficiencies. We feel that these investments made while the business – the overall


business continue to grow during a difficult economic period, positioned the company well as a


multi-talented, outsourcing choice to commercial, institutional and municipal real estate managers.


With that, I’ll turn the call back over to Marc so that he can lead you through a more detailed


discussion of our financial performance and then I will return to provide our thoughts on 2010.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Jim, and hello again everybody. Let’s take a look now at our financial results for the


quarter. Excluding reimbursed management contract expenses, total revenue for the fourth quarter


of 2009 decreased by 2% to 73 million from 74.7 million for the same period of 2009 due to a 9%


decrease in revenue from leased locations offset by a 5% increase in revenue from managed


locations.


Gross profit for the fourth quarter of 2009 decreased by 20% to 17.7 million, 11 percentage points


of that year-over-year decrease is attributable to the anticipated settlement of the California labor


violations cases. The remaining year-over-year decline was primarily due to continued weakness in


the travel, retail and special event areas of the business which tend to be more tied to discretionary


spending. G&A expense for the fourth quarter of 2009 decreased by 15% to 10.3 million, primarily


as the result of steps taken this year to reduce compensation expenses which was offset by


$600,000 of cost incurred in connection with the secondary offering in the quarter.