corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2009 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Regina and I will be your operator for today. At this


time all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please proceed sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Regina and good morning everybody. As Regina just said, I’m Marc Baumann, I’m the


Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking, and I’ll be your primary Investor Relations contact.


Welcome to our conference call for the third quarter of 2009. I hope all of you’ve had a chance to


review our earnings announcement, which was released before the market opened today.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that we’ll open up the


call for a Q&A session.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet. It can be accessed on our website at standardparking.com and also at earnings.com. A


replay will be available on either websites for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Marc. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for being with us today on Monday. Obviously in


the press release that we issued this morning and last evening you read that we are particularly


pleased with what we saw in the third quarter and now year-to-date.


As we talked about a year ago now, with all of the noise around our business, whether it’s litigation


issues or equity transfers within the business, we wanted to make sure that when we issue a press


release that we took particular time and detail to point out some of those issues that affected the


business or are affecting the business on a one-time basis, whether it’s as result of the economic


environment or those things that I cited a moment ago, are kind of all in an effort to act with a more


transparent basis as far as what’s really going on with our base business, and what are the results


that the base business is producing out in the field or here at headquarters as we attempt to


continue to reduce cost and become more efficient.


So I think we did a pretty good job in the release, and we’ll add some color in detail in our


comments today. But I think that our real outlook in terms of our base business and our outlook on


the future becomes much more clear when we remove some of this noise around the business.


Certainly we saw in the third quarter a beginning of the flattening in some of the declines that we’d
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


seen in some of the key consumer areas that affect our business in our leases, a flattening of


almost 18 months of decline in passenger traffic at our airports and flattening out of our occupancy


nights at hotels and things like that.


As I’ve talked about almost every quarter, many of our leases where our profit is subject to changes


in volume are based upon consumer activity, and those consumer activities driven predominantly at


airports and hotels. So it was encouraging to see those trends and those declines flattening out. So


that being said, I do listen to the hundreds and thousands of talking heads that report in


newspapers and talk on televisions about where the economy is headed and quite frankly, we just


don’t have enough of a picture in these trends to indicate whether the decline is stabilizing with


upward movement in the future or not.


The forecasts are kind of clouded and everybody – and there is no one consensus of opinion on


where they’re headed. But at least we were buoyed by what we saw in the third quarter and


forecasts for the fourth as it relates those key metrics for the business. And I think our third quarter


began to show that.


I will give you some of the details that we talked about in the release and obviously we’re available


to answer questions after this. In the third quarter of 2008, we recognized a gain from the sale of


certain contract rights. And we have favorable movements in our insurance reserve for both


casualty and health that didn’t reoccur in this year’s third quarter, as year-over-year in history those,


we’ve indicated that those things would begin to flatten out as we get longer experience runs.


And we incurred some legal-related expenses in 2009 that were larger than normal, which may


cloud the results of our underlying business activity, and I’ve talked about when you – my


experience in being here for almost 25 years is that when you get into this sort of an economic


climate, that the amount of litigation that we have to deal with increases significantly and our costs


that we wouldn’t normally have to incur in a normalized period ratchet up, whether it is employee


claims or people’s flipping and falling or clients who don’t want to pay their bills and things like that


where we tend to take on a much higher level of litigation and we had a lot of those one-time


expenses this year as opposed to last. And hopefully, with some sort of return to normalcy, those


things will go away.


And I can tell you that the amount of cases that we’re dealing with currently are down from where


they might have been last quarter and the quarters before. So that in itself is good news. If we


exclude all of those items, which I just mentioned, which were unfavorable to us on a year-over-


year basis, gross profit would have been essentially flat, which we think is a good thing given this


environment.


Again, this is primarily a testament to the level of protection provided by our business model, which


is predominately management contracts that are diversified across geography and different sectors


of the economy. We like to think of ourselves and we think that our activity and our production and


our performance during this environment would tend to lend credence and support to what we’ve


talked about in attempting to posture our businesses’ recession-resistant.


Certainly, anybody would be foolish to think that a business could be recession-proof. But we’ve


always sort of advertised our business model as being relatively recession-resistant, and we’re


proving that out through this very difficult time. The Gameday acquisition that we announced


previously at the beginning of the third quarter also contributed to the results that we highlighted in


our release.


On top of this, as we discussed last quarter this year, we’ve taken steps to align our SG&A with the


reduced level of business activity as a result SG&A was down 6% year-over-year. So although, our


reported third quarter EPS declined 7% when compared with third quarter last year, when you


adjust for these things that I’ve been talking about that affected year-over-year gross profit


performance, 2009’s third quarter earnings per share would have increased by 25%.