corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2010 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Amy, and I will be your operator today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann, Executive


Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Amy, and good morning everybody. As Amy just said, I’m Marc Baumann and I’m the


Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. I’m also your primary Investor Relations contact.


Welcome to our conference call for the third quarter of 2010. I hope you’ve had a chance to read


our earnings announcement, which was released last evening.


We’ll begin the call today as usual, with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief


Executive Officer, and I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we’ll open


up the call for a Q&A session.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking, regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on our website at standardparking.com. A replay will be available on


the website for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Marc, and good morning everyone, thanks for joining us this morning. Obviously we’re


pleased to report a real solid quarter. We detailed that performance in our – the press release we


issued last night so I won’t regurgitate those numbers and Marc will cover them in some detail as


we get through our presentation this morning.


But it goes about saying that double-digit growth in operating income, net income and earnings per


share was a welcome performance for us to see. And as Marc will detail for you in just a minute or


so, we also generated almost 13 million in free cash flow during the quarter.


In term of some of the operating metrics that we talk about each quarter, location operating profit


retention remains strong at 96% even though location retention dipped slightly down to 87% from


88%, 89% last quarter. Paid exits at same-store lease locations experienced solid year-over-year


growth averaging 4% of an upward trend with promising trends across most of the vertical markets.


SP Plus Transportation is growing nicely. We now operate above 550 shuttles for airports,


hospitals, universities and office buildings that transport almost 30 million passengers per year.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Enplanements at airports where we operate are slightly up overall year-to-date this year versus last


year, though airports on the industrial belt of the Midwest and East and certain airports in the south


continue to lag.


To add just a little more color to those statistics, the September worldwide enplanements that were


announced this week implied restoration towards 2008 enplanements level. Again, those were


worldwide numbers, so September of 2010 compared to September of 2008. However, when you


begin to look at those numbers in some detail, the North American market is only recovered by


about half of that number or less than 4%.


And I can tell you that paid exhibits at our airports trail enplanements slightly. So what that means


is, is that people are finding alternative methods to airports or, slightly finding alternative modes to


airports and we have a pretty crystal clear observation that paid exits trial enplanements at airports


slightly.


So, to make a long story short, North American airport enplanements up about 4% and our paid


exits just trailing slightly behind that. So while there’s some promising signs in there, we still remain


slightly cautious on the entire travel industry and the travel industry that trails economic recovery.


Looking forward to the remainder of 2010 and beyond, and some of the things we’ll talk about today


because this is the last time we’ll speak to you all during this fiscal year until we report on year end


and give some guidance in February and March, we thought we’d talk about some of the – what we


see to be the future for the rest of this year and in to 2011.


Obviously, we don’t think that the economy is recovered – some areas we’re seeing this upward


trending, but if you were to look at office space, vacancy rates if you were to look at retail sales and


at large shopping malls where we market, we’re not seeing a whole lot of real positive trending yet.


So obviously due to that we face some challenges. But at the same time, because of the


investments that we’ve been making over the last several years, were also provided some fairly


unique opportunities, almost singular to our business plan. Certainly in the area of challenges the


economic uncertainty that I mentioned earlier has a corresponding impact on our pricing both for


new deals and renewals.


It is important to remember that as we move into the remainder of 2010 and 2011 that our re-


trading of our deals trails any trends in the economy. What that means is, that as I’ve talked about


all year long our fees and our prices and our allocations and our product line being provided to our


clients is normally a reflection of the revenues that are being generated at those locations based on


economic conditions.


So why we’re in the cost plus management contract business, as deals come up for renewal and


we then re-price based on that economic trend over the last say 24 months we then contract for


fees, prices and allocations on a move forward basis based on that. So the recovery for us on the


re-trading of deals and pricing on new deals trails that of the economic situation. So I suspect it will


be well in to 2011, if there’s an economic trend that continues that will enable us to restore our


pricing and our negotiations to the pre-recession level.


So obviously what I’ve been talking about this year is replacing that loss, or replacing that pressure


on pricing with more value. And our location count goes up and we’re charging additional services


at locations, so we’ve been weathering the storm that way. But I wanted to just provide a little bit of


a refresher on how this sort of an economy affects us in terms of the nature of our business model.


Certainly the area of expanding government intervention, whether it is taxes or regulations, is a


challenge. Additional SEC reporting, department of labor reporting, new laws being written and in


many of the states on both coasts, whether it’s the east coast, or west coast or in here in Illinois,