corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Standard Parking Corporation’s


Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Steve , and I will be your coordinator


for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-


and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann,


Executive Vice President and CFO. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everybody. As Steve just said, I’m Marc Baumann, the Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking and I’m also your primary Investor Relations contact.


Welcome to our conference call for the second quarter of 2009. I hope all of you have had a chance


to review our earnings announcement, which was released after the market closed yesterday. We


expect to file the 10-Q for the quarter later this week.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that, we’ll open up the


call for a Q&A session as Steve just mentioned.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet. It can be accessed on our website standardparking.com and also at earnings.com. A


replay will be available on either websites for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.


James A. Wilhelm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Marc. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for dialing in with us today. We put the press


release out last night to everyone and that included a lot of detail and Marc will speak to some of


the numbers in greater detail as we get into the substance of today’s report and discussion.


But as everybody knows we continue to be in a challenging economic environment, but through the


second quarter we’re pleased with the company’s ability to drive its way through this sort of an


economy and the results that we think speak for itself.


Now, while Marc will address with some detail, some of the “noise” around the business, these are


as we promised you at the end of the third quarter last, when we did this very same call at the end


of last year’s third quarter and we were realizing that with some certainty now we were heading into


the downturn side of the economy that we would try to add clarity to the underlying business. How


is the business performing during this? What are those things that would be adversely or positively


affecting the business on a quarter-to-quarter basis that might not be recurring, or might not be


speaking to the underlying organics of the business.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So, we’ve attempted in the press release and in some of the discussions that we’ll have today to try


to remove some of the cloud of the recession and the issues that affect us during a recession as


opposed to where the business is really performing on an organic basis.


For instance, a year ago the second quarter was enabled in terms of earnings per share by the


settle up we had with our insurers over Hurricane Katrina. And that had an obvious benefit to us


last year, which didn’t recur this year. Also when we get into these sorts of economies and in the


second quarter I think it points to that in terms of real kind of effects of this economy on us.


As I’ve mentioned in the past, we tend to see a higher incidence of insurance claims, those by our


customers and those by employees of the business as they find themselves pressured


economically. So, insurance claims and accruals for potential insurance claims always spread


widely during this sort of an economy. We have a much higher incidence rate in this sort of an


economy of our clients having difficult financial results, or outright bankruptcies, or they might be


slow to pay and slow to pay with a look towards not paying at all on receivables they may owe us.


So we incur a little higher level of bad debt during this sort of an economy.


So between insurance claims and bad debts and last year’s positive second quarter, we also


become affected surely by a downturn in volume at some of our locations and I’ll speak with some


more specificity about volume change as I get through the best of – rest of my report and then try to


isolate those volumes that are dropped as a result of the recession so that we can have some


clarity about the business model on a move forward basis.


We also, in this sort of an economy, tend to see price pressure, not necessarily in terms of the


market itself in price pressure, in terms of bidding against others or redoing our contracts for which


there are some. But we often times see clients who might be under that same financial pressure


they’re not threatened with bankruptcy or they don’t – not pay their bills on time, but they may take


a look at a harder – a harder look at the expenses that they’ve been reimbursing us for over the last


several years and then take a challenge to those expenses. And we allude in our press release and


Marc will talk about settlements of issues with our clients where the cost of us going to litigation


over those potential issues is much more than just settling them, moving on – and moving on with


those contracts in the future and we’ve had obviously that sort of activity. So when we talk about


noise or we talk about non-recurring events, I just wanted to add some clarity to what those events


are that occur in this sort of environment.


And as our release says and as Marc will talk about in a minute, if you sort out those sort of items,


positive from last year, positive from this year, negative from last year, negative from this year. We


look at gross profit being only down about 1%. And that would be about what we’ve been expecting


given the volume changes that we’ve seen and leases in reverse management contracts that


affects gross profit. That, of course, is net of business loss and new business gains. Those sorts of


issues that affects gross profit as well.


So, on top of the gross profit issues we’ve obviously taken some steps along the way as we talked


about last night in the release to reduce our general – our SG&A or the cost side of our business.


Now, some of that cost is the sort of early arrival of some of the technology solutions that we’ve had


in the past. We’ve talked about trying to be more efficient as on the support side of the business as


a result of changes in technology to the way we collect time and attendance, the way we handle


accounts payable, the way we pay our vendors and ultimately, the way we collect receivables


particularly in the area of Parkers.


And some of those initiatives, as we’ve discussed in the past, are already spread across the


business and we’ve been able to take somewhat of an early advantage over getting the benefit of


less people on the support side, processing time and attendance, less people processing payables.


And that has had some effect through the second quarter this year and will have greater effect as


we get into the third and fourth quarter of this year and then ultimately on time for 2010 in terms of