Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Vance C. Johnston — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, SP Plus Corp.
G. Marc Baumann — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, SP Plus Corp.
Daniel Moore — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Nate J. Brochmann — Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC
David J. Gold — Analyst, Sidoti & Company, LLC
Kevin M. Steinke — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the SP Plus Quarter One 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to introduce your first speaker for today's conference, Mr. Vance Johnston. You may begin, sir.

Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everybody. As Andrew just said, I am Vance Johnston, Chief Financial Officer at SP Plus. Welcome to the conference call for the first quarter of 2015. I hope all of you have had a chance to review our earnings announcement that was released last evening.

We'll begin our call today with a brief overview by Marc Baumann, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Then I'll discuss our financial performance in a little more detail. After that, we'll open up the call for a Q&A session.

During the call, we'll make some remarks that will be considered forward-looking statements, including statements as to our 2015 financial guidance and statements regarding the company's strategies, plans, intentions, future operations and expected financial performance.

Actual results, performance and achievements could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks, uncertainties or other factors, including those described in our earnings release issued yesterday, which is incorporated by reference for purposes of this call and is available on our SP Plus website. I'd also like to refer you to the risk factor disclosures made in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Finally, before we get started, I wanted to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the Internet and that a replay will be available on our SP Plus website for 30 days from now.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Marc.

Thanks Vance, and good morning, everyone. I am very pleased to report that 2015 is off to a great start. Strong execution helped us to achieve first quarter results with a significant improvement in our year-over-year profitability.

Adjusted EBITDA is up by more than $6 million and adjusted EPS improved from a loss of $0.05 in the first quarter of 2014 to income of $0.13 per share in the first quarter of 2015. A key driver of our improved performance was an increase in same-location gross profit at operating locations which was up 6% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the first quarter of 2014 and which showed growth across a vast majority of our geographic areas.

If you recall, the severe weather during last year's first quarter affected large portions of the country. While we did experienced severe weather in the first quarter of this year, it was less widespread with the greatest impact in the Northeast, primarily in Boston and New York City.

Robust new business activity also contributed to our strong growth in gross profit as did a significant favorable change in casualty insurance reserve estimates for prior years and a reduction in healthcare benefit costs which Vance will talk about in more detail later.

We're excited about the strong momentum we're seeing in new business activity and have continued to build our pipeline. We're especially pleased with the successful results we're having in the municipal and hospitality markets. Two wins of note, our municipal deals in Stockton, California and Louisville Kentucky, and we just learned last night that the City of Los Angeles had awarded us a contract to operate the SP – SP meters in the City of Los Angeles, pardon me, for nine years, the City's coin and collection and counting services and also the on-street meters, so 33,000 on-street single-space meters will be operated by SP Plus Municipal Services.

We were selected as the best value to the City due to new technology, improved accountability and added security that we're going to provide in the collection and counting of over $45 million in coins. LA has the second largest network of on-street meters in the nation, second only to New York City, so we're very, very much looking forward to beginning that contract in a month or so. With the addition of these municipalities, we now provide on-street and off-street parking management enforcement and citation processing services to over 90 municipalities across the United States.

On hotel front, we recently won several contracts in South Florida to provide white-glove valet and parking management services. We're also pleased to report that our overall location retention rate remained strong with 89% for the 12 months ended March 31, 2015.

On the cost side of the business, we continue to be focused on disciplined cost management. Work is now underway to reengineer feedback office processes, improve sourcing and procurement and continue to realign the management organization. While we certainly have plenty of work ahead of us, I am happy with our progress to-date and I am confident that we have a solid strategy in place for the future. We look forward to executing on our key initiatives to achieve our profitability goals and drive value for our shareholders.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Vance to lead you through a more detailed discussion of our financial performance in the quarter and guidance for 2015.

Thanks Marc, and hello everybody. I'd like to spend a few minutes reviewing our financial results in more detail. I want to reiterate that we're presenting and we'll focus our comments on adjusted results that exclude the impact of non-routine items, such as, but not limited to, restructuring, merger and integration costs, costs related to non-routine structure and other repairs, one-time transaction costs, certain non-routine tax items and the impact of any non-routine asset sales or dispositions. We include in this last category the contribution of the company's Click and Park business to Parkmobile, meaning that we've adjusted the 2014 results as is if the Click and Park revenues and costs had already been contributed to Parkmobile for purposes of comparability.

Now on to our results. First quarter 2015 adjusted gross profit increased 18% over the same period last year to $41.3 million. As Marc mentioned, strong same-location growth of 6% and strong new business activity contributed to this overall gross profit growth. We also saw favorable casualty loss revenue adjustments for prior years of $800,000 in the first quarter of this year as compared to unfavorable changes of $1.1 million in the first quarter of last year, a swing of $1.9 million on a year-over-year basis. In addition, we saw a significant reduction in health benefit costs in the first quarter of 2015 relative to the first quarter of 2014. Reductions in health benefit costs inure to us as we are self-insured for the costs of medical claims up to a stop-loss limit similar to our casualty insurance coverage.

Adjusted G&A for the quarter of 2015 was flat year-over-year despite a $1.5 million increase in the expected payouts under our 2015 performance-based compensation programs as a result of improved performance in the first quarter of this year.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2015 was $16.7 million, an increase of $6.3 million over adjusted EBITDA of $10.4 million for the same period last year. And adjusted EPS was $0.13 in the first quarter of 2015, an increase of $0.18 over 2014's first quarter adjusted loss per share of $0.05. The increase in adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS was primarily driven by the aforementioned increase in adjusted gross profit.

Adjusted free cash flow was negative $11.5 million during the first quarter of 2015 as compared to negative $13.9 million during the first quarter of 2014, in line with our expectations. Free cash flow tends to be lowest during the first calendar quarter for a variety of reasons including seasonality in the timing of cash distributions under the company's performance-based compensation program. In addition, free cash flow for the first quarter of 2015 reflects a $4.7 million income tax payment which is consistent with the expectation of significantly higher cash taxes in 2015 that we discussed on the last call.

Based on our first quarter financial results, we expect both adjusted earnings per share and adjusted EBITDA for the full year to be towards the higher end of the guidance range and maintain our adjusted free cash flow expectation of $30 million to $36 million for the full year.

That concludes our formal comments. I'll turn the call back over to Andrew to begin the Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And I'm showing our first question or comment comes from the line of Daniel Moore with CJS Securities. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Good morning, Dan.

Hi Dan.

Marc, I wanted to follow-up on your comments around new business wins and opportunities. What are some of the key competitive differentiators that are enabling those opportunities? And how would you characterize the pipeline today versus two years ago or so when you first took over Central?

Yeah. Well, I think, certainly the pipeline is much stronger; I'm going to answer that part of your question first. The one nice thing about the merger of Central and Standard is that both companies had achieved quite a lot of success in the municipal arena. And so I think the advantage of brining the two companies together from that point of view is that we have a tremendous amount of credibility when we're going in and proposing solutions for municipal clients. And we can point to local municipalities in most major markets where we're providing services. Obviously when a government agency makes a decision to either outsource meter collection or enforcement often for the first time, or to disrupt long-term service contracts where these services are provided by others, they want to make sure that they're putting themselves in the hands of somebody who really knows what they're doing. And so I think some momentum is building, I talked about the fact that we have 90 locations now and it makes us one of the largest providers of these services in North America. So I think that's a key to our credibility.

The other thing of course is that as we've talked before we invest extensively in our capabilities to provide technical solutions and creative ideas to municipalities and on the LA award which I was just talking about a few minutes ago, one of the differentiators that they really highlighted in selecting us was that, we were bringing unique technology solutions that we're going to give them real-time information about what was going on from a collection point of view, new vehicles with new technology. And I think that's another area where SP Plus stands out in terms of providing these services. And I don't want to mentioned names there; they're obviously out there in the public domain, that the people that we were competing against for these contracts are people that are in the technology sphere as well. So I was very, very pleased to see that we got this win.

One of the challenges for us in the municipal space is that these processes can take a lot of time, they have long lead times. So we've certainly build the pipeline of all the municipal opportunities that we feel are out there and attractive to us. In this particular case to Los Angeles, the entire process took almost three years. That's on the longer end, but large municipalities have fairly screening processes and evaluation processes that they go through before they make a decision like this. So we're very optimistic that we will continue to win more municipal deals on the back of what we've been doing now and see this is a definite growth area for SP Plus.

Very helpful. And maybe just switching gears a little bit, remind us of – in the past sort of first year or two years of the integration, remind us of the timeline for collapsing timekeeping systems and other next-level integration projects; what kind of mile posts we should be thinking about over the next few quarters? And any update on kind of CapEx anticipated or expected around those projects over the next year or two years?

Yeah, hi Dan. This is Vance. So let me address the first one – and first in order. So as we've kind of laid out on our fourth quarter call of 2014 and talked about previously, we have a number of cost reduction initiatives that the company is pursuing. Those tend to be in the following areas. There are some major process reengineering initiatives we alluded to one of those, but there are several under that umbrella which include as we look at kind of timekeeping systems and moving from two to one monthly parking systems and other key initiatives in that area. We would expect that those – we're working on those and are well underway now. Our anticipation is that we will be executing those over the next couple of years. Some of those we'll be able to complete sooner rather than later.

The second set of cost initiatives that we're focused on is on sourcing. We really believe there is an opportunity to leverage the scale of both companies coming together to get better terms and take down our cost of sourcing both direct and indirect spend, so we're working on that and that is underway as well. Marc alluded to in his opening comments around kind of those two plus also continuing to look at ways to be more efficient and streamline the organization as well. And then we're also very focused on just kind of overall cost control management and putting in place tighter cost controls as well. So hopefully that answers your first question Dan.

Your second question around CapEx, we haven't given as you know our CapEx guidance for the year, per se, but what we have provided is free cash flow guidance and so we don't see anything at this point in changing in relative to our free cash flow guidance and we feel comfortable with the amount of CapEx that we're spending in order to get to that point. As you look out over the next couple of years, we don't see anything different at this point than what we previously – the information we previously provided which is, there will be some additional CapEx that we'll have spend in relation to some of these key reengineering initiatives and some other things we'll be doing, but we don't see that is significant as it relates to prior years.

Very helpful. Lastly, obviously profitability improved nicely. Just curious, the number of facilities ticked down a little sequentially. How much active sort of pruning of underperforming is still taking place and when would we expect or should we expect to see positive growth again just in the overall number of facilities both managed and/or – and leased?

Yeah Dan, this is Vance again and the way I would describe that is, actually in terms of pruning underperforming locations, we're pretty much through that, now I say that, there's lease locations that will come up over time that are underperforming lease locations, when those come up, we'll certainly be looking to with the one renegotiate those and hopefully we're able to do so at favorable lease rates that allow us to make money. If we're not able to do that, then we may in the end walk away from those leases. But more of what you saw in the last quarter was relative to a couple of – certainly, one that we pointed out larger portfolios, whereby we lost a portfolio or two portfolios that had a number of locations within those portfolios. The actual contribution that those portfolios made to our overall gross profit was not significant. So even though the location number went down, the contribution to gross profit was not significant on a relative basis and that's what you saw in the first quarter. Now, having said that, as we said before and continue to be focused on, our overall focus is growing location growth, I mean that is the key thing that we're focused on.

Very helpful. Appreciate it.

Thanks.

And our next question or comment comes from the line of Nate Brochmann with William Blair & Company. Your line is now open.

Yeah, good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Nate.

Good morning, Nate.

Hey, so couple of questions, Vance you threw out what the casualty reserve change or delta was $800,000 versus $1.1 million last year. But you didn't give us the health benefits. I was wondering if you could give us that number. And then second question on that is, what are you doing differently there that might be a little bit more sustainable or take some of the volatility out of that number? Obviously, we know throughout all the years that those reserve adjustments do vary, and sometimes it's a little bit more, sometimes it's a little bit less. But obviously that's a much bigger delta. And to try to get a little bit of predictability there would probably be helpful, if you could kind of talk about that a little.

Sure. I'll start off and then Marc may want to add a little bit as it relates to what we're doing on casualty. I think that is a significant focus of the company now and going forward. But your first question on healthcare costs, we saw about $1.2 million favorable adjustment on the cost and really as you think about that that has to do with the program becoming more mature as we get more information, and quite frankly the cost expectations, that this like the casualty insurance program is based on we have an actuarial information that is put together and that assesses this, and the original assumption that we had were ended up not seeing the number of claims at this point or the severity of those claims being as we may have thought or certainly assumed that there will when the program was put into place and now we're starting to get a little more comfortable as the program becomes more mature.

With that, what I would say is that from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year that can change based on the number of claims that you get in the severity of those claims. So we're cautiously optimistic that we hope that the trends we're seeing will continue, but once again having said that, the way these things work is that you could get claims that could go on when the number of claims that you don't expect or the severity could change as well so. That's how we describe healthcare cost.

As it relates to casualty, what I would say is that this relates to prior year losses, the $1.9 million swing that we saw in the first quarter of 2015 relative to 2014, really the way to think about that is, is that once again an actuary we actually does, looks at all the information and looks at our liability and makes the calculation. There are some other things that could have impacted that would have been prior year losses that you know we think the liability is less and there is a favorable change, some of it could have been due to the fact that we had you know some improved performance we'd like to think that in 2014, that helped as well. And then as I mentioned earlier, certainly as we look going forward, safety and risk management across the company is now a major pillar and a major thing that the company is tackling because that really does have an impact for us and this is an area we can really make a long-term impact based on the number of claims how quick and how well we process those claims and things like that. And maybe Marc can add to that as well.

Sure. And let me, before I do, I'll just make one comment on the health plans, because we're still in the early days as Vance indicated of operating self-insured health plans and one of the variables that impacts the financial performance of the health plans is the level of participation that we achieve and obviously most companies are still facing the kind of settling out of what the world looks like in the post ObamaCare scenario and for us what we have found at least so far in 2015 is that we get higher participation than we expected and if that continues, you know then that usually is a good – that's good development from the point of view of the financial performance of the health plans independently of claims. But whether or not that is sustainable or not, whether some of that increased participation is at locations that we retain or don't retain is very hard for us to forecast. So I think this is an area where there will be for a while some movements that are going to be hard to forecast and hopefully though at least when they happen, they're going to be favorable, but we can't guarantee that obviously.

On the risk management side for the casualty programs, we did bring in a new leader of the risk management area very late last year and asked him to take a fresh look at all of our risk management programs. The levels of coverage that we have, how our third-party administrators operate, what is our safety culture, how that we motivate the correct behaviors out in our organization to prevent accidents and identify on safe conditions and all of that is kicking off now. And as we look forward over the next couple of years, we're going to expect to see positive movement in our total cost of risk.

How big that will be it is very, very hard to predict. But at least in terms of the things that we can control directly, I'm confident that we are now pulling on all the levers to incentivize our organization to make bringing down the total cost of risk a major component of what we do every day. The benefits we got in the first quarter of 2015 as Vance indicated really relate to 2014 and so are not reflective, I don't think yet of any of those kinds of changes that we're just starting to implement now. But I will say this, and this is not unusual, our casualty programs have been structured and our estimates of costs are based on a presumption that over time the costs will come down. That has been our long-term historical experience.

What we saw over the past couple of years were costs moving the other direction and so, and 2014 was one of the years where we had the most unfavorable movement, 2013 was kind of similar. So to a certain extent, my own sort of subjective assessment of it is that what we're seeing now is maybe a little more of a return to norm and particularly because we have more normal weather so far this year, that helps a lot; when the actuaries see horrific weather and a spike in claims like we had in early 2014, they start to become very conservative about estimating. And so I think that kind of factored in to the estimates that were made during 2014 and the results that we reported last year. So hopefully, those positive trends will continue, but as you know from following our business for some time, these kinds of things can move both directions, sometimes by large amounts, but at least we're getting the kind of performance on the casualty programs that we would like to – and that we expect to have happen for us.

Okay. That's helpful. Thanks for all the detail on that. And I know that that variable is indeed unpredictable a little bit, but to the degree that it seems that we're kind of behind all the noise that we had the last couple of years as we went through all the integration, while there are still some ongoing integration costs and we still have some of the structural repair activity going on there, hopefully, I believe, should be, if I recall correctly, done by the end of the year, it seems like things should be a little bit more stable and your new business wins that you've been able to win, I think, show a little bit more that we have a little bit more resources going towards growth as opposed to just all the distractions from the integration. Just wondering if you could comment a little bit in terms of how you see that in your own words of being able to move forward after having some degree of disruption the last couple of years with a lot of integration issues?

That's a great question, Nate. And I think generally I would agree with your observations. Certainly, a merger integration of the scale that we attempted and succeeded at doing is a major distraction for people at all levels of the business. And in particular, the people in the field organization who we ask to go get new business, we ask them to maintain client relationships, we ask them to operate their facilities to a high standard and at the same time adapt to massive change in their systems, processes and reporting. And so that there is no doubt that there was a major distraction for the organization.

Now while all of that was going on we did set the stage over the two years to be able to grow faster and we did that by ensuring that we put added resources in our business development organization, that we trained people from both companies on our capabilities because we obviously have expanded array of things that we can do. We want to people to be able to go on and sell those things successfully. The growth in the municipal area that I talked about earlier has led us to add resources there. I think we've added two or three full time people to that area over the past six months just in recognition of the growth of that area. We're also adding additional resources in our hospitality area, because that represents another major growth area for us.

So we are clearly making sure that in the areas where we see the most potential for growth, the institutional space which includes airports, the hospitality space, the large event space, we're ensuring that we provide the resources, that those elements of our business really need to be able to grow and to be able to invest in these long-term multi-year processes as I talked about, there is the lead times in the amount of investment that is needed, in some cases, over a couple year period.

We are also expanding our investment in the marketing area. One of the things the combined company has a fairly large and probably one of the largest marketing functions of anybody that does what we do. And yeah, we're giving them additional resources as consumer start to change the way that they interact with parking equipment or parking decisions that they make, we're putting more marketing resources out into our business, so that as we are getting in front of clients, we're able to differentiate what we do and offer our creative solutions to clients that other competitors are not doing.

Fabulous, I appreciate it. And I'll have a few more questions, but I'll turn it on over and get back in queue.

Thanks Nate. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question or comment comes from the line of David Gold with Sidoti & Company. Your line is now open.

Hey, good morning.

Good morning, David.

Good morning.

So just to follow-up a tiny bit, not to beat the dead horse, Marc, I'm not sure if I caught on the health care piece, or Vance if you gave the actual number for what the benefit was maybe year-to-year?

Yeah, we did a few minutes ago; it was $1.2 million, earlier.

Okay. Perfect. And then part two is, I mean I know you gave – you talked a little bit about some of the things, the pluses and minuses. But from where you sit today presumably, as I guess the actuaries look at it, I guess I'd like to get a sense, presumably we must think this is sustainable, right? And I guess the question is, on that, beyond the $1.2 million, how much do you think on an ongoing basis we would have? So in other words, to the extent that some of that is sort of reversal and accruals, how much on an ongoing basis of savings do we think there is?

Well David, I think what we said a few minutes ago was that just to answer your question is, we, one, are moving from a – we just the last couple of years put in place a effectively a self-insured type healthcare insurance program. We're now starting to see that program hopefully get to a little bit more maturity. You have to kind of wait a number of quarters until you feel confident, start to feel confident that you have more mature program.

And having said that, what we've seen so far is that we've seen that the number of claims and the severity of those claims has been less than what we and our actuaries would have been anticipated, a product when we put the full program into place.

Now going forward, we're cautiously optimistic that we will continue to see somewhat similar trends, but the reality of it is that we don't really know for sure, because the number of claims that could fit in any one time, the severity of those claims could cause our liability to go up. And so that's the way I think that we would characterize it.

And the only thing I would add is, I made the comment about enhanced or expanded enrollment, that's an important feature, because obviously unknown in the kind of ObamaCare world is to what extent are the penalties that people face for not buying insurance motivating them to buy insurance. And nobody really knows yet how that's all going to play out. It's clearly the people that had illnesses and are likely to be using insurance are going to make the decision of buying insurance. And so we're going to always give those people participating in the medical plan with what a healthy medical plan set-up needs, are people there are healthy and may not use the medical plan services will also participate. So I think we're encouraged by the higher participation that we saw in the 2015 enrollment. But whether or not those people stay with it, as the monthly premiums come out of their pay checks or whether they make other decision, we don't yet know, and how that plays out will have an impact on the financial performance of the health plan, independent of what our claims experience is.

Sure. Sure. Well, maybe – can you give us some framework, because I'm still at a little bit of a loss here. So let me just ask it a different way. When you began implementing the self-insurance program, what type of savings were sort of baked in there, so once it's fully implemented, when you thought about the benefits, what kind of savings might we see or might you guys see once we're fully up and running and folks have signed on?

Yeah, that's impossible to give David. There is a tendency to think of the health plans as being like the casualty plan, because they are both self-insured. But they couldn't be more different. There is nothing that we can really do that's going to drive the level of claims. That's just going to happen.

That wasn't the question though Marc. The question was, presumably you did an assessment on the program before you implemented it, right, to see what type of savings Standard Parking might see by implementing this, right? I mean if it were a bigger cost driver, you wouldn't have done it. So I guess really more trying to get a sense for what type of savings one expected by doing this, if you expected it to cost you more money, I can't imagine you would have it into place.

No, we didn't expect it to cost more money, but we didn't really go down this path because we thought there would be a giant savings. It's much easier to operate a fully insured medical plan. The challenge for us, as the businesses given our size and population that we have, the cost of our fully-insured plan would have been substantial. I should say that the pre-merger Standard was not a full insured plan and we're having trouble maintaining that plan and not taking gigantic costs as ObamaCare was rolling out. Central had already been on us, self-insured plan and so the decision to really go the self-insured route was really more about mitigating potential increases in costs as opposed to setting ourselves up for cost reductions.

Got you. Okay. That's helpful. And then one other, as we look at Parkmobile, can you give a little bit of an update there as to when – a little bit of, you know, say the planned trajectory and what the thinking is there as to when it may be a profit driver?

Yeah, that's obviously like any business there is a need to kind of anticipate what might happen into the future. What I can say is that they are well underway in integrating on the legacy Parkmobile platform and the Click and Park platform that we contribute to that business and they are out there aggressively selling the capabilities of their combined platform. We are pushing in our own organization to expand the use of the Parkmobile functionality to our clients, because we obviously think there is tremendous value in offering that out as an alternative means of paying for parking instead of the old way of pulling tickets and putting credit cards in machines. But in terms of how quickly they are going to get to that point, it's hard to estimate right now. I would say, Parkmobile is a fairly young business and like many young businesses, they are making investments in technology and expansion of their platform and capabilities to enable the growth that we continue to believe is there for that business. And so I would say, all I can say for certain is that we're not expecting it to contribute positively for our bottom line in 2015, but beyond that we haven't formed a more clearer picture of when that might happen.

Got you. All right, that's helpful. Thank you both.

Thanks David.

And our next question or comment comes from the line of Kevin Steinke with Barrington Research. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Hey as you think about the 6% same-location growth in gross profit during the quarter, do you have a sense as to how much that might have benefited from the weaker year-ago quarter from weather?

Yeah, you know, Kevin, this is Vance and thanks for joining the call and asking the question. So yeah I think that as we kind of mentioned in our opening comments, we do believe that was a factor. Clearly, the first quarter of 2014 was one that we saw more of a significant impact of whether it was more vast in terms of the areas that it impacted us. So tough to kind of really calculate year-over-year the relative change in the impact of weather, but having said that, we do believe that less weather impact in the first quarter of 2015 helped contribute to that 6% growth in same locations.

So let me just add a little to what Vance has said. First of all, we had worse weather in some of our markets. And so New York and Boston in particular I would say had worse weather this winter and we certainly saw that in the performance of those markets relative to 2014. So the picture for 2015 isn't all rosy weather conditions. It is very, very hard to estimate how much is weather and how much is all the other variables that go on in a market. But our belief is that in aggregate clearly the weather was not as severe through many parts of the country as 2014 saw extensive ice storms and other problems in the Southeast in particular where we had a lot of [ph] dislocations (37:15) and we didn't see that again in 2015.

So I think as we look at our business, we've talked about our expectations for gross profit growth. We want to be in 5% to 7% range, obviously more would be nice, but I think we are targeting that range for our business. We have gotten close to that the past couple of quarters, we've been hovering around 4%. So it's nice to see this uptick. I'd like to believe that our underlying weather adjusted gross profit growth in the quarter was right in that realm where we've been the last couple of quarters. I hope it's more, but I'm certainly feeling that at least a couple of percent of the growth that we had in the quarter was due to just improved weather year-on-year.

Okay. Thanks for the color. And in terms of the new contract with Los Angeles, how sizable is that expected contribution in terms of gross profit relative to your overall contract portfolio; I mean, is it at the larger end?

Not necessarily. As we've talked before, the larger more complex arrangements that we enter into to provide services, whether that's a large complex meter contract or whether that's an airport, or an office campus, we tend to be compensated better than on obviously a surface lot or a commercial office building. That's a general statement. But in the municipal realm, there is a public bidding process. And there are several criteria that a municipality will use to make a decision about who to select to provide services, and certainly price is one of those. We don't attempt, we've talked about this for some time, to be the low bidder. But you can't be oblivious to what other people might bid or what the incumbent is being paid because some of the services that we've been awarded were provided by another company for many years. And so, there is public information around what they are being paid for those services. So the total value of the contract award is like $27 million, but that obviously includes all the expenses that we're going to be incurring to operate the contract. So we don't disclose gross profit from a typical contract. But given that we spent three years trying to win this deal, I think it's safe to say that we felt that it was a worthwhile investment of our time and energy.

Okay, great. And Vance, you mentioned in your prepared comments I believe a $1.5 million increase from performance payments or payouts due to the better performance thus far in the year. How should we think about that impacting the G&A run rate as we go through 2015?

Yeah. So I think the way to think about it is, is that first we given that we've now guided to the higher end of the range – for the higher end of range I think that with that one would expect that are performance-based compensation which is tied to that will be a little higher and that hits G&A and so we saw that really in the first quarter. If you may recall, as we talked about just a minute ago, in the first quarter 2014 that was a much more challenging quarter for us given the weather impact and other things, but primarily the weather impact in the first quarter of 2014, so there was a year-over-year swing for our compensation programs of about $1.5 million that took place. It's tough to really kind of – it really depends on our performance, but we would expect that we would have slightly higher compensation costs throughout the rest of the year based on what we expect now to be improved performance for the year overall.

Okay, thanks. And I just wanted to...

Kevin I would just add...

Yeah.

...that you know the way to think about it which we're probably picking up is that obviously we're very focused in reducing cost and indeed what we saw in the first quarter of 2015 and what we'd expect going forward is notwithstanding any increases in compensation cost that our absolute G&A dollars will be coming down.

Okay. And that – yeah that was actually my next question. I mean absolute G&A in terms of – on an adjusted basis coming down, ex-the performance bump or on...?

Yeah Kevin, yeah. So the way that, you know, we – when we originally discuss this and I think on the fourth quarter of 2014 conference call, we said that, you know, the absolute G&A costs which we were inferring that that would have been our reported costs, in 2014, we would expect to come down as we go into 2015 and we move forward. And we still believe that that's the case and obviously are very focused on taking out costs, not only in G&A, but also in cost of parking as well.

All right. But that's the reported number you're talking about, including the merger and integration expenses, et cetera?

Yeah. So I mean that's how we've thought about it. One, just because we would expect merger and integration cost to come down, and then two we would you know to continue to reduce our cost, and so – and obviously when we thought about that, we also thought about the potential for some increased compensation costs. But, once again we stick with the fact that we expect the cost to come down on an absolute basis relative to the reported G&A that we had in 2014.

Okay, good. One last question for me, just maybe an update on, you've talked about in the past, you have an operational excellence group out there looking to improve performance at existing locations. Any update on how that's going, any benefits you are seeing from that effort?

Certainly, happy to talk about that. Probably, the most notable thing is that we expanded the size of that group significantly in 2015 from 2014. We close to doubled the size of it. So I think we now have seven people working full time on that and we'll expand it more if we feel that the opportunity is there for us to do something. One of the things that we have focused a lot on this year is making sure that the operational excellence group is covering a larger part of our portfolio and so we set some very aggressive targets for them and are expecting more than doubling in the number of locations that they are going to visit this year. We are continuing to see the same kind of impact that we've seen before where when we compare the locations that they work at compared to our other locations we tend to see greater revenue growth and greater gross profit growth than at existing locations. So continue to see this as a valuable area for our business and we'll continue to add resources to that group until we reach a point where we don't see that the value is there for us.

Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you, Kevin.

Thank you, Kevin.

And I'm showing no further questions or comments at this time. So with that said, I will like to turn the call over to Mr. Marc Baumann.

Yeah, thank you, Andrew. And more importantly thank you to all of you for joining us today, and taking an interest in our company and our results. We really appreciate the opportunities to explain our performance for the first quarter and we look forward to speaking to you again next quarter. Thank you and have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may now disconnect.