corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


G. Marc Baumann
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & EVP


James A. Wilhelm
 
– President & Chief Executive Officer


Other Participants


Nate Brochmann
 
– Research Analyst, William Blair & Co. LLC


David Gold CFA
 
– Senior Equity Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC


Giri Krishnan
 
– Analyst, Credit Suisse (United States)


Clint Fendley
 
– Research Analyst, Davenport Securities


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Standard


Parking Earnings Conference Call. My name is Amy, and I will be your operator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Marc Baumann,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Parking. Please proceed, sir.


G. Marc Baumann, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & EVP


Thank you, Amy, and good morning, everybody. As Amy just said, I’m Marc Baumann, Chief


Financial Officer of Standard Parking and I’m your primary Investor Relations contact. Welcome to


our conference call for the first quarter of 2011. I hope all of you have had a chance to review our


earnings announcement, which we released last evening.


We’ll begin our call today with a brief overview by Jim Wilhelm, our President and Chief Executive


Officer, and then I’ll discuss some of the financials in a little more detail. After that we’ll open up the


call for the Q&A session.


During the call, we’ll make some statements that will be considered forward-looking, regarding the


company’s strategy, operations and financial performance. Those statements are subject to many


uncertainties in the company’s operations and business environment. I refer you to the complete


forward-looking statement disclosure in our earnings release, which is incorporated by reference for


purposes of this call. I’d also like to refer you to disclosures made in the company’s quarterly and


annual filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Finally, before we get started, I want to mention that this call is being broadcast live over the


Internet and can be accessed on the Investor Relations page of our website at standarparking.com.


A replay will be available for 30 days after the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jim.
corrected transcript


Standard Parking Corp.
 
STAN
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


James A. Wilhelm, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Marc, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning. As I said in the


release we issued last night, we’re obviously very pleased with the results of the first quarter.


Statistically, we saw a 5% growth in same-store location profit as we’ve seen parking volumes


recover at many of our leased locations as evidenced by an 11% year-over-year increase in paid


exits at same-store leases. We saw particularly robust same location profit at our retail, mixed-use


hotel and free standing commercial operations. You’ve heard me talk almost for a year and half


now that those have been the slowest locations to recover. The trends are still somewhat mixed on


the commercial real estate side, but we did see some improvement in the first quarter.


Airports, depending on the market, were better in the first quarter. But it’s been a little more market


driven on the airport side. We’ve had seen some airports go backwards in the first quarter


depending on airline service agreements and decisions being made in the deregulated


environment, and increases in some airports. So if we look at the trends in the most recent


forecast, I think the aviation industry is somewhat mixed. There have been substantial downgrades


of forecast for international travel as a result of situations in Japan that we’ve all read about and


some other international issues, but domestic airline travel is forecasted at just a slight uptrend.


There haven’t been any significant changes in forecast, and we haven’t seen a whole lot of


significant increases or decreases across the North American airport sector other than those that


I’ve talked about. So, we are still somewhat guardedly optimistic about the economic recovery.


Our location operating profit retention remained strong at 91% and our operating profit retention


remains at 96% for the 12 months ending March 31st, which is good news. And as you might


surmise, it means that those locations that were losing continue to be less profitable than those that


we focus on retaining.


Our G&A expense came in 3% lower than last year as we continued to realize the fruits of the


technology investments that we’ve talked about over the last few years, and those investments


continue by the way.


We’re happy to report that we’ve commenced parking management enforcement and customer


service operations at Emory University in Georgia, and the University has already reported


significant improvement as revenues as well as improved customer feedback since we’ve taken


over these operations.


Our SP Plus Gameday success at Super Bowl XLV and other sporting events, we did NCAA bowl


games, the NHL All-Star games and others have been, again, well received and were several solid


operations for us, and those events that will recur on an annual basis. We have people on the


ground in London these days working towards securing agreements to provide services to the


London Organizing Committee for the Summer Olympic Games to be held in London. And by being


on the ground in London, we’ve also engaged in conversations with other European venues for


potential Gameday and Click and Park activity down the line.


So we’re real pleased with the efforts that our people have put forward to that effort, and we’re on


the longer term looking towards relationships in Rio and in Russia as well in terms of helping out


with those Olympic Games to be held in the future.


Our SP Plus Transportation Group announced is expanding our shuttle services in Hawaii on a


medical center complex that we run, which we think will lead to some other transportation


operations in Oahu. And we now have entered into the Salt Lake City marketplace by opening six


new locations in Salt Lake City in the past quarter, and that Salt Lake City is the city that we’d like


to be in and it leaves just a couple of target markets where we’d like to establish a footprint where


we don’t have one today.