Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shiv S. Kapoor — Vice President-Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Joseph W. Turgeon — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Kurt A. Gustafson — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Principal Accounting Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Francois Lebel — Chief Medical Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Thomas J. Riga — Executive VP, Chief Operating & Commercial Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Varun Kumar — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Edward White — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
Maury Raycroft — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Michael Schmidt — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Spectrum Pharmaceuticals' Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Call.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speaker presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker, Shiv Kapoor, Vice President-Strategic Planning and Investor Relations. Please, go ahead

Thank you. Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you for joining us today for Spectrum Pharmaceuticals' third quarter 2019 financial results conference call. Our press release is available on our website at www.sppirx.com.

Joe Turgeon, our CEO and President, will start the call and provide an overview; followed by a financial update from our CFO, Kurt Gustafson; and a discussion of our clinical development progress from our CMO, Dr. Francois Lebel.

Before we get started, I would like everyone to please refer to the notice regarding forward-looking statements included in our – in today's press release. This notice emphasizes the major uncertainties and risks inherent in the forward-looking statements that we will be making this afternoon. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and undue reliance should not be placed on them. Such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from any projections of future performance or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements

With that, let me hand the call over to Joe.

Thank you, Shiv, and good afternoon. Welcome to everybody on the call. I appreciate your interest in Spectrum. And we remain highly focused on our late-stage assets, poziotinib and ROLONTIS.

So, let me begin with updates on our progress. The poziotinib program, which targets hard-to-treat mutations in lung cancer, is in full swing. We have a broad development program to exploit its full potential, and are pleased with enrollment. We are expecting results from the first cohort of the ZENITH20 trial in December. Dr. Francois will give you a comprehensive update of our standard poziotinib program in just a few minutes.

ROLONTIS is our late-stage drug being developed for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. As you recall, we voluntarily withdrew our BLA application earlier this year. Since then, we worked closely with the FDA and recently submitted a robust package. We look forward to competing in this market.

Let me give out the direction I'm moving this company. Our focus is crystal clear. We are developing two late-stage assets and expanding the pipeline. We made significant progress and have shifted from small niche products to higher value targets through divestiture of our legacy assets, advances in our late-stage products, and the acquisition of the FIT platform. We've focused on our strategic priorities and we are aggressively pursuing opportunities to expand our pipeline. With a growing pipeline, significant near-term milestones, solid capitalization and a highly focused team, we have a strong position to drive these programs forward.

With that, let me turn it over to Kurt to go over the financials.

Thanks, Joe.

Let's start with continuing operations. Our SG&A expense for the third quarter of 2019 was $13.1 million versus $17.2 million in the previous quarter. R&D expense was $17.2 million versus $17 million in the previous quarter. And our net loss from continuing operations was $26.6 million versus $28.8 million in the prior quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, which primarily backs out stock compensation costs, our loss for the quarter was $24.5 million. This quarter, income from discontinued operations was $572,000, relates to the commercial business that we sold to Acrotech.

As we look ahead, we continue to expect R&D expenses to increase as we expand clinical development in manufacturing for poziotinib and ROLONTIS.

We ended the quarter with $252 million in cash plus marketable securities, giving us plenty of runway to continue the development and commercialization of our late-stage assets.

With that, let me now hand the call over to Francois to cover updates on our clinical programs.

Thanks, Kurt. Hello, everyone.

And I'm going to start by providing an update regarding our late-stage asset, poziotinib. Our primary focus remains investigating poziotinib for the treatment of exon 20 insertion mutation in non-small cell lung cancer. Exon 20 mutations are among the most difficult to treat, and currently have no FDA-approved therapy. These patients and their physician are in critical need of effective treatment options.

ZENITH20 is a comprehensive multi-cohort study evaluating a broad range of lung cancer patients with specific mutations. Cohorts 1 to 4 are each independently powered with pre-specified statistical hypothesis, where the primary endpoint is objective response rate. The topline results from Cohort 1 evaluating poziotinib in previously treated EGFR patients with exon 20 insertion mutation are expected in December. Let me remind you, we have a world-class group of clinician scientists who are on our independent review committee who will rule on whether we met the primary endpoint of ORR based on the protocol. We expect to share this information with you in December.

Cohort 2, which is evaluating poziotinib in previously treated HER2 patients, reached full enrollment in Q2, six months ahead of schedule. We are pleased with the enrollment for Cohort 3 and 4, which we are evaluating first-line patients.

Based on promising preclinical data presented recently at world lung conference in Barcelona, three new cohorts, Cohorts 5, 6 7, were added to the study and are actively enrolling patients. Cohort 5 includes previously treated and treatment-naïve non-small cell lung cancer patients with EGFR and HER2 exon 20 insertion mutation. Cohort 6 includes lung cancer patients who are osimertinib-resistant. Cohort 7 includes lung cancer patients with a variety of atypical mutations.

In addition, we are collaborating with MD Anderson Cancer Center on an investigator-led basket study that will be evaluating poziotinib in various mutated solid tumors. This study has already enrolled its first patient. We are excited about the developments, especially when they will start to mature in the near future.

Now, shifting to ROLONTIS. ROLONTIS is a novel, long-acting GCSF, seeking an indication for the treatment of neutropenia and patients receiving myelosuppressive cancer therapy. On October 24th, we submitted an expanded BLA to the FDA. The withdrawal seven months ago was driven by Module 3 or the CMC section. Since then, we've had productive dialogue with the FDA. We implemented their guidance, provided additional data, and rewrote and reorganized certain sections of the file, resulting in a strong submission.

As a reminder our BLA is based on robust clinical data from two large pivotal, independent, randomized controlled trials. In both studies, ROLONTIS met the pre-specified endpoint of non-inferiority in duration of severe neutropenia, and now met all secondary endpoints. The safety profile was similar to pegfilgrastim.

Last week, at the ASCO Supportive Care in Oncology Symposium in San Francisco, we presented data from both pivotal Phase 3 trial, which included a total of 643 patients. The analysis provided integrated efficacy and safety data to clinicians that were consistent with result from the individual studies.

To summarize, we have an exciting late-stage oncology pipeline with important near-term milestone on poziotinib and ROLONTIS.

Now, let me turn it back to Joe.

Thank you, Dr. Francois, and thank you, Kurt.

Listen, I'd like to open it up for questions now, operator, if you could do that?

Of course. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Alethia Young with Cantor Fitzgerald. Your line is open.

Hi. Good evening, everyone. It is Varun Kumar for Alethia Young. First, on Cohort 1, when we think about durability, do you get a sense from regulatory agency that they are looking for a certain minimum duration? And are you confident that response rate is not – is the only hurdle that you'll get for approval?

Let me answer the first part. I want you to repeat the second. I didn't hear the second part, but let me answer the first part. First, thanks for the question.

When it comes to duration, when you have an agreement with the agency, you don't get a specific number. In other words, you don't get a hard number that says you have to be X amount of duration. What it is clinically meaningful is what they give you, for the exact wording. So, what we have to – that's negotiable, depending on the unmet need, etcetera. And so, the word that we'll have to negotiate with the agency at the end is, is it clinically meaningful or not.

And what was the second part of your question?

Yes, it was on the response rate. So, it looks like the response rate certainly is the criteria. But it requires supporting durability along with it, right, if I understand it correctly?

Yeah. Obviously, there are three things that any drug is going to be looked at, right. First of all is your primary endpoint, it happens to be overall response rate in this particular trial. Second, would be, as you said, duration PFS. Then, the third thing they'll look at is the safety profile of the drug. So, that would be the three things that they would look at.

And maybe, a second question on, if you can remind us the frequency of scans in the study and how does it compare to MD Anderson's study previously done?

Sure. So, the frequency in the MD Anderson's study was every eight weeks. We have introduced in this trial a first scan at four weeks. And then, the second scan is at eight weeks. And thereafter, it's all eight weeks. So, that should help us in detecting early response and being able to document them accurately.

Thank you very much. And maybe, just the last one. Once we have the data in December from Cohort 1, how does that affect your confidence for the next Cohort 2, which is HER2, and I think the data you expect in mid next year?

Yes. So, you have to remember, the first four cohort are independently – they're all independent of one another. So, they have different set of assumption for statistical test of hypothesis. And so, weighing in one may not influence the other cohort and/or losing in one would also be independent of the other cohorts.

I think the other thing I would add there is Cohorts 1 and 2 is pre-treated patient or previously treated. But you got to remember that Cohort 3 and 4 is significantly different patient population, which is first-line. And obviously, that's recruiting well. We're continuing to be very optimistic about that.

And also, I'd like to remind you that the FDA allowed us to start the treatment of treatment-naïve patient here. [ph] And as we answer (00:13:50) for that as a good sign, that they all want to wait necessarily to – as the final answer in Cohort 1 is due. So, we're really optimistic about all of them, and can't wait to print the card, if you want, in December.

Thank you very much, and thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Ed White with H.C. Wainwright. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey, Ed.

Hey. So, maybe we could just start with the basket study for poziotinib. I know it just started. I'm just wondering if you have any idea where the first indication will be when you're looking at the preclinical and clinical data that you have on poziotinib now? I know you're running the basket to see where it's going to be, where you think it'll be most effective. But I'm just wondering if you have any idea right now what indications would be first in your mind?

Right. I think we would provide you additional indication or additional information on a later date. I think we just want to say today that, in collaboration with MD Anderson, a basket study has opened – not only opened, but enrolled its first patient. And it's not posted yet on ClinicTrial.gov (sic) [ClinicalTrials.gov] (00:15:26). We anticipate that will occur very soon. But until that's done, I don't kind of want to say any more than that.

Okay, fair enough, Francois. And then, as I always do, I typically ask about any changes in the ROLONTIS setting. And since the last time we spoke, there has been another biosimilar proof. Has anything been changing in the market or is it progressing as expected? And you still – and I just want to get your thoughts on that?

Hey, Ed. It's Tom Riga. How are you.

Good, Tom. How are you?

Good. Thanks. You saw the news, the next biosimilar has entered the market. We're monitoring that closely. I think that market is a dynamic one, as you have another entrant of biosimilars into it. But we remain confident, as we have consistently said, of having a BLA file which is not through the 351(k) pathway. It's a novel asset, provides us some unique opportunities as it relates to controlling our own destiny as the levels of access and reimbursement, lifecycle management of the asset. And we're thrilled to have submitted the BLA in October, and anxiously await that action date so that we can ultimately get this product approved by the agency and be able to enter that market.

Great, thanks. Thanks, Tom. And maybe, coming back just on poziotinib and the competitor TAK788. We've seen a lot of data from both now. And just want to think about your thoughts on how far ahead you think you are going to be at launch? And how you're going to position – based on that data we know now, how you're thinking of positioning the drug to take maximum share or to maintain maximum share actually since you're in the lead?

Yeah. I'll start now, and Dr. Francois can talk about data also if he wanted to. But let me tell you this, Ed. As far as positioning, I'm excited that we're turning over our card, we're not just starting our trials. We've got two fully enrolled registrational trials with data, which we just said, in December, we are flipping that card. So, the first thing I'll say, positioning first to market means a lot. Been through a lot of launches, and first to market gives you a great advantage here. So, we're looking forward to that. If the data are good, we would meet with the agency and hopefully file.

I can't speak – I can only speak to ours. I'll monitor the other products. [ph] Is it good? (00:18:22) I can tell you this, I'm not surprised that you see other potential products. Looking at the market, this shows the unmet need. It is truly an unmet need here. It's a large group of patients that need help, as we said. Like you asked about the basket, we may be even expanding there.

So, the bottom line is we'll monitor any and all other [indiscernible] (00:18:44) products. I can tell you that we have two fully enrolled cohorts, and we're really happy with the Cohorts 3 and 4 that are enrolling, and actually following the science for three more cohorts. So, we're well on – we're well ahead here. I can't give an exact date on anything other than I'm pleased with the position we're in.

Okay. Thanks, Joe.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Maury Raycroft with Jefferies. Your line is now open.

Hi, everyone. Congrats on the progress. And thanks for taking my questions.

Hi, Maury.

Thanks for the clarity – hi. Hi, Joe. Thanks for the clarity. And having the date end in December, just wondering if you can say if the database is locked? And any more granularity in whether it would be earlier or later in December?

So, we're not giving you an exact date, and neither can I answer whether or not the database is locked.

Remember, this is the data, the central imaging lab is in the process of analyzing some of the data and is being sent. When the analysis is complete, it's going to be sent to an independent data review committee who will, in turn, after examining, conducting the analysis, potentially asking a number of questions, then would disclose to us whether or not we've met the primary endpoint.

Got it, okay. And as far as for that review board, I was just wondering if you could provide any more specifics on how many people are involved in the independent review board? And what kind of questions could – what are they going to be looking at to come up with a unified decision? And what kind of questions could come out of that?

Yeah. So, the analyses are pre-specified in the protocol. And there is a statistical analysis planned that gives a lot more details, so we're not going to disclose that. But this is all laid out on paper, if you want, as guidance to the IDRC, which is the independent board. And they have the ability to request to review some of the scans if they want, and that's supported. We absolutely want to be forthcoming if there's any question, that the central imaging lab would provide them access to whatever they want to arrive at their final decision and final recommendation to us.

And, Maury, I'll just add. You asked the who; I'll just tell you, they're renowned oncologists who deal with non-small cell lung cancer, know it inside-out. So, they're right people to evaluate the outcome.

Got it. Okay, okay. And then, and so, they make a decision, they give you guys a general answer to that decision? Or are they going to give you overall response rate and additional data? And then, what could we end up expecting. What could end up in the press release that you guys put out, what kind of specifics should we expect in there, I guess?

Yeah. So, the remaining task is again to – there are detailed guidance. But the main, the fundamental decision or recommendation they make is relates to whether or not the overall response rate met the pre-specified endpoint, [ph] lower balance (00:22:26), etcetera, that was stipulated in the protocol. That's their task, that's what they will do. And so, we look forward to receiving that. And I can't remember if there was another angle to your question there?

Well, you asked what the press release would say, I think you said, Maury. Obviously, you got to know, did we hit the primary endpoint or not, the ORR? You'll know that. You'll know some – there'll be some comment on duration and safety. So, I think you'll have not all the information from the study because we want to present that at the meeting, but I think you'll have the primary endpoint did we hit or not, some comment on duration PFS [ph] and/or some (00:23:10) comment on safety also. I think that's safe to say.

Perfect, okay. Okay. And then, last question is just on ROLONTIS. Are you going to do a press release when the BLA is accepted for ROLONTIS? And then, any comments on whatever issues were addressed to give you guys confidence to resubmit?

Well, I'll start. We will certainly let you know when we have a PDUFA date. I think that's safe to say.

And the second part was – what was the second part of your question, I'm sorry?

Just if you're providing any more clarity on the manufacturing issues that were addressed to give you guys confidence to refile again?

Hey, Maury. It's Tom Riga. We have not provided more detail than what was in the prepared remarks. We worked closely with the agency. We implemented their guidance. We feel that we've learned from their feedback and have put together a strong package, and look forward to that action date.

Fair enough okay. Okay. Well, congrats again, and thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you, Maury.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Michael Schmidt with Guggenheim. Your line is now open.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Maybe just a follow-up on Cohort 1 of the ZENITH study, just operationally I suppose. I guess, what triggers the analysis? Is it a certain pre-specified follow-up period or is that another trigger that would trigger the actual analysis?

Yes. The cut-off date for analysis was triggered by adding a minimum six months follow-up on the last patient that was entered in the study.

Understood. Okay. And is that follow-up the same for the exon 20 HER2 population or is it different for that stuff, for that cohort?

So, it is – Cohort 2, we have not provided any indication other than say that we would have a topline data release mid-year in 2020.

Okay. And then, a question regarding frontline patient populations. I know the Cohort 3 and 4 are still enrolling. But I guess, assuming – or should you meet the primary endpoint or the endpoint in Cohort 1, I suppose, how do think about accessing the first-line market longer term? I guess, what type of trial designs might be adequate to get to frontline exon 20 patients?

Yeah. I think that's an excellent question. Obviously, we're going to seek guidance here. It's going to depend, obviously, on the results that we got to get in cohort 1. And we'll very much engage the FDA to try to understand what their expectation is and if it's changed from original. But obviously, if it's a highly positive result, then we would have to discuss with the FDA. For ethical reason, we need to have a look at the data sooner. But right now, we can't. We'll have to see the data first.

That's great. Thank you. And then, just maybe regarding ROLONTIS, it's probably far to assume a standard review. Is that correct? And then, the follow-up would be, how do you think about, I guess, what size – to what degree do you need to build a commercial infrastructure? I guess, how would you size that to commercialize the drug in the US?

Yeah. It's just standard review, Michael. That 10-month review, I think, that's [indiscernible] (00:27:30).

Tom, why don't you mention on the [indiscernible] (00:27:33)?

Yes. So, Michael, the submission was the 24 standard review, you get back into, call it, Q4-ish 2020 timeline. Typically, a commercial build-out, six months, somewhere a bit sooner than that when you start building up that infrastructure. We have always prided ourselves on being a lean operation when it comes to FTEs, and we will look to build an adequate yet resourceful and scrappy commercial function. But we would look to start that about six months prior.

Michael, we have mentioned this to you in the past. I'll remind you that when we sold our inline products to [indiscernible] (00:28:20), we did hold back some key leadership that are experienced with both this marketplace and also in putting together sales teams, etcetera. So, we do have a jumpstart on that already by having people here who know how to do that.

Sounds good. Well, thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you. And we have a follow-up question from Ed White with H.C. Wainwright. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the follow-up. There was no comments in the prepared remarks on the Focused Interferon Therapeutics platform. I was just wondering if you can give us a brief update there? Thanks.

Sure, Ed. So, as you know, we utilize this asset and there was a Phase 1 dose-escalation study that I have been underway. So, we have been working very closely with investigators to restart that study and examine in great detail all the work that has been done so far, preclinical, clinical; as well as consider whether or not the protocol needs to be amended, etcetera. So, there is active interaction with UCLA at this point. They're mainly who have the licensing – that we licensed it from, I believe, including Pittsburgh University and Pittsburgh [indiscernible] (00:29:59).

So, we're actively working with them on that first asset. You got to remember, there are potentially more than one asset that could be derived out of this platform. We know that they are – were interested in heat-shock protein preclinically. And there are also I referred to as the UCLA freezer, where there are a number of drug candidates that are there. And we've been strengthening our team to develop algorithm to go through these assets, so that we pick the right ones to file an IND with and create additional preclinical data.

So, a lot more to come in the future. And so, there's just lot of activity. And it's an early asset, so we obviously wanted to focus on our late-stage asset in terms of update.

Great. Thank you, Francois.

Sure.

And I am not showing any further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to Joe Turgeon for any further remarks.

Yeah. Thank you, operator.

Hey, again, thank you to everybody. I'm really pleased with our crystal clear focus on progress. And exciting times, I'm looking forward to turning the card over in December. And we're going to [ph] let us see (00:31:28) the early poziotinib data and that was from – the data from Cohort 1. And also, that looking forward to that PDUFA date. So, thank you for your interest, and we'll talk to you all soon.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.