Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shiv S. Kapoor — Vice President, Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Joseph G. Turgeon — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Kurt A. Gustafson — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Principal Accounting Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Thomas J. Riga — Chief Operating Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Adnan Butt — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
David George Buck — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Matthew J. Andrews — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Edward White — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Fourth Quarter 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Shiv Kapoor, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Thanks. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today for Spectrum's fourth quarter 2017 financial results conference call. Our press release is available on our website at www.sppirx.com. Joe Turgeon, our CEO and President, will start the call today and provide an overview. This will be followed by a financial discussion by our CFO, Kurt Gustafson, and the discussion of our operations by our COO, Tom Riga.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and undue reliance should not be placed upon them. Such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from any projections of future performance or result expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

With that, let me hand the call over to Joe.

Thank you, Shiv, and thanks everybody for joining us on the call today and for your wanting to hear about Spectrum today. This is my first call addressing you as the CEO of Spectrum. It's an honor and a responsibility that I'm humbled to have. I thank the board for the appointment and I want to give the shareholders the confidence that I will drive in this organization forward with the focus, discipline, and accountability needed to take Spectrum to the next level of growth.

In addition, let me offer a perspective on how we'll execute these quarterly calls moving forward. I expect these calls to be concise, transparent, and focused around the key drivers of our progress. 2017 was a breakthrough year for Spectrum driven by significant advancements in our pipeline along with solid operational performance.

We continue to aggressively develop poziotinib and ROLONTIS which puts us in a position to start 2018 with strong momentum as we reach the important development milestones with both programs. The milestones at 2018 will provide significant insight in unlocking the potential value of these assets. Key goals for 2018 include first the aggressive development of poziotinib for exon 20 insertion mutations. This includes rapid enrollment of our multi-center study in non-small cell lung cancer, continued collaboration with MD Anderson, and working with the FDA on an optimal regulatory pathway.

This year, we expect to have new and updated data on response rates, duration of response, and PFS in both EGFR and HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations. In addition, we believe there is strong clinical potential of poziotinib across solid tumors where exon 20 insertion mutations exist. This is exciting.

Secondly, we plan to file the BLA for ROLONTIS in Q4 of this year. We have made significant progress in our development with ROLONTIS as we've just recently announced that we met the primary endpoint in our ADVANCE study and we have completed enrollment in our RECOVER study. We have over 600 patients enrolled in our Phase 3 program. We've recently announced top-line data on 400 patients and the team is now focused on completing the trials and preparing the BLA package for submission by the end of this year.

I believe 2018 will provide and prove to be another important year for our exciting late-stage assets.

Now, I'm going to hand over the call to our CFO, Kurt Gustafson, to talk about the financials.

Thanks, Joe, and good afternoon to everyone on the call today. I'll begin with some comments on revenue. Total revenues for the fourth quarter were $28.6 million and, of this, product sales were $27.9 million. I want to provide some clarity around our six marketed products. The strategy of the company has been to utilize the revenue from our commercial infrastructure to offset our development costs. Our marketed products are small oncology/hematology drugs that are either late in their life cycle or developed under the 505(b)(2) pathway that is inherently competitive.

Aggressive discounting from the generics has virtually eliminated the margin in FUSILEV and, as a result, we do not expect to sell much of this product going forward. EVOMELA sales are also negatively impacted by pricing pressures associated with the new generic entrants in the melphalan market. While we believe that we have a better product and will maintain a premium price, the pricing pressures are real, and we believe that fourth quarter sales are more reflective of what we will see from this product going forward.

As we look ahead to 2018, I expect product revenue to be between $90 million and $110 million due to the factors that I've just described. As we look ahead, we expect gross margins to improve, driven by a new manufacturing process for EVOMELA. We continue to expect R&D expenses to increase as we accelerate spending on our pipeline drugs, poziotinib and ROLONTIS. SG&A expenses were abnormally high in the fourth quarter due to a $7.1 million charge for one-time severance and legal costs associated with the termination of our former CEO.

We ended the year with $228 million in cash. Cash burn for the quarter was $20 million which included approximately $13 million burn from operations and $7 million worth of burn from financing activities as we repurchased a portion of our debt which was partially offset by some share issuance.

With that, let me turn the call over to Tom.

First, I want to thank you for following Spectrum. It's inspiring to be on the team and witness the progress since joining the company nearly five years ago. 2017 was a defining year for Spectrum in which our team delivered on several important milestones. In oncology, clinical data is the driver of our business and just in the past six months, we have seen exciting data on our late-stage assets. We have also executed on enrolling patients quickly in important trials.

The focus of our operations in 2018 will be surrounded by two main drivers, advancing the development of poziotinib and ROLONTIS. First, let me start with poziotinib. In the fourth quarter of 2017, preliminary data from a Phase 2 study at MD Anderson Cancer Center was presented at the World Conference on Lung Cancer in Japan. Promising data was presented with an unconfirmed partial response rate of 73% in the first 11 patients. These data are encouraging for patients who have very few options, if any.

As a reminder, poziotinib is being developed for patients who have non-small cell lung cancer with exon 20 insertion mutations in EGFR or HER2. These mutations cause steric hindrance in the binding pocket for tyrosine kinase inhibitors which result in limited activity in these mutations from existing TKIs. The prognosis for these patients is poor with median progression free survival of about two months. Current therapies are unsatisfactory and there is significant unmet need in this population.

It is hypothesized that poziotinib, due to its relatively small molecular size and flexibility, can circumvent steric hindrance related to exon 20 insertion mutations. We have initiated a company-sponsored Phase 2 study in October of last year. This trial will enroll up to 87 non-small cell lung cancer patients with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations and up to 87 patients with HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations. There are currently 12 sites activated with several more scheduled to open up this month.

The enthusiasm for this study is high among our investigators and the plan is to open between 40 and 50 sites this year with some of them being outside of the United States. The unmet need in this patient population is well recognized and we are having ongoing dialogue with the FDA to find the most expedient regulatory pathway.

In addition to lung cancer, poziotinib is also being studied as a single agent in a Phase 2 trial in third line setting with breast cancer patients who have failed other HER2-directed therapies. We continue to enroll our breast cancer trial and we'll keep you updated on the progress.

Additionally, we are initiating sites for a new second line study of poziotinib in combination with T-DM1 in women with advanced or metastatic HER2 positive breast cancer. We will provide more details on this study when we enroll our first patient.

Lastly, there is strong scientific interest, around the applicability of poziotinib in the mutation-specific tumor agnostic setting. We are currently working with MD Anderson and KOLs from around the globe to design a basket study that quickly addresses the usage of poziotinib in this [ph] setting (10:11).

2018 will present multiple opportunities for additional data that will provide greater insight into this promising asset. Throughout the year, there will be new and updated information on response rates, duration of response and PFS in both EGFR and HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations. First, a poster will be presented at AACR in Chicago on April 17 by MD Anderson. The focus of this poster will primarily be on preclinical data on HER2 exon 20 mutations.

Second, we expect one or more publications on poziotinib in major medical journals in 2018. And finally, World Lung in September and ESMO in October could provide a strong platform for additional data. As you can see, it's going to be a busy and exciting year in the development of poziotinib, and we will keep you posted on progress.

Moving on to ROLONTIS, our novel GCSF. Just over a month ago, we announced the ADVANCE study met its primary efficacy endpoint of non-inferiority in Duration of Severe Neutropenia between ROLONTIS and pegfilgrastim in over 400 patients. The adverse event profile was similar between the two treatment arms. We also announced that the RECOVER study has completed enrollment. The ADVANCE and RECOVER studies were similar in design. These two Phase 3 studies are multi-center, randomized and active-controlled studies with greater than 600 patients in total. The enrolled patients received chemotherapy every 21 days and ROLONTIS is administered subcutaneously as a fixed dose one per cycle.

The primary study endpoint is the Duration of Severe Neutropenia assessed through the absolute neutrophil counts in cycle one of chemotherapy based on the central laboratory assessment over the 21-day cycle.

Secondary endpoints include incidence of neutropenic complications, incidence of febrile neutropenia and safety. We expect to present the results from the ADVANCE study at a major medical meeting this year. Finally, we are working towards our pre-BLA meeting with the FDA to make sure that everything is aligned in preparation for our Q4 BLA submission. If approved, we will have the opportunity to compete in a multi-billion dollar market with a novel asset.

It's an honor to lead our team from development through commercialization of these promising late-stage assets that could fundamentally change our company and more importantly contribute to the betterment of cancer patients. We have multiple milestones this year and the operations team is laser-focused on maximizing the opportunity ahead.

I will now turn the call back over to Joe for closing remarks.

Thank you, Tom. Thank you also, Kurt and Shiv. And I'd like to now open it up to questions at this time.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Adnan Butt of Guggenheim. Your line is now open.

Hey. Thanks for the question and, Joe and team, congrats on the progress. I wanted to get – dig a bit deeper into the data presentation question. Are you saying that you don't expect any clinical data until World Lung or ESMO or is the press release saying that there could be some clinical data at AACR?

I'll start, Adnan. How are you? At AACR, we do know that there will be preclinical data presented on HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations from the MD Anderson trial [ph] most would be (14:23) preclinical. There may be a mention of the one compassionate use patient and actually [ph] in human (14:29). But for the most part, it's a preclinical presentation at AACR.

And then, Joe, the follow-up, I mean, how confident are you that data will be presented at World Lung or ESMO and not before then?

It's a great question. Let's study the facts. I know that from our trial, we won't have any data from the Spectrum trial, okay, to present this year at least because we've just started to enroll. Now, on the MD Anderson trial, because they own the data, I can't tell you if and when there'll be anything in between. Now, you're going to think of medical meetings [indiscernible] (15:15) potential publications that could come up, but that will come out of MD Anderson. For sure, I'm very confident. You asked for my confidence level, Adnan – I'm very confident at World Lung that you will see data, that's for sure I think is a pretty sure bet.

Okay. I'll just ask a second question then get back in line. In terms of the discussions with the FDA for poziotinib to look for an expedited plan, is there a specific set of data that the FDA is looking for and when will you have that data so you can update us on this expedited plan?

Hey, Adnan. It's Tom. How are you? Thanks for the question. We have had a preliminary meeting with the agency. We feel that we understand what their expectations are, but it's not – we typically aren't going to talk about those interactions with the agency but we did have the initial meeting.

So, does your Phase 2 include that expedited feedback or not at this time?

Our Phase 2 study is up to 87 patients and it's designed that way, but there hasn't been any modifications to the Phase 2 design with that feedback [ph] yet (16:35)

Adnan, I'll just add this. We've done extensive research and a homework on what it takes for breakthrough therapy, et cetera. We certainly feel that potentially we meet those criteria and we're going to work hard to go through the process to do [indiscernible] (16:54)

Okay. I'll get back in line. Thank you, folks. Congrats.

Thank you.

Thanks, Adnan.

Our next question comes from David Buck of B. Riley. Your line is open.

Yes. Thanks for taking the question. First one for Joe, can you talk a little bit about what changes you're looking to make at Spectrum as your CEO role and any – besides you're comment about conference calls? And what should we be expecting in terms of any changes in strategy potentially?

A quick one for Kurt just in terms of R&D, can you give some range of what you'd expect the 2018 R&D budget to be? And then just for ROLONTIS, can you maybe talk – maybe for Tom, just talk about where you'd expect that venue to be for – have some data for the first U.S. study [indiscernible] (17:51)

Hey, David. I'll take the first part. We'll go around the horn here. Thanks for the question.

Sure.

Well, one thing for sure I think – obviously, I'll have a different style. I'll start with that. I think you always have a different style with different people. I'm very data-driven, and I expect the company to make decisions based on science and data, and that's the way we will do it.

As far as our strategy goes with our two big projects, I was working on them in my old role as Operations. I think we have great strategies there. We are executing very well. I feel really good on enrollment. I feel good about our work towards filing the BLA with ROLONTIS. We're already doing everything we can to get that going in the right direction. With poziotinib, as you know, our trial is enrolling. We're going to be increasing our sites for poziotinib on the exon 20 insertion mutation. We just talked about we hope to take all the right steps to get us to a therapeutic breakthrough designation we hope. So, all of that is good. I'm a guy who expects accountability. I expect people to do their jobs, and I hold people very accountable.

One change I will mention, you may have seen the press release, we just added a person to the board. This person has great expertise that I think we'll need. He's an example of, I think, making the board better by having somebody who understands both the reimbursement and has worked with the federal government extensively. I think these are important factors as we go compete in these bigger markets. So, that's certainly something that's different. And I have a very focused mentality, and I will say we've made some changes in structure on several departments already and some people. So, in a nutshell, that's the first task of what we're doing and I'm excited about where we're going.

I'll let Kurt now answer the second question.

Yes. Thanks. So, David, what we've tried to do is give you some sales guidance. And then on the other areas, our guidance here is more directional in nature and is going to be a function of how aggressively we can enroll patients. So, I think we'll limit our guidance and the other items to what I'll call directional guidance.

Hey, David. It's Tom. Your question was on ADVANCE. We did submit to ASCO in February. We're waiting to hear back. So, once that decision is made, we'll know.

Got you. And maybe if I could sneak in one more question, just poziotinib ex-U.S. Can you talk about whether you've had any discussion with regulators there in terms of pathway forward?

I'll take that one. Right now, we have focused our regulatory discussions primarily with the FDA in the U.S., but we are looking to enroll ex-U.S. sites and we do have worldwide rights with the exception of China and South Korea. So, those conversations will begin shortly.

I'll add, David, we did at World Lung last year – we began discussions with KOLs in Japan. As you may know that in Japan, that the actual rate of occurrence is much higher for some reason in Japan. So, that's an important market for exon 20 insertion mutations. And we've begun discussions with the KOLs in Japan and they're pretty excited about it. So, that's good news.

Our next question comes from Matthew Andrews of Jefferies. Your line is open.

Hey. Good afternoon. A couple for me. Tom or Joe, just curious, I appreciate Dr. Heymach's [ph] control of the data (21:46). Any particular reason why he would not want to present possibly at the ASCO meeting versus waiting for World Lung Conference?

Hey, Matt. It's Tom. I want to be careful not to speak for Dr. Heymach here, but I'm thinking this comes down to the maturity of the data and wanting a comprehensive data set to present in totality. A lot of the questions that initially came out of Japan are leading him to want to have a total set, and I think that's likely the thinking. But again, I'm just cautious speaking for him.

Yes. I agree. I think Tom's spot-on.

Okay. Thank you. That makes sense. And then, just on ROLONTIS and the RECOVER study, what's the relative sizing of this to ADVANCE? Memory serves it's a bit smaller. So, based on the primary endpoint, how well powered are you to be able to meet it for non-inferiority? I think there's healthy margin there that you should be able to replicate the data from ADVANCE announced in February.

Yes. The short answer to your question is yes. But the ADVANCE study is just over 400 patients; RECOVER, just over 200. And the RECOVER study is 87% powered. So, we're feeling that we have ample power to answer the question.

Okay. Great. Thank you, guys.

Thanks, Matt.

Thanks, Matt.

Our next question comes from Ed White of H.C. Wainwright. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. So, just a couple here. The first one is on the poziotinib breast cancer study that you guys are running. I know the first cohort of 32 patients were treated with 24 milligrams once-daily, two weeks and one week off. And then the second cohort that you mentioned hasn't started yet, has enrolled the first patient, that's the 16 milligram continuous dosing. I'm just wondering on the first cohort, are you going to release the data from that and when will we see that data, if you are?

Yes. Good question. Actually, it was 33, Ed. How are you doing by the way? There were 33 in the first cohort, and you're right, it was at a 24 milligram dose and it was a two weeks on, one week off on the schedule, and we did switch to a 16 continuous. So, you're spot-on. Yes.

We probably confused you a little bit. When we said that nobody has been enrolled yet, that's on a new trial we're doing in second line with – it was a T-DM1 and much sooner in the algorithm in second line. So, that's what Tom meant by no enrollment yet. We are currently enrolling in the Phase 2 third line at the new dose of continuous 16 milligram. There will be data coming out soon on the first cohort in Korea. And I can't give you the exact date, but soon there will be the data released on the first 33 patients. But keep in mind the dosing schedule are going to be quite different on the second and that's HER2 specific in the third line breast cancer.

Okay. Great. Thanks, Joe, for the clarification. And then just, is there any details you can give us on the planned basket study for pozi in the other solid tumor indications you're looking at?

I'll start then I'll let Tom because he's working on that. First, I got to tell you, when I speak to the people at MD Anderson who are working on this and have the background, they get out of their chair because they're excited about the non-small cell lung cancer. But, literally they stand up and they get so excited because what they have and they'll be publishing this at some time, Ed – they have a lot of data that shows across many solid tumors that exon 20 insertion mutation are expressed in both EGFR and HER2. Now, it's different levels on all these different tumor types, but it's amazing how many of the solid tumors do show that. And again, they're going to have some data come out on that.

So, we are now working with MD Anderson and other KOLs, designing that basket trial because this is really exciting because we're mega excited about the non-small-cell lung cancer opportunity here but this could open the floodgates to many, many more potential patients. And, Tom, I don't know if you want to add anything.

Yes. We are excited about the early conversations with both KOLs and MD Anderson. I think there is a regulatory blueprint here as analogs with other agents, Keytruda and TRK mutations at all. But I think this one presents a significant opportunity in addition to MD Anderson's data on prevalence. We're also fielding some work internally to really understand the prevalence by tumor type across the board to gain a deeper insight into absolute market size.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And just two relatively quick things, on the RECOVER data, when can – are we going to see that data coming out? Is that going to be before the BLA is published or slightly before, going to be after, when can we expect that?

Yes. I think the way to think about that one is the second half of the year. We're working towards filing the BLA before the end of the year, and RECOVER would likely be ahead of that. So, I think second half of the year is the safe bet.

Okay. Great. Thanks, Tom. And then we had spoken before about your hiring of a Chief Medical Officer. I was just wondering how that search is going?

Yes. It's a top priority. I'll let Tom talk about – tell you about the search, but we're actively looking. And, Tom, you want to give any update?

Yes. I mean, it's a conversation we actually just had a discussion about a few minutes before the call, but we are actively searching and hope to find the right leader soon.

Okay. Thanks. And then just one quick one for Kurt, when you had said on a directional basis R&D will be up for the year, is that on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis?

On a GAAP basis, I mean on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks, Ed.

And I'm showing no further questions at this time. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.