raw transcript


Spectrum Pharmaceuticals
 
SPPI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Please stand by. Good day and welcome to the Spectrum Pharmaceuticals 2004


Financial and Operating Results Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for


opening remarks and introductions, I'd like to turn the conference over to Dr. Rajesh Shrotriya,


Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals. Please go ahead.


Rajesh Shrotriya, Chairman, CEO and President


James [ph], thank you. Good morning, and welcome to our first conference call of the year. I'm


Rajesh Shrotriya, Chairman, CEO and President of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals. With me today are


Shyam Kumaria, our Vice President of Finance; and Dr. Luigi Lenaz, our Chief Scientific Officer.


From now on, we plan to conduct these calls more frequently to communicate with our


shareholders our progress, goals, objectives and achievements.


Before we begin, I would like to state that during this call we will be making forward-looking


statements regarding future events, and the future performance of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals that


involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks are


described in further detail in the company's earnings releases made today, and the reports filed


with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our 10-K was filed with the SEC, and a press


release was released earlier this morning. Those who have not seen the 10-K, or earnings press


release, or 10-K, can access it on our website at www.spectrumpharm.com. For additional


information including SEC filings, please visit the company's website at www.spectrumpharm.com.


The purpose of today's call is three-fold. First, Shyam Kumaria will review Spectrum's financial


results for 2004. Second, I want to briefly comment on the progress our dedicated team has made


in advancing our anti-cancer and other drug candidates. Several acquisitions that we have made


during these past 12 months, and the progress on continuing to build a genetic drug portfolio of


diversified products including alternatives [ph] and injectables.


In addition, we are tooling ourselves for follow-on biologicals. Thirdly, we have laid a solid


foundation on which a successful company can be built. We added to our theme several highly


qualified people with a relevant industry experience. With its capital, we regained listing on national


market of NASDAQ. The financial stability that we achieved in this past year provided us the


means to advance our projects at a brisk pace. We also entered into various strategic partnerships


in the past 12 months or so that I would like to talk about. We strongly believe that the strategic


alliances with its 12 partners that have more competencies, it strengthens out team. Such alliances


are likely to shorten the time to our success. At this point, I would to turn the call over to Shyam


Kumaria, Spectrum's Vice President of Finance, to discuss financial results for 2004. Shyam?


Shyam Kumaria, Vice President of Finance


Thank you Dr. Shrotriya, and good morning to everyone on this call. Over the past year and a half,


I have participated with Dr. Shrotriya and the entire Spectrum team in accomplishing the goals that


were laid out last year. Our vision continues to be for Spectrum to become a commercial stage


company, with a robust and growing portfolio of proprietary products, primarily cancer focused, and


also a portfolio of generic products generating meaningful revenue in the near term. In preparing


the annual report on Form 10-K, for filing with the SEC, we have attempting to communicate to you,


the shareholders, in as much simplicity as is possible, our progress of financial performance and


future financial prospects. I'm going to last year. As highlighted in our earnings press release this


morning, our net loss was $12.3 million, for last year, and that was $1.9 million higher than the


2003 loss of $10.4 million. The principle reason for the increase in net loss were, one, an increase
raw transcript


Spectrum Pharmaceuticals
 
SPPI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


of $3.3 million in research and development expenses, and that includes approximately $1.2 million


in cash that was paid for acquisition of SPI-153. The second item was a decrease of $1 million in


licensing revenues, more on that in a second.


Offsetting these increases was a cost of $2.5 million that was recorded in 2003, which did not


repeat in 2004. The 2004 revenue primarily represents $185,000 of product sales, recorded from


the first shipment of Ciprofloxacin tablets in the fourth quarter of 2004. And also, $73,000 of


commissions that we received from GPC Biotech are in connection with Satraplatin they used in


clinical trials. In 2003, we had received $1 million in licensing revenue from GPC in regards to a


milestone that was accomplished in 2003. No milestone event occurred in 2004. Research and


development expenses increased from $3.7 million in '03, to $7 million in '04, reflecting the


increasing scope of our activities. The principle components of the increase were a cash payment


of $1.2 million, for the up-front licensing fee, for SPI-153, and an increase of $1.6 million in drug


product expenses as a result of the investigation and development of additional new products, and


increased clinical trial activity for EOquin and Elsamitrucin. We expect research and development


expenses to continue to increase in 2005 and beyond as we develop and expand our product


portfolio. General and administrative expenses held pretty steady. They increased by less than


$100,000 from $5 million to $5.1 million in 2004. We increased – sorry. We experienced increases


in legal and professional fees incurred in complying with securities laws and to the new NASDAQ,


SEC, and Sarbanes-Oxley rules and regulations. And also in advancement of our product


portfolios. We also had increases in personnel costs due to the hiring of conditional personnel in


the past 12 months to enable the implementation of our planned growth.


Stock-based charges, which are non-cash charges, decreased approximately $1.7 million from $2.6


in '03 to $0.9 million, $900,000 in 2004. Of the 2004 charge, $634,000 arose from the recording of


the fair value of restricted common stock issued in connect with the end licensing of SPI-153. The


'03 charge arose due to timing delays in award and stock options to employees as a result of our


having to comply with state securities laws during a period where our stock price rose rapidly. We


did not accrue such a charge in 2004.


During 2004, we secured new financing, aggregating approximately $25 million. At the end of the


year, we had a cash and marketable securities balance of approximately $39 million. On that note,


I would like to turn the mic back to Dr. Shrotriya. Raj?


Rajesh Shrotriya, CEO


Thank you, Shyam. Ask can be seen from Shyam's presentation, we are continuing to manage our


cash well. I'm excited to say that our team efforts in building a robust pipeline of propriety products


along with genetics continues to bear fruit. As of today we have 6 proprietary drug candidates on


the development: Satraplatin, EOquin, Elsamitrucin, SPI-153, RenaZorb, and SPI-1620 [ph]. Non-


abbreviated new drug applications of ANDAs that have been filed with the FDA. One ADNA,


Ciprofloxacin tablets was approved by the FDA, and 8 ANDAs are currently pending FDA approval,


including one ANDA with a para-full [ph] certification whether Spectrum is first to file assuming 2/10


sectionating [ph] injection.


Let me first talk about our lead drug Satraplatin that is under development by our partner GPC


Biotech. Satraplatin is an orally administered, platinum-based, chemotherapeutic agent. It is


currently in Phase III trial for hormone reflective prostate cancer. In addition, Satraplatin has shown


anti-tumor activity like other platinum compounds in ovarian and lung cancers. The parts of


conducting currently in contrast of being born entirely by a co-development partner GPC Biotech


AG, the studies are going as planned, and patient accrual is expected to be completed by the end


of this year. In fact, I'm extremely pleased to say at the base the enrollment has accrued in this


study. We expect that initiation of a rolling NDA will begin in the second half of this year. The NDA


filing is planned to be completed by the end of next year, and interim analysis will be carried out by