raw transcript


Spectrum Pharmaceuticals
 
SPPI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone. Welcome to today's Spectrum Pharmaceuticals First Quarter 2005


Financial Operating Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] At this time for opening


remarks, I will turn the call over to Laurie Little, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.


Laurie Little, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Keith. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss


Spectrum's First Quarter 2005 Financial Operating Results. Participating in today's call are Dr.


Rajesh Shrotriya, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals,


Shyam Kumaria, Vice President of Finance, and Dr. Luigi Lenaz, our Chief Scientific Officer.


Before we begin, I would like to state that during this call we will be making forward-looking


statements regarding future events and the future performance of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals that


involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks are


described in further detail in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. These forward-looking statements represent the company's judgement as of the date


of this conference call and the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-


looking statements. However, we may choose to update them and if we do so, we will disseminate


the updates to the investment public. In addition, our 10-Q was filed today with the SEC and our


press release was released this morning. For the 10-Q earnings press release of the


corresponding 8-K and for additional information including SEC filings, please visit our website


www.spectrumpharm.com. Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Dr. Rajesh Shrotriya. Rajesh?


Rajesh Shrotriya, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President


Thank you, Laurie. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. At today's conference call


we would like to cover 3 aspects. First, the financials for the first quarter followed by an update on


the progress that we have made thus far. Lastly, what we expect to see in the near future. In other


words, what are the drivers for the next 6, 12, and 18 months? Our achievements for the first


quarter of 2005 are simply impressive. We continue to perform and accomplish in most aspects of


our business including acquisitions. We made 2 acquisitions in this quarter, moving all of our


projects forward including 1 drug in safety clinical trials, full studies in Phase II, and 3 pre-clinical


drugs are all making progress, revised 3 ANDAs and signed a new marketing alliance by keeping a


close eye on our financial resources.


Our achievements announced during this quarter prove that we are following through on our


objectives and delivering constantly on our company's strengths that are reflective of a much larger


company. We believe these accomplishments are currently not reflected in our market cap, which


is under $100 million. We believe that delivering on our promises and continuing to achieve our


publically stated goals and objectives will ultimately add shareholder value. Our focus on building a


strong and sustainable business that will bring value to our shareholders over the long term.


Before I talk about our development plans of 2005, I would like to turn the call over to Shyam to


discuss financial results for the first quarter. Shyam?


Shyam Kumaria, Vice President of Finance


Thank you, Dr. Shrotriya. And, good afternoon to everyone on this call. As highlighted in our


earnings release this morning, a net loss of $5.3 million for the first quarter was $3.1 million higher
raw transcript


Spectrum Pharmaceuticals
 
SPPI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


than the first quarter of last year. The loss back then was $2.2 million. The main reason for this


increase in net loss, and increase in $2.8 million in R&D expenses and an increase of


approximately $586,000 in stock-based charges primarily related to the acquisition of Renazorb.


We did not have any revenue in the first quarter of 2005, much like 2004. R&D expenses


increased from $900,000 in the 3 months ended March 2004 to $3.7 million in the 3 months ended


March 31, '05. This is due to the increase in the number of products under development, the


expansion of the scope of our clinical trials activity, and an increase in R&D personnel costs


associated with this increased activity.


General and administrative expenses decreased approximately $200,000 from $1.3 million last


year to $1.1 million in the first quarter of this year, primarily due to a reduction in legal costs.


Trump-based charges, which are non-cash charges increased approximately $586,000 from


$70,000 in the first quarter in 2004 to $658,000 in the first quarter of 2005. This increase resulted


primarily from recording the estimated fair value of the 100,000 shares of common stock we issued


to our Tare [ph] Technologies in connection with the end licensing of Renazorb. At the end of the


quarter, cash and marketable securities totaled approximately $38 million. This is down slightly


from the approximately $39 million we had on hand at the end of 2004. On that note, I would like to


turn the call back to Dr. Shrotriya.


Rajesh Shrotriya, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President


Thank you, Shyam. As we have seen degradation [ph], we continue to manage our cash well. We


closed our last year with $39 million in the bank and we closed our Q1 with over $38 million in the


bank. While the most of you have been following our progress theses past few months, I would like


to highlight our accomplishments so far this year. We acquired 2 new products. We believe that in


our business, products are what matters. Since we do not know from where this success will come


price which drugs will be successful, our strategy is to build a broad diversified portfolio of drugs by


acquisition. People at Spectrum not only has the necessary background as well as experience,


and track record in making successful acquisitions, it has a strong networking both in industry and


academia and has the ability to see the diamond in the rough, so to say. In this quarter, we


acquired 1 right to 2 novel drugs, dating SPI-1620 and Relaxor.


SPI-1620 is an adjunct to chemotherapy. It takes a unique blood supply to the tumor. There are


anatomical differences in the blood vessels that supply blood to the tumor than those that supply


blood to the normal tissues. SPI-1620 is an embotalant data agonist [ph] with assume linked


receptors on endometrial cells to selectively and transiently dilate tumor blood vessels and thereby,


increasing the blood flow and delivering increased quantities of anti-cancer drugs to cancer tissue.


This increase in delivery of anti-cancer drugs to the tumor correlates with the increased efficacy of


anti-cancer drugs like baclitaxel [ph]. We plan to complete the pre-clinical evaluation necessary to


file an IND within the next 13 to 15 months and conduct clinical trials to evaluate SPI-1620 for


safety and efficacy as an adjunct to chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer.


The second drug we acquired in the last quarter is Renazorb, which is indicated for patients with


kidney disease. Renazorb is a second-generation lentinan-based phosphate-binding drug. We are


currently developing a formulation and completing some necessary studies that are needed for


FDA to allow us the clinical trials, which we plan to complete. The oldest study work related to filing


an IND within the next 13 to 15 months. Renazorb is insended to fill an unmedical need for patients


with kidney disease that leads to toxic, high toxic levels in their blood. We initiated new clinical


trials for SPI-153. They are 2 separate studies, multi-center studies in Europe, one in Holland to


fight prostate cancer and the other is for hypertrophy. We also plan to file a U.S. IND and initiate


clinical studies in the U.S.A. as soon as it's possible. The advanced clinical trials in progress


starting with our most advanced drug, Satraplatin, which is indicated for coleman [ph] reflected


prostate cancer and the development is being done by our department GPC Biotech.