Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shiv S. Kapoor — Vice President, Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Rajesh C. Shrotriya, MD — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Kurt A. Gustafson — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Principal Accounting Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Joseph G. Turgeon — President & Chief Operating Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Thomas J. Riga — Chief Commercial Officer & Senior Vice President, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Zane Yang, MD — Senior Vice President, Clinical Development, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Adnan Shaukat Butt — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities
Laura Engel — Analyst, Stonegate Capital Partners
Edward White — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
Matthew J. Andrews — Analyst, Jefferies LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Spectrum Pharmaceuticals' Q3 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

And now I'd like to introduce your host for today's conference, Shiv Kapoor, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations. You may begin.

Thanks. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us for Spectrum's third quarter 2017 financials result conference call. I hope you've all had a chance to review the press release we've issued earlier today. If not, it's available on our website at www.sppirx.com.

I would like to remind everyone that during this call, we will be making forward-looking statements regarding future events of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals including statements about the product sales, profits and losses, the safety, efficacy, development, time line and clinical results of our drug products and drug candidates that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

These risks are described in further detail in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements represent the company's judgment as of the date of this conference call, November 2, 2017, and the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. However, we may choose to update them, and if we do so, we will disseminate the updates to the investing public. For copies of today's press release, historical press releases, 10-Ks, 10-Qs, 8-Ks and other SEC filings and other important information, please visit our website.

Dr. Raj Shrotriya, our CEO, will start the call today and provide you with the highlights of the third quarter and overall strategy. I'd now like to hand the call to Dr. Shrotriya.

Thank you, Shiv. And thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. We have been focused on developing on late-stage pipeline and I'm proud of our progress. I would like to start by highlighting our key priorities for the year. First, let me say a few words about poziotinib. A significant event in the third quarter as preliminary data from Phase 2 study at MD Anderson Cancer Center was presented two weeks ago at the World Conference on Lung Cancer in Japan by Dr. John Heymach of the MD Anderson group.

Poziotinib is being developed for patients who have non-small-cell lung cancer with a genetic mutation involving exon 20 insertion. These patients are generally younger, non-smokers, females, and have a progression-free survival of about two months. Current treatments for these patients are unsatisfactory. Promising preliminary data was presented in Japan two weeks ago with overall response rates seen in 73% of patients.

Following guidance from the FDA, we have initiated a Phase 2 study. This study is currently enrolling patients. Many of the premier cancer institutions in the country are expected to participate in this study. We are committed to working with the FDA to find the fastest regulatory pathway for the approval of poziotinib.

Our second drug, ROLONTIS, our novel GCSF, we plan to announce top line data in first quarter 2018 from over 400 patients that were study in the United States in a study called ADVANCE trial. Enrollment is also well underway in a second trial, which is an international study with sites mainly in U.S., Europe and Canada is called RECOVER study, which is similar to the ADVANCE study but will enroll approximately 218 patients. We remain on track to file a BLA, or Biologics License Application, in the fourth quarter of next year.

Lastly, a novel tumor-activating cancer drug QAPZOLA, our registration to study is now enrolling patients. This study has been designed, taking into account learnings from previous studies and is being conducted under a special protocol assessment from the FDA.

In summary, I believe we are in a very exciting inflection point at Spectrum. Poziotinib has shown encouraging data in patients with exon 20 insertion mutation, this is a type of a genetic disorder in patients with non-small cell lung cancer who have very limited options. We have initiated multicenter Phase 2 trial, which will involve top or many leading cancer centers throughout the country.

I'm extremely proud to be working on a drug which can have an impact that continues the lives of patients who may have had only a few months to live. In my 40 years in medicine, those are very few times that you come across a drug that can really impact patients' lives in such a meaningful way, and I'm very proud and very happy that we have potentially a drug like that.

Joe Turgeon will soon provide you more details about our operations later in the call, but before that let me hand over the call to our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Kurt Gustafson, to talk about our financials. Kurt?

Thank you, Raj. And good afternoon to everyone on the call today. I'm going to cover a few important financial highlights from the quarter and let's start with revenue. Total revenues for the third quarter were $36.4 million and of this, product sales were $31.2 million. In addition to product sales, we recorded a one-time $5 million milestone in license fee revenue based on the approval of FOLOTYN in Japan and the first commercial sale.

Moving on to expenses, SG&A expenses were $18.9 million this quarter. While this may look like an increase from the previous quarter, it is actually the result of the change in the line items, in which we report this expense. As I pointed out in last quarter's call, our collaboration with Eagle Pharmaceuticals ended on June 30.

As a result, we are no longer reporting a portion of our sales and marketing expenses as cost and services revenue for the promotion of Eagle products, but rather all sales and marketing expenses now back to being reported in the SG&A line. As compared to the second quarter, SG&A expenses actually decline due to lower staff related cost.

R&D expenses were $13.9 million for the quarter. During the third quarter, we raised $114 million through the sale of 12.6 million shares utilizing our at-the-market security offering program. We ended the quarter with $248 million in cash and cash equivalents versus $139 million at June 30.

Subsequent to the end of the quarter, we issued 1 million shares for net proceeds of approximately $14 million off of our ATM. Also subsequent to the end of the quarter, we entered into agreements with a few of our convertible bondholders and exchanged approximately $69.5 million in aggregate principal of bonds for approximately 5.4 million newly issued shares of stock plus $26.7 million in cash. Following these and other exchanges, we have reduced our debt from $120 million down to approximately $40.5 million.

Financially, the company is well equipped to find our three advanced stage programs. And to hear more about these, let me turn the call over to Joe.

Thank you, Kurt. Thank you, Dr. Raj, and thank you, Shiv, and thank you to everybody on the call. These are really exciting times at Spectrum. First, let me talk about poziotinib, our oral irreversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which has shown potential on lung cancer patients with exon 20 insertion mutations and also in breast cancer patients.

As Dr. Raj mentioned, just two weeks ago we announced encouraging preliminary data from a current ongoing trial at MD Anderson Cancer Center studying poziotinib in non-small cell lung cancer patients with exon 20 insertion mutations in EGFR and HER2. Patients with such tumors are generally non-smokers, younger and have very few options for treatment. The prognosis for these patients is poor with a medium progression-free survival of about two months and current therapies are unsatisfactory. There is a significant unmet need for this population.

Poziotinib has shown evidence of significant antitumor activity in non-small cell lung cancer and patients with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations. Dr. John Heymach reported that all 11 patients who received the daily poziotinib showed tumor shrinkage. The objective response rate using RECIST criteria was 73%. It was also evidenced at central nervous system activity in a patient with central nervous system metastases and another with leptomeningeal disease. This is especially exciting news because these patients are generally resistant to available treatments.

We just announced Monday that we have initiated and are currently enrolling patients in our own multicenter Phase 2 trial of poziotinib. This trial has been designed with input from leading KOLs as well as the FDA. The goal of the Phase 2 trial is to evaluate both the efficacy and safety of poziotinib in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer that is locally advanced or metastatic and have an exon 20 insertion mutation in either EGFR or HER2.

The trial is to enroll up to 87 patients with EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations and up to 87 patients with HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations. In addition to lung cancer, poziotinib is also being studied as a single agent in a Phase 2 trial in the third-line setting with breast cancer patients who have failed other HER2 directed therapies, and we've seen the encouraging responses. We continue to enroll out breast cancer trial and we'll keep you updated on the progress.

Data from Hanmi's Phase 2 study in breast cancer was reported in September at ESMO. With patients that were heavily pretreated, including four prior anti-cancer therapies and a medium of two prior HER2-directed therapies, the disease control rate was 74.7% and confirmed ORR was 21.1%. This trial used a 12 milligram of poziotinib versus 16 milligrams in our ongoing study and also had two weeks on and one week off dosing compared to our continuous dosing. So while the exposure of drug was much slower than the exposure in our ongoing breast cancer trial, we are encouraged by these data.

A Grade 3 diarrhea of 14% in the study also compares favorably with the comparable treatments at this stage of development. We have worldwide rights to poziotinib except for South Korea and China. Our team is embarking upon an overall strategy for global clinical development and regulatory filings for poziotinib. We are in early discussions with key opinion leaders in Europe and Japan to discuss regulatory pathways to maximize the potential of poziotinib.

Next, ROLONTIS, a long-acting granulocyte colony-stimulating factor or GCSF. ROLONTIS is a novel molecule that has been designed using a proprietary platform-based technology. In Phase 2 studies, ROLONTIS has shown encouraging safety and efficacy. We are building a strong regulatory package for this program. We have designed a comprehensive clinical program with two Phase 3 trials to evaluate ROLONTIS.

These registration trials are multicenter, randomized, and active-control studies. Enrolled patients receive chemotherapy every 21 days. ROLONTIS is administered subcutaneously as a fixed dose once per cycle. The primary study endpoint is a duration of severe neutropenia assessed through absolute neutrophil counts in cycle one of chemotherapy based on central lab assessments over the 21-day cycle. Secondary endpoints include the incidents of neutropenia complications, incidents of febrile neutropenia, relative dose intensity and safety.

The ADVANCE trial was completely enrolled ahead of schedule. We have randomized 406 patients in this trial and expect to have top line results in the first quarter of 2018. We are running a second trial for this program called the RECOVER study which is similar to the ADVANCE trial in design.

RECOVER study is an international study that will enroll around 218 patients from Europe, the U.S. and other selected countries. This study is enrolling well and should yield results next year in time for us to file a BLA for ROLONTIS in the fourth quarter of 2018. With ROLONTIS, we'll have the opportunity to compete in a multibillion dollar market with a novel agent. As a reminder, ROLONTIS is not a biosimilar, it's a novel agent. If successful, this drug could change the growth trajectory of our company.

Now let's move on to QAPZOLA, our tumor-activated drug for bladder cancer. We initiated the Phase 3 trial in August and are currently enrolling patients. We have used learnings from our previous research and recommendations from the FDA in designing our new Phase 3 trial. This trial is being conducted under an SPA from the FDA.

The Phase 3 study is expected to enroll 425 evaluable patients using a single dose of 8-milligrams. It has a 2:1 randomization in favor of QAPZOLA and is evaluating time-to-recurrence as the primary endpoint. This is being studied in low and intermediate risk patients, and based on the SPA, we're required to complete only this one trial for an NDA submission.

At the upcoming ASH meeting, we will present more than a dozen abstracts across our current portfolio. Two of these are oral presentations involving FOLOTYN including a Phase 1 dose escalation study of FOLOTYN in combination with CHOP in frontline patients with newly diagnosed PTCL, and second, a report from the comprehensive measures for PTCL.

Thus far, 2017 has been a highly productive year at Spectrum. We have progressed our advanced stage pipeline and have executed on our goals. We look forward to updating you on the progress as we work towards bringing more treatments options to cancer patients. I really appreciate your interest in Spectrum and now I'm going to turn the call back over to Dr. Raj.

Thank you, Joe. These are exciting times for Specturm. With that, let's open the call for questions. Operator, please. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Adnan Butt of Guggenheim Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, thanks. Hey everyone. Clearly impressive data for poziotinib. At this point, would you be able to tell us when the next update from the MD Anderson study could take place?

Well, Adnan, as you know the current study at MD Anderson is investigator sponsored study. Although we are intimately involved in ordering and monitoring these patients, as where the update is concerned, I think it will be sometime in early – I expect it's sometime to be early in next year as we have been discussing about filing an abstract, submitting an abstract with some paperwork for the ASCO presentation which happens in February. So I would say something like in February, I'm expecting some update, but again, I don't control that. That has to come from MD Anderson. But my discussions reveal that the plan is to find an abstract for ASCO in February next year.

That's good to hear, Dr. Raj. I think on the prior conference call, Dr. Heymach mentioned that there would be an update from the HER2 code as well, and do you expect it at the same update or could that be a separate update?

I am not sure at this time, Adnan. I'll have to go back to Dr. Heymach and find out about it.

Okay. Let me just ask a question on your study. And it's good to see you start the Phase 2. Could you tell us if there are any differences between the protocols that you've developed versus the MD Anderson protocol?

Well, I think those are very fine differences, Adnan. After this call, you and I can get over this. I can have our Chief Medical Officer; [indiscernible] (18:12), our Chief Project Officer; and Dr. Zane Yang, our Senior VP Medical to go over the differences with you, but they are subtle, they're minor. They are all targeting advanced metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer with exon 20 insertion mutations. There are some fine points that we can talk about the – for example, we have built a centralized – leading up these scans, PET scans, CT scans. Because our study is multicenter, we expect 20 to 50 sites participate in the trial.

We want to make sure that all the cancer risk centrally, that is something that we are insisting. And similarly, we are collecting plasma from all these samples, all these patients, and trying to collect tissue from all these. Some of the things that are unique to a multicenter trial that are certainly different from MD Anderson cancer trial, but the fundamental are basically going to be the same. Patients remain the same, diagnostic criteria using NGS remains the same, and also these scans remain the same.

So last one from me, Dr. Raj, in terms of managing patients either via prophylaxis or a primary prophylaxis, are there any plans to do them to make them stay on the higher dose longer?

Yes, you are right. In oncology, we try to use maximum tolerated dose of MTD. The goal is to give the highest dose possible. So as you know that we started our breast cancer study with 24 milligrams at [indiscernible] (19:46) and here we found that 16 milligrams was the best dose in our assessment. So everybody starts with 16 milligrams and the goal is keep everybody at 16 milligrams.

But the reality is that some patients don't tolerate the highest dose, and therefore we have to gradually reduce the dose. Dose reduction is only subject to what kind of side effects they have, not everybody has the same severity of reaction. But certainly we have seen rash, diarrhea, paronychia, mucositis, it all depends how well the patients are tolerating. But clearly, the study is designed to keep the patients on as high a dose as possible or as long as possible.

Okay, great. I'll get back in line. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Laura Engel with Stonegate Capital Partners. Your line is open.

Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I wonder if you had any update from Hanmi on the potential readout, whether you thought we might hear something before year end or is it looking like it would be 2018 for that next readout.

So from Hanmi, any readout will be in 2018. I'm not aware of any readout in this year.

Okay. And then on the QAPZOLA, can you give us any idea of the number of patients or the number of active sites thus far and then if you've heard anything as far as how dosage that's being used in this trial design, if that's going still well with this second design?

Yes, so QAPZOLA trial, we have a lot of experience in this area because we have done previous two trials which involve almost 90 centers that participated in enrolling patients. We have gone back to several of those sites, at least 40, 50 sites have been told – are active right now. Patients are being actively recruited both in U.S. and in Canada, and a number of patients that we need, evaluable patients, 425.

There are three differences in this trail as compared to the previous trial, three major differences, one of them is that they are using double the dose of the previous study. It's 8 milligrams rather than 4 milligrams. We also have time to recurrence as the end point, and also features a randomized 2:1. In fact, for every two patients that gets QAPZOLA, only then be one patient at placebo and this trial design was blessed by the FDA. There was one major change because in the first trial, patients could get QAPZOLA right soon after surgery.

And we found that some of the patients who might have bleeding, and the bleeding deactivates or inactivates this drug. In the current protocol, we are allowing 30 minutes to pass before we consider giving QAPZOLA. And in fact, if there is bleeding then we wait even longer. We say one hour, plus or minus 30 minutes. So some patients could wait for 1.5 hour if need be.

So these are the major three or four differences between the first trials. But clearly, we are very aggressively pursuing these trials, and people and the – they are – investigators are very excited about the potential that this drug could be in the hands of patients.

Okay.

Hey Laura. This is Joe. I'll just add to also that at San Antonio Breast, Hanmi we will have a poster on the ESMO data that I referenced...

Okay.

...in the transcript, so there will be a poster at San Antonio Breast.

Okay, great. And then just one more related to current sales, so just comparing ups and downs quarter-to-quarter, it reflected a little bit of the continuing decrease in FUSILEV, a strong increase for EVOMELA. I wondered if you could just comment looking forward the largest actual change was in MARQIBO – I hope I'm saying that right – plus $2 million. If you could comment on that and then just as far as EVOMELA still gaining traction going forward, how you feel about that and its market share at this time.

So I have Tom Riga, our Chief Commercial Officer and Head of Business Development, to answer this question.

Hey, Laura. I hope you're well. Let me start with MARQIBO. As a reminder, this is indicated in a very limited population. There are about 1,600 patients in adult Philadelphia negative ALL. In the third quarter, we actually saw two competitive entrants come into this space with different mechanism of actions that clearly had an impact on our business.

Now we're going to monitor that going forward and keep you posted as we go, but your observation is correct in those new products are likely the cause. When you look at it in an absolute patient basis, while you see the million dollar decrease, you're looking at less than 15 patients as we evaluate that but in a very small market that presents itself as significant, so we'll keep an eye on that.

Regarding EVOMELA, we're thrilled with the performance. I think this is the highest quarter we've seen with the brand. We are the market leader. I think the market has spoken on the differentiation of the product. But that said, there are four generic competitors that we're constantly competing with and price pressures are a reality of the game. We believe we're differentiated. We've been holding strong, but our team is working tirelessly to continue to earn new business as well as maintain a differentiated price schedule, but that's something we have to monitor on a very regular basis.

Right. Okay, great. Well, thanks for taking my questions and I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Ed White with H.C. Wainwright. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So I just wanted – I seldom ask about the commercial products, but I do want to come back to MARQIBO. But now on sales, if you can give any update on the protocol you submitted for the SPA for CHOP versus the CHMP?

Dr. Zane, could you give us some...?

Hi, this Zane. So the [indiscernible] (26:25) study is designed for the MARQIBO in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patient population. And we have a discussion with the FDA regarding for the study denied and speaking for the SPA in order for the clear path for the registration and the discussion [indiscernible] (26:49) under discussion with the agencies.

Okay. So there's no real update yet on that one?

Not really, Ed, but that will be a Phase 3 registrational trail if and when we get it. We're just trying to get it under an SPA.

Okay, great. Thank you. And then Joe, a question for you, and maybe if you can talk about the changes that you're expecting in the GCSF market in the U.S. either through the biosimilars or the healthcare reform. What has changed since you started strategically planning the ROLONTIS launch and how you're positioning in the market? We've talked about that before, but has anything changed that either makes you think that there's less of an opportunity or more of an opportunity now for ROLONTIS?

Yeah. I think first of all, Ed, what hasn't changed – it's exciting because what hasn't changed is we're a novel agent. The way reimbursement works is still true today, puts us in a good position to compete because we will be the novel agent. But I guess the only real change in the time we've been talking and watching it is several biosimilars that we thought would be in the market already are not yet on the market.

You've also seen that in Europe with some of the new ones. So right now I don't know who will get to this market first as a long-acting biosimilar, but at this point there are none on the market. So that's different than I thought. I thought there'd be at least one if not two on the market already. Tom, you want to add?

Yeah. The only thing I would add is as early as last night there was some news on TV [indiscernible] (28:37) in the United States. We as a company believe that cancer care does help with the community oncologist, and I think the reform to the PHS space really helps eliminate some of the issues that have plagued patients in that segment and puts the control of the care back into the community oncologist's hands, which I think is advantageous for the GCSF space. As we've talked in the past, today greater than 70% of all GCSFs are treated by the community, and that number is only looking to grow as we see the PHS reform come into vision.

Okay, great. Thanks, Tom. So maybe just one last ROLONTIS question, you expect the BLA submission in the fourth quarter of 2018. Is it safe to assume the European submission early 2019?

Yes. That's what we are planning, yes.

Okay. And then just one pozi question in breast cancer. So Joe had just said that you're running the single agent second Phase 2 trial and third line, can you give us an idea of how many patients are enrolled or when we could see data from that study?

Dr. Zane?

So these this study has been [ph] contact there (30:17) for more than a year, and initially this study design is for a patient with a metastatic [indiscernible] (30:27) and HER2 positive for breast cancer with a single agent of pozi, 24 milligrams once a day, two weeks on, one week off regimen recommended by our partner from Hanmi Pharmaceuticals.

But our experience, we feel there is no statistical rationale for having the, call it, holiday in this population, but also we do believe there is room to increase that patient tolerability and without compromising the patient efficacy by justify the dose from 24 milligram to 16 milligram. Because of this observation, we open this discussion with the FDA and then we get the agencies' agreement we move to amendment, now we have two cohort currently in the study.

The first cohort we have 32 patient treated with the 24 milligram once daily for two weeks on, one week off. That cohort is complete and the data is under analyze and hopefully we maybe share this information in the major scientific conference in the future.

And more importantly, the second cohort will open in the U.S. and is the 16 milligram once daily continuous. And we do – so we still have a limited number of patient, so it's early yet to say the observation of the data, but I just want to let you know the second cohort is open and all this information is available and the clinical trial back up.

And I'll just remind you, overall, they ended 70 patients. Just to remind you.

Great. Thanks, Joe. And thank you very much. That answered all my questions.

Thanks, Ed.

Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Andrews with Jefferies. Your line is open.

Hey, good afternoon. A question on poziotinib, at what point do you go to the agency to advance the discussion on potential for breakthrough designation? Is there a minimum amount of safety and efficacy data that you need to have to request a such meeting?

So Matt, that's a good question. In fact, the data that we saw in Yokohama, it was really ahead of its time. In other words, when we started this trial Dr. Heymach thought that it will take two to three years to complete this trial in 30 patients, and now actually we already have data that is present – and we didn't expect this data to be available until December of this year.

So they are quite heartened to see that the data is already available and as we ,speak we are preparing our submission to the FDA requesting a meeting to discuss a regulatory strategy, whether it involves breakthrough designation or it involves explicit approval or it involves just – so we are planning to have a meeting with the FDA as soon as possible.

We are just now preparing a document and we will send it very quickly to the FDA. There's a lot of excitement in the lung cancer community, a lot of excitement in the patients, and I can tell you that our investigators are inundated with the number of patients that are calling in about the use of our poziotinib for them. So we are very excited and we hope to meet with the FDA as soon as the FDA would allow us to.

So on the call few weeks ago, Dr. Heymach mentioned enrolling the cohort of frontline patients. What is the strategy for your multicenter study? Do you plan out of the 174 patients to have a proportion that are actually first line, or what are the thoughts around that? Does the MD Anderson data pace how you enroll for first line, anything you can add on that?

So Matt, the current protocol that was heavily discussed with the FDA and with key opinion leaders requires – the FDA requires that the patient must have failed one treatment. Whether it's chemotherapy or targeted therapy, they must have failed one therapy. However, these discussions with KOLs, the thinking is the following. That because an exon 20 insertion mutation, the standard chemotherapy or targeted therapy test is not effective. Why waste time with these patients, giving them therapies that are not effective? And therefore there is a pitch that we should treat some patients first line with poziotinib. That is the discussion that we plan to have with FDA and we will let you know when the decision is made.

Okay. Thank you. And just lastly, following up on Adnan's question, as it relates to minimizing rash and other toxicities, it sounds like you're committed to starting with 16 milligrams, is that right or would you consider starting at a lower dose, 12 milligrams?

So like I told you, I know oncology right, left and center, and in oncology, you give the best dose that is the best chance of success. Remember, our first patient that we started in November of last year under compassionate ground was started with 16 milligrams daily dose. This patient had metastatic lesions and pain and difficulty breathing and cough, and within first week she – our clinical [indiscernible] (36:42) was seen within first week and [indiscernible] (36:46) responses seen in four weeks. That's 16 milligrams daily.

Clearly, I as a physician would not want – I would want every patient to benefit from this quick and early effect we saw in first patient. So we have no plans to start at this time with the lower dose of 16 milligrams. Once patients start at 16 milligrams, and then if they develop intolerance then we can certainly reduce the dose. That's the standard practice in oncology, and as we plan to continue at this time. 16 milligrams dose has been found to be safer and effective dose in this patient population so far with the limited experience that we have.

But mind you, let me just give you an idea that poziotinib has already been given to over 300 patients while the lung cancer patients are limited. The total exposure to breast cancer patient and other patients is over 300, so we feel pretty comfortable giving 16 milligram as a starting dose.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. And we have a follow-up question from Adnan Butt with Guggenheim Securities. Your line is open.

Hey, thanks for the follow-up. Just a quick one here. Could you tell us how commonplace screening is for these mutations in lung cancer and other cancers. And then maybe have you had a chance to do some work on how commonplace these mutations are, at least in the major markets?

So I've seen numbers all over the place. This is – you start looking at the non-small-cell lung cancer indication, about 200,000 patients a year and that goes to the United States. And the number of patients that could have exon 20 insertion mutations have seen numbers anywhere from 4,000 to 8,000 patients, but that is just in the U.S. But when you start going to Europe and Japan, the number of patients expand to as much as 15,000 to 20,000 patients. So that number is – I can't tell you how accurate this number is, but certainly that is a range that seems believable to me.

And I would tell you, when we were in Yokohama, we did meet experts from Japan and they were all very, very interested. We had the Chairman of the department of lung cancer and thoracic cancer in Tokyo, and in several other places in Japan, Osaka and Nagoya. And we certainly plan to – Japan has the highest incidence of exon 20 insertion mutations. There's a lot of interest in these people and we certainly plan to have some program going forward in Japan.

Okay. And then would you know how – is it standards cleaning for these mutations?

It is becoming – you should realize that until 2004, nobody knew about these mutations. This is all relatively new, thanks to Human Genome Project, and now everyday increasingly, people are being tested routinely with the genetic mutations because lung cancer is number one killer for cancer death in both men and women. And the reason for that is we were treating blindly these cancers, give them chemotherapy, give them platinum therapy, not knowing that there's certain genetic mutation that prevents for these chemotherapies to act.

So now therefore more and more physicians, even in community practice, they're resolving to these what you call liquid biopsies or blood, they take plasma and they run it through what's called next-generation sequencing, on foundation test or Oncomine test, so they are able to do quickly the genetic screening of these patients. And therefore, our target therapies are becoming more common. Tests are becoming more common. But there still is intensity. I think as it grows, number of patients diagnosed will be far greater than what it is today.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. I would now like to turn the call back over to Dr. Rajesh Shrotriya for any further remarks.

I would like to thank all the participants today in this conference. I want to thank you for your interest in Spectrum, and we look forward to updating you in the near future on our continuing progress. Stay tuned. I believe the best is yet to come. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. That does concludes the program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.