raw transcript


Spectrum Pharmaceuticals,


Inc.
 
SPPI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to today's Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Fifth Quarter


2005 Financial and Operating Result Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded at this time for


opening remarks and introductions I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Laurie Little, Senior


Director of Investor Relation. Please go ahead ma'am.


Laurie Little, Senior Director of Investor Relation


Thanks Cindy, good morning everyone happy Friday. Thank you for joining us today to discuss


Spectrum's third quarter 2005 financial and operating results participating on today call are Dr.


Rajesh Shrotriya, Chairman, CEO and President of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals. Shyam Kumaria,


Vice President of Finance and Dr. Luigi Lenaz our Chief Scientific Officer.


Before we begin I would like to state that during this call we will be making forward-looking


statements regarding future events and the future performance Spectrum Pharmaceuticals that


involve risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. These risks are


described in further detail in the Company's report filed at Securities and Exchange Commission.


These forward-looking statements represents the company's judgment as date of this conference


call and the Company disclaims any intends or obligations to update these forward-looking


statements however we may to update and even if we do so we will disseminate the update to the


investing company in public our 10-Q was filed today with the SEC and we issued our earnings


press release earlier this morning for the 10-Q earnings press release or the course filed in the 8-K


and for additional information including all of our SEC filings please visit our website at


www.spectrumpharm.com.


Now that I have completed I would like to turn the call over to Dr. Rajesh Shrotriya. Raj.


Rajesh C. Shrotriya, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Laurie, good morning ladies and gentlemen, thank you for joining our call today. I would


like to begin by sharing with you the underline principals that represents different foundation of the


Spectrum’s business strategy and the progress we are making in this regard we believe that there


are at least three official ingredients for building a successful and sustainable pharmaceutical


business numbers one to have a broad and deep portfolio of diversified later phase drugs. Number


two we have a team of people who have done it before, have relevant experience, commitment and


passion for developing drugs. And number three have financial resources to carry out the strategic


plan.


Drug development is time consuming and expensive. It takes 15 plus years to bring a drug from


test tube to the market and it can cost in excess of $800 million. Many companies would perfectly


find drugs run out of cash and those drugs never see the light of the day and some companies go


out of the business. We believe that Spectrum, we're well on our way to achieving all the three


essential ingredients and we are grateful indeed to our shareholders, Board of Directors and to our


employees for this. Let me discuss each of these points.


First we are proud of our diversified product portfolio. Fundamentally we are a proprietary drug


acquisition and development Company, we're focused on Oncology. While furthering the


development of our current proprietary drugs, we continue to look at new opportunities to expand


our portfolio to build a large portfolio of later stage drugs in order to reduce the risk of drug
raw transcript


Spectrum Pharmaceuticals,


Inc.
 
SPPI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


development. In less than three years of beginning of Spectrum on December 9, 2002, we have


built a broad and deep pipeline of some seven proprietary drugs.


Few of these drugs Satraplatin for prostrate cancer and EOquin for superficial bladder cancer are


advancing closer to registration in the market. Satraplatin infact is in Phase III and EOquin,


[indiscernible] look in time elsamitrucin, all are in Phase II trails, while RenaZorb and SPI-1620 are


expected to be in Phase I human trails by next year. And drugs like Satraplatin and EOquin are


expected to move to the market place. Drugs such as SPI-1620 and RenaZorb having intended


rapidly to advance through income stages of development. While it is possible that Satraplatin if


successful could generate revenues beginning as early as fourth quarter of 2007 or soon thereafter,


we have filed several aggravated new drug applications with the FDA for genetic drugs and this has


been in an effort to develop an alternative source of near term revenue.


In this event [ph] I would like to point out that we currently have some nine ANDA's under review at


the FDA and we expect several approvals with the next 6-12 months. I am especially excited about


our ANDA with paragraph 4 certification Sumatriptan succinate injection. The genetic farm of


GlaxoSmithKline Imitrex injection, I will discuss this further in a few minutes. We will continue to


evaluate other drugs, both proprietary and generics. With a view to generating revenue in the near


term while continuing to develop promising drug candidates for long-term success.


For revenues from genetic drugs, one has too look at companies like Teva, IVAX, [indiscernible]


and others. We believe that if in order to achieve significant revenue from generic side of the


business which is possible, one must achieve a critical math of products and we hope to achieve


that once 15-20 of our drugs reach the marketplace. Secondly, we believe that we have assembled


an experienced team of professionals that have done it before and have development experience,


commitment and passion for developing drugs. We now have almost 40 employees and


consultants whose commitment is responsible for the rapid progress we have achieved. A team of


professionals in the Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Inc. includes now 6 MD's and several PhDs. Senior


members of the development team have proven track record in drug development, new drug


application filings, approvals and product commercialization's. In addition, it is their commitment


and passion at Spectrum for drug development that makes the ultimate difference. Recently, one of


our Independent Director Dr. Dilip Mehta was appointed as a Lead Director and Mr. Richard Fulmer


was appointed as a new Director. We now have six Directors on the Board of the Spectrum and five


of them are independent.


Mr. Fulmer is a Marketing and Business Development Executive whose career expanse over 30


years, with 24 years spent at Pfizer in a number of high level marketing and business development


positions, including over 5 years as Vice President, Licensing and Business Development. While at


Pfizer, he was a key part of the commercialization launch of the leading antifungal drug Di flucan or


fluconazole, Zoloft, the number one selling anti-depressant and the novel alpha-blocker Cardura


used for benign prostate hypertrophy. Mr. Fulmer was also responsible for the formation of an


strategic alliance with Eisai, a Japanese company, related to the commercial development of


Aricept or Alzheimer's disease. The creation of co-development and co-promotion agreement with


Park Davis for Lipitor and the licensing and marketing agreement with Pharmacia for its COX-2


inhibitor Celebrex.


This addition is particularly timely as the Spectrum begins the transition from purely a drug


acquisition and development company to a commercialization company as well. At Spectrum is set


advancing in our lead drugs, Satraplatin and EOquin are moving closer to registration and


marketing, we believe that Mr. Fulmer’s experience in launching significant new drugs and directing


a strategically important licensing deal mixing a valuable member of our already highly experienced


and qualified Board of Directors.