Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shiv S. Kapoor — Vice President-Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Joseph W. Turgeon — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Kurt A. Gustafson — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Principal Accounting Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Francois Lebel — Chief Medical Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Thomas J. Riga — Executive Vice President, Chief Operating & Commercial Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Adnan Butt — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Edward White — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to today's Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Fourth Quarter 2018 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Shiv Kapoor, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Thanks. Good afternoon to everyone on the call today. Thank you for joining us for Spectrum's fourth quarter 2018 financial results conference call. Our press release is available on our website at www.sppirx.com. Joe Turgeon, our CEO and President, will start the call today and provide an overview, followed by a financial update from our CFO, Kurt Gustafson and a discussion of our clinical development operations from our CMO, Dr. Francois Lebel.

These statements are not guarantees of future performance and undue reliance should not be placed on them. Such forward-looking statements necessarily involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause actual performance and financial results in future periods to differ materially from any projections of future performance or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

With that, let me hand the call over to Joe.

Thank you, Shiv. Good afternoon. Hello, everybody on the call. I appreciate your interest in Spectrum. 2018 was a very productive year for us at Spectrum. With my first full year as the CEO and as I reflect on the year, there are three major developments in 2018 that I'm very proud of and really defines who we are today.

The most significant development in 2018 was the advancement of our pipeline assets for the assets, poziotinib and ROLONTIS. 2018 was data rich for both pozi and ROLONTIS and the data strengthened our confidence in both of these assets. Under poziotinib program, we're investigating the treatment of exon 20 insertion mutations across tumor types, with an initial focus in non-small cell lung cancer. These mutations are among the most difficult to treat and currently have no FDA-approved targeted therapies.

In 2018, data from the MD Anderson Phase 2 study in non-small cell lung cancer patients with EGFR or HER2 exon 20 mutations demonstrated impressive anti-tumor activity. We are currently well underway with our pivotal trial for pozi in previously treated and in first line non-small cell lung cancer patients with both EGFR and HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations. Full enrolment of the previously targeted EGFR cohort was announced early January and we expect that the primary analysis results in the fourth quarter of this year.

For ROLONTIS, data from two Phase 3 trails demonstrated that was non-inferior in the standard of care with a similar safety profile. We submitted the BLA with the FDA in late December 2018. Due to the government shutdown, the file was officially received on January 28, 2019. So in essence, the government shutdown has delayed the process by about a month. The second major development in 2018 was our change in our business strategy. [indiscernible] (03:39) early in my tenure that it was in shareholders' best interest to move from a spec pharma company to a biopharma company, focused on bringing novel targeted treatments to patients in areas of high unmet medical need. The recent sale of our legacy products was a major strategic shift to ensure we're laser focused on novel oncology drug development. The proceeds generated by the sale will significantly strengthen our financial position. With the upfront cash payment of $160 million, we have significantly accelerated the realization of the cash flow of those legacy products. The cash will primarily be used for the development efforts of poziotinib and pre-launch activities for ROLONTIS.

Additionally, as we streamline the company and focus on our late-stage [ph] value (04:24) drivers, we have discontinued the QAPZOLA development program in bladder cancer as it no longer fits our strategic direction. At this point, we're looking to out-license the asset through our business development function. As we look at 2019, poziotinib and ROLONTIS will be our primary focus while we're also exploring opportunities beyond our existing pipeline. The funds provided by the sale of the legacy assets allows us to evaluate additional growth opportunities.

And the third and final major development in 2018 was the addition of our Chief Medical Officer and a drastic strengthening of our corporate governance. Dr. Francois Lebel joined our executive team in November, and has since played a crucial role in bolstering our team and refining our clinical approach. Regarding corporate governance, we eliminated the poison pill, enabled proxy access and majority voting and added very accomplished board members with the appropriate experience needed as we advance our business. In all, we made tremendous progress in 2018, and are very enthusiastic as 2019 is already off to a great start.

Now with that, I'd like to turn over to Kurt to talk about the financials.

Thank you, Joe. So starting with the top line, we had a solid quarter with total revenues for the fourth quarter of $29.4 million, of which $28 million were product sales. For the year, total revenue was $109.3 million, which is at the top end of our most recent guidance of $100 million to $110 million in total revenue.

SG&A expenses were $23.3 million for the fourth quarter, up from $19.8 million in the third quarter, mostly driven by higher legal costs associated with the divestiture of our commercial assets. SG&A expenses for the year were $19.7 million. R&D expenses were $34.5 million for the quarter, up from $21.1 million in the previous quarter. As we stated in the past, R&D expenses are going to ramp up as we further develop poziotinib and prepare for the commercialization of ROLONTIS. The Increase in the fourth quarter is driven by two factors related to ROLONTIS. First, we paid $2.7 million to the FDA for the ROLONTIS BLA filing fee. And second in the fourth quarter, we spent $14.9 million to build pre-commercial inventory.

Let me give you some context about our accounting practice as it relates to this inventory. Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, we are required to expense this inventory until the product and facility have been approved by the FDA. When this product is later sold, we will report this inventory at a zero cost of goods. Moving to full year R&D expenses, total R&D expenses to the year were $95 million. Of this $95 million in R&D expenditures, $25.7 million was for the purchase of pre-commercial and clinical supply of both ROLONTIS and poziotinib. We ended the year with $157.5 million in cash and $46.5 million of marketable securities for a total of $204 million of available liquidity. Cash burn in the quarter was $9.1 million and cash burn for the year was $69.8 million.

Regarding the divestiture of our commercial assets to Acrotech, we have clearance from the FTC and we expect the deal to close in March. As we look ahead to 2019, assuming the deal closes in March, we expect 2019 SG&A cost to decrease by approximately 30% relative to 2018. We expect R&D costs to be nominally higher from they were last year as lower spend on the legacy assets is offset by increased spending on pre-commercial supply in tech transfer activities for both ROLONTIS and poziotinib.

With the increase of cash with the sale of our commercial assets, we expect that our cash balance will be sufficient to fund operations for at least three years.

With that, let me now hand the call over to Francois to cover updates on our clinical program.

Thanks, Kurt, hello, everyone. Regarding our clinical development program, 2018 ended strongly and we started 2019 with great momentum. Joe has already spoken about the BLA filing for ROLONTIS. This is a very important milestone for the future of Spectrum. The poziotinib clinical program is aggressively moving forward. In early January, we announced that the EGFR previously treated cohort in our pivotal trial is fully enrolled. The last patient was enrolled in January and if we assume at least eight weeks to confirm responses and we follow patients for six months to assess durability, that takes us to being able to release top line data in Q4 of this year.

Let me remind you that this first cohort is very important because it's meant to provide the data required for poziotinib NDA submission. We also recently announced that the second cohort is expected to be fully enrolled by Q4. Cohort 2 is devaluating previously treated non-small cell lung cancer, patients with HER2 exon 20 insertion mutations. Additionally, we continue to enroll the two cohorts evaluating poziotinib as first-line treatment in the same mutation. As a reminder, each cohort in the ZENITH20 trial is considered an independent study with pre-specified statistical hypothesis and power.

Beyond previously treated and first-line non-small cell lung cancer, we are planning to evaluate poziotinib in two other areas of unmet need. First, a pan-tumor setting with a basket study. This mutation has been reported not only in non-small cell lung cancer but has been seen in several other solid tumor types. Second, we are also planning combination studies in non-small cell with exon 20 insertion mutation. We are looking to start these trial in the second half of the year, so more to come on that.

As I reflect on my first few months at Spectrum, I could not be more enthusiastic about our future. We have filed a BLA, which gives us the opportunity to bring to the market a novel, long-acting G-CSF for cancer patients suffering from chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. And with poziotinib, we have an exciting development program in an area of high unmet medical need. Poziotinib has shown impressive anti-tumor activity in a hard-to-treat patient population and I look forward to sharing result from our ongoing pivotal study later this year.

Our team is excited and focused on the 2019 clinical development milestones and I will be keeping you updated throughout the year.

Now, I'll turn it back to Joe.

Thank you, Francois. With that, operator, I'd like to open the lines for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Alethia Young from Cantor Fitzgerald. Your line is open.

Hi. This is [ph] Ana (13:00) on for Alethia. For cohort 1 of ZENITH20, can you help us frame whether that trial is powered based on the prior exon 20 studies or [indiscernible] (13:09) lung cancer population that the FDA uses the comparator for the breakthrough decision?

So, as you know, good question, as you know, this is a question we get quite frequently, [ph] Ana (13:19). We would love to share with you some of the statistical parameters that we actually know what we need to meet. We've had discussion with the FDA, that was an agreement full understanding of what we need to meet. And I think you're referring a little bit back to the breakthrough designation discussion, but this is totally different. For an approval, the bar is difficult and we – the only thing I can tell you is, we understand it very well and we're on our way to get there, but I unfortunately cannot disclose those parameters today.

Okay. And then just on ROLONTIS, can you give us any color on the specific commercial build-out efforts?

Yeah. First of all, the commercial build-out will – we always do that prior to a launch. So when we get our PDUFA date, well, we can start the timing you want to – we will start to expand our sales force probably a few months before we anticipate a launch. However, I want to stress that we did keep in our – when we sold the in-line products, part of the deal we were able to keep key leaders and some key personnel with experience in this field, so the core of the team is still here and are already preparing training et cetera to launch this effectively. And our plan is to hire the right people to expand the sales force to what we need. As we stated – as Kurt stated, we've already started to purchase some commercial product because the last thing I want to do – I've been involved in many, many launches, the last thing you want to do is run short of supply when you launch. So we're excited, we're getting ready and at the right time we'll be ready to launch this product.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Adnan Butt from Guggenheim Securities. Your line is open.

Hey, thanks and congrats on strengthening the balance sheet position. Joe, I wanted to ask for the MD Anderson study, it seemed that enrollment in the HER2 cohort has progressed since October, do you expect that data to be updated this year and if so, when?

Yeah. Hey, Adnan. Firstly, two things about the HER2. What we saw – to remind you, we saw the first 13 patients at World Lung, 12 of those were evaluable on HER2 side. By the way, that was the first human data I'm aware of in HER2. So that was important data. And it was at – the confirmed ORR was 42%, so right in line with the EGFR, I'll mention that. I'm not sure exactly how many patients will be the final number in that cohort in MD Anderson. The reason I say that, Adnan, is Dr. Heymach is now moved on and he is now a site for us in our trial. So the next part of your question, when will you announce – however other patients are on [ph] their HER2, how long – with an (16:35) update on EGFR that was fully enrolled? I'm not sure when, I do know this plan is to do some kind of publication in a major medical journal. I can't tell you exactly when that will be.

Or can you say is that this year?

I don't know that will be this year, I don't think it will be at the beginning of the year, but I would have to talk to John about when he's submitting and who is admitting to. I don't know, if you want to add to that, Francois?

Yeah, that's [indiscernible] (17:07) but I have met with John recently and he certainly had the intention to submit something at some appropriate scientific venue before the end of the year, but whether or not that will happen obviously, John is the one to – would be able to tell you.

Okay. Then one on the ZENITH study, given the unmet need, I'd have imagined that front-line studies would enroll quickly as well. Are you sort of guiding as to which cohort should enroll first, why the differences in cadence for enrolment?

Yeah, so, well, we are guiding you that the cadence will be different, cohort 1 is fully enrolled, and obviously that's not first time. And the second cohort expected to be enrolled as cohort 2, which we've indicated will be by the end of this year. Cohort 3 and cohort 4, it's too early to tell at this point which one would finish first and we don't know and we can't really prognosticate at this point.

Maybe for Kurt, Kurt, three-year cash guidance, does that incorporate potential approvals and launches of poziotinib and ROLONTIS?

Yeah, great question, Adnan. So, I think, as we take a look at our forecast, we feel great about the ROLONTIS data and the BLA filing, so our forecast does include a launch of ROLONTIS sometime in 2020, and so that is included in that guidance.

Okay, thanks.

Thanks Adnan. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Ed White from H. C. Wainwright. Your line is open.

Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question. So, I just want to go back to Kurt about the cash burn guidance. And does that include the $140 million in potential milestone payments from the deal?

So the way we look at this and as we don't include any sort of new business development activity in that forecast and so those milestones at this point are uncertain. So they would not be part of that forecast. So I'm just taking the existing cash balance of $157 million plus the cash we expect to receive from Acrotech. And based on that we roll out it, we roll that to our forecast and it's certainly takes us through the next three years.

Okay, great. Thanks, Kurt. And then we've talked about the timeline going forward for pozi in the U.S. I mean, just wondering if you can update us on the expected timelines for the EU and Japan. You've mentioned before that EU has potentially more patients to address than the U.S. and Japan is another 5,000 potential patients to address. So I'm just curious as to any thoughts of a timeline for submission in Europe and Japan?

Yeah. So, first of all, we have activities like you were mentioning on – we have over – globally over 40 sites open and we are working through the various regulatory process in Europe to get to – so cohort 1, cohort 2 [ph] certainly (21:02) were open. Cohort 3 and cohort 4 is in the process of opening and we are actively engaging with regulators in Japan. I can't tell you more about it at this time but I think that gives you an idea of where we're going.

Okay. And then lastly just on ROLONTIS and you're working towards the potential launch there. I'm just wondering if you've started talking to payers yet, and I'm curious as to how that discussion – if started yet, how that discussion is going especially with the – as you mentioned, the biosimilars [ph] that sort of (21:56) give you – you had expected biosimilars and actually it gives you a leg up on Neulasta. I just wanted to see what the payers are thinking of, if you can share anything with us on that?

Hey, Ed. It's Tom. We have...

Hi, Tom.

As we've mentioned in comments here, we've kept a core of our commercial function and we do have a systematic built-out throughout the year. So, if we go back to Kurt's guidance on a 30% reduction in SG&A, that is including the commercial build-out throughout 2019. One of the first areas that we'll be engaged is that payers just to have a clear line of sight into that dynamic of what it looks like with the biosimilars, and we're getting our first look of that impact into the market. We're monitoring it very closely. So, we are in the throws of our full execution of our plan and feeling really good about where we sit today.

Hey, Ed, I'll add to that two things. Number one, reminding you and everybody that we are novel, which puts us in a unique position, I think that's important to just remind people of. And secondly that in all of our modeling, and you know I've talked about this in the past, every model we had, we had two to three biosimilars on the market when we launched. So this is nothing that we didn't plan or didn't anticipate. So I'll just remind you that.

Okay, great, Joe. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Ed.

This ends the question-and-answer portion of the call. I would now like to turn the conference back to Joe Turgeon.

Thank you, operator. Thank you everybody to your questions and your participation and interest today. In 2019, we're building a solid foundation for prospective future and poziotinib and ROLONTIS are the cornerstones. I want you know we're enthusiastic about our new directions and the year ahead. Have a great day everybody. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day. You may all disconnect.