Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shiv S. Kapoor — VP-Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Rajesh C. Shrotriya — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Kurt A. Gustafson — Executive VP, Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Joseph G. Turgeon — President & Chief Operating Officer, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Lee F. Allen — Chief Medical Officer & Senior Vice President, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Thomas Riga — Chief Commercial Officer & Senior Vice President, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Adnan S. Butt — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Difei Yang — Analyst, R.F. Lafferty & Co., Inc.
Reni J. Benjamin — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Spectrum Pharmaceuticals Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call will be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Mr. Shiv Kapoor, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Katherine. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today for Spectrum's second quarter 2014 financial results conference call. I'm Shiv Kapoor, Vice President of Strategic Planning and Investor Relations for Spectrum Pharmaceuticals.

With me today are Dr. Raj Shrotriya, Chairman and CEO; Joe Turgeon, President and Chief Operating Officer; Kurt Gustafson, Chief Financial Officer; Lee Allen, Chief Medical Officer; Tom Riga, Chief Commercial Officer; and other senior members of Spectrum's management team.

Here is an outline of today's call. First, Dr. Shrotriya will provide you with the highlights of the second quarter and discuss our overall direction strategy. Kurt will then provide a summary of our second quarter financial performance. Following this, Joe will review the company's operations and Lee will review the pipeline. We will then open up the call for questions.

Before I pass the call to Dr. Shrotriya, I'd like to remind everyone that during this call we will be making forward-looking statements regarding future events of Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, including statements about the product sales, profits and losses, the safety, efficacy, development, timeline and clinical results of our drug products and drug candidates that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially.

These risks are further described in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements represent the company's judgment as of the date of this conference call, August 7, 2014, and the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements. However, we may choose to update them, and if we do so, we will disseminate the updates to the investing public. For copies of today's press release, historical press releases, 10-Ks, 10-Qs, 8-Ks, and other SEC filings and other important information, please visit our website at www.sppirx.com.

I'd now like to hand the call over to Dr. Shrotriya.

Thank you, Shiv. And thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. We have been very busy at Spectrum and I'm pleased about the progress we have made. Let me cover some of our team's recent accomplishments. Number one, first, we have been successful in getting FDA approval for BELEODAQ on July 3, more than a month before the PDUFA date.

Our team was prepared for the early approval and we made the drug available for relapsed or refractory PTCL patients within two weeks of approval. As you know, we had acquired the rights for BELEODAQ, while in development at TopoTarget just about four years ago.

Second, we are making good progress in preparing the NDA submission for our second drug Captisol-enabled melphalan. With the Captisol-enabled melphalan technology, Melphalan is now stable four times to eight times longer using this technology. This drug fits well with our existing medical and commercial infrastructure and you might remember, we had acquired the rights to CE melphalan in March of last year from Ligand. And as you may know by now several drugs using this combination technology have been approved by the FDA.

Thirdly, we have now completely enrolled all patients in this important Phase II trial for SPI-2012 of a normal long-acting GCSF and we will be making a Phase III go/no go decision later this year. We had acquired the rights to our long-acting GCSF from Hanmi in 2012. We believe SPI-2012 has the potential to be a blockbuster drug in our later-stage portfolio.

Fourthly, we're also pleased with the developments in our ongoing FUSILEV litigation. Last month, the second of two courts also ruled in Spectrum's favor in its Markman decision. The [ph] eight to nine patents (5:07) on FUSILEV currently extends to March 7, 2022. We will continue to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights. We remain confident about our intellectual property position.

I'm delighted to see solid double-digit growth in our core business. It is clear to us that the efforts we have made on the commercial front are starting to bear fruits. Joe will cover this in more detail shortly.

Overall I'm very pleased with the direction of the company, Spectrum can now leverage [indiscernible] (5:42) hematology, oncology, FDA-approved products, many of which are targeted for patients who have very limited options. I'm proud that our team has maintained fiscal discipline. As a diversified company, we have to make some important decisions continuously to prioritize our products.

Joe Turgeon who was recently promoted as President and Chief Operating Officer of the company has taken some important initiatives that I am excited about, and he will talk more about it. We have created a solid foundation for future growth at Spectrum and we are excited about the future of the company. Over the next 15 minutes or so, Kurt, Joe and Lee will provide an update on various aspects of our business. Kurt?

Thank you Raj, and good afternoon to everyone on the call today. The press release covers all the important figures, so in my remarks I'll touch on a few of the highlights of the quarter that I believe are particularly important.

First on sales. We had $46.9 million in total product sales in the second quarter compared to $32.2 million in the same quarter last year, a growth rate of 45%. On a sequential quarter basis, sales were up 17% from $40.1 million in the first quarter.

FUSILEV sales were $26.6 million in the second quarter, a 106% increase versus the same quarter last year and a 20% increase over the first quarter of 2014. We continue to see strong FUSILEV end-user demand. As I mentioned last quarter, we have seen a slight uptick in the underlying demands which continued into the second quarter. Wholesaler inventory levels remained relatively stable from the prior quarter.

FOLOTYN net sales were $12.6 million. This was flat compared to last year and a 25% increase over the first quarter of this year. The majority of the growth is due to an increase in underlying demand and to a lesser extent sales were also positively impacted by the fact that FOLOTYN is now being sold under a more typical specialty distribution model, which resulted in approximately 1 million of additional sales as a one-time sale of the channel. We continue to see the underlying demand of FOLOTYN tracking in the $10 million to $12 million range. ZEVALIN sales were $6.3 million and MARQIBO sales were $1.4 million.

Let me move on to cover our operating expenses on a GAAP basis. Total research and development expenses for the second quarter were $11.3 million as compared to $10.5 million in the same period of 2013. SG&A expenses for the second quarter of 2014 were $25.4 million as compared to $22.6 million in the same period of 2013. We remain physically disciplined in our approach to funding programs. Joe will talk to you about some of the work we've been doing in portfolio management to ensure that we are making investments in programs that will drive future value.

The increase in SG&A costs was driven by two factors. First, we had higher legal costs as we defend our intellectual property, and second, there was an increase in sales and marketing costs. However, I'm proud of the fact that we are now marketing two additional products relative to 2013 and have done this with minimal increase in costs as we realize the leverage of our focus in oncology.

On a GAAP basis, the net loss for the quarter was $3.6 million or $0.06 per basic and per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $9.7 million or $0.16 per basic and diluted share in the second quarter of 2013.

On a non-GAAP basis, net income was $6.8 million or $0.11 per basic and $0.09 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $5.3 million or $0.09 per basic and diluted share for the same period in 2013. We continue to have a strong balance sheet. Operating cash flow is strong and we ended the quarter with $136 million in cash.

Now, let me hand the call over to Joe, to provide an operational update.

Thank you, Kurt. Thank you, Dr. Raj. And most importantly, thank you everybody on the call who is interested in Spectrum. Just taking the role of President and Chief Operating Officer just about three months ago, I have taken a hard look at our clinical development program to ensuring maximize the commercial opportunities.

Our pipeline is an important asset, second only to our people. Our goal is to invest in the key areas that enhance the care of cancer patients while increasing shareholder value. Prior to speaking on the enhancements that we made to our clinical development program, let me first provide you my perspective on our core business, which now includes five drugs.

A good indicator of our commercial strength is the quarterly performance of our products. This is the fourth consecutive quarter, we've reported sales over $40 million, and in the second quarter, we realized double-digit growth over the first. FUSILEV sales grew 20% quarter-over-quarter driven by solid end-user demand. The inflection in end-user demand is specifically in the community oncology segment where 90% of our business now resides. Lastly, wholesaler inventories remain within the predetermined guardrails.

Overall, I'm very pleased with our performance of FUSILEV and believe we are gaining a deeper understanding of what this product will consistently deliver. Our strategy is sound and the disciplined execution being demonstrated by our people is solid. I continue to have confidence about the strength [indiscernible] (11:44) core business.

Spectrum is a leader – in a leadership position with our PTCL franchise having two unique products now indicated for the treatment of these patients. As you know, peripheral T-cell lymphoma is a fatal disease. It's really difficult to treat with the most effective drugs in the setting providing over only a 25% to 30% overall response rate. Those patients who initially respond usually fail treatment and progress within a year. Therefore, patients routinely cycle through several lines of therapy.

FOLOTYN, an antifolate, was the first drug approved for PTCL patients in 2009. FOLOTYN demonstrated strong quarter-over-quarter double-digit growth primarily driven by increased end-user demand. I'm excited that we just launched BELEODAQ, a novel HDAC inhibitor. We're very pleased that BELEODAQ received priority review by the FDA, despite the prior approval of three other drugs in this indication. BELEODAQ was also approved five weeks ahead of the scheduled PDUFA date, a rather uncommon occurrence.

We were prepared for the early approval, patients are already being treated, and early feedbacks from thought-leaders is very positive. We believe that BELEODAQ has a unique safety profile and has demonstrated efficacy across the various PTCL subtypes. As BELEODAQ fits perfectly into our existing commercial organization, we're now driving end-user demand, so that the promise of this product for patients may be realized.

For MARQIBO our sales in the second quarter were $1.4 million. The current indication is adult Philadelphia negative relapsed refractory ALL. A niche indication with approximately 1,600 adult patients a year in the U.S. We believe the potential of MARQIBO could be significant beyond the current indication. MARQIBO is a liposomal form of vinCRIStine, which is a well-established treatment in multiple hematologic and solid tumor types.

The long-term growth potential for this product will be driven by our research efforts to study the possible expansion of the current indications into the broader ALL and NHL studies. Based on our progress in Q2, I'm pleased with the changes that we made within the commercial organization and expect our progress to continue.

As I mentioned earlier, we have made some strategic enhancements to our clinical development program. I'd like to share with you a few of the highlights. As I mentioned earlier, at the top of the list is SPI-2012. This is an opportunity that has the potential to change the growth trajectory of our company. As Dr. Raj mentioned, this is a high priority program for Spectrum.

The Phase 2 study is fully enrolled and we expect all patients to be fully dosed by the end of this month. We're in a good position to evaluate the results for the Phase 2 study, discuss these with the FDA and make a Phase 3 go/no go decision this year.

As I mentioned before SPI-2012, could give us a real chance to compete in the blockbuster market. We've taken a hard look into our medical programs through the lens of commercial viability; enhanced patient care and shareholder value. We'll be doing this for all products in the future, but we've made some decisions regarding ZEVALIN, that I want to share with you.

We've made an important strategic decision regarding the ZEST trial. This trial was enrolling very slowly, required significant capital investment over time and would not have yielded results leading to an indication expansion in a timely fashion. Therefore we've discontinued the study. At the same time, we've made the decision to invest in new smaller ZEVALIN studies that target unmet medical need and could bolster our commercial trajectory.

We are evaluating every drug and every clinical trial to ensure our resources are being used wisely. We are focusing our spend on products and indication that will have higher probability of success, satisfy significant unmet medical need, have meaningful market potential and have rapid and a defined path to the market.

At Spectrum, we're in a strong position to execute our mission to REDEFINE CANCER CARE. The changes that we have recently made coupled with a velocity of our core business give me great confidence that we'll be able to realize the promise of our pipeline and deliver shareholder value.

I'd like to pass the call over now to Dr. Lee Allen, our Chief Medical Officer.

Thank you, Joe. We remain very excited about our robust cancer pipeline and continue to work diligently on building additional operational efficiencies. Today, I'll provide you with a brief update on our clinical development programs for BELEODAQ, Captisol-Enabled Melphalan and SPI-2012, our long-acting GCSF compound.

As Joe mentioned previously, the major development in July was the early FDA approval of BELEODAQ for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma. We believe this decision reflects the activity of BELEODAQ, the strength of its data package, our team's successful strategy in preparing [ph] to this (16:44) FDA, and the FDA's commitment to providing new treatment options to address the unmet medical need for patients with relapsed or refractory PTCL.

Our team is continuing to work diligently on our next FDA submission which will be a 505(b)(2) filing for Captisol-Enabled Melphalan. As we have discussed, Captisol is a unique modified cyclodextrin that was rationally designed and has already been successfully used to improve drug solubility, stability, bioavailability and the dosing for several other FDA approved drugs. For Melphalan, its use has enabled the elimination of the need for propylene glycol, which has been associated with significant toxicities, and it has also improved Melphalan stability allowing for longer infusion times and potentially the administration of higher dose intensities.

We have already announced the positive preliminary data from the pivotal Phase 3 study, which met its primary endpoint. In addition, we have had a pre-NDA meeting with FDA and are making good progress on preparing Captisol-Enabled Melphalan NDA submission.

For SPI-2012, our novel long-acting granulocyte stimulating factor, the Phase 2 dose finding study is now completely enrolled and we look forward to meeting with the FDA for end of Phase 2 meeting before the end of this year. By linking GCSF to a specifically engineered protein carrier through the novel LAPSCOVERY technology. The half life of this novel GCSF molecule was increased, meaning potentially circulate in the blood stream longer. This formulation also leads to greater bone marrow penetration.

In summary, we have a very robust pipeline with a lot of promise that we are aggressively advancing. We plan to meet or exceed each of our project milestones and consistently drive the development of high quality products that positively impact the lives of cancer patients.

I'll now turn the call back to Dr. Raj.

Thank you, Dr. Lee. As you just heard, this is an exciting time for Spectrum and the foundation is in place to continue to leverage our growth. We continue to develop and grow into a much more diversified company. We now have five drugs on the market. We will be submitting another new drug application for Captisol-Enabled Melphalan soon and for Apaziquone thereafter. We will make a very important decision on one of our highest priorities in our pipeline SPI-2012 and continue to prioritize our programs.

I would now like to open the call for questions.

Katherine, can you open the line for question?

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from of Adnan Butt from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi, everyone. Congrats on the great execution. So a high-level question first on commercial side. And at what stage should we become comfortable that the revenues being reflected can be used as a – sort of run rate going forward? Or do you expect some volatility? That's the first question.

And then second, there is a pipeline question on 2012, which dose do you think 2012 might advance with, and is there a specific non-inferiority metric that needs to be hit to decide on a go/no go? And a number of companies have announced plans for their GCSFs. So, what kind of a program needs to be run, what's the commercial opportunity here? Thanks.

Thank you, Adnan. So with regard to your first question, you know that we have had four quarters of sequential growth in our revenue. So in terms of reflection of business, I think we are making a slow and steady progress. We now have a fifth drug that was approved just last month and launched and we are now preparing for the sixth drug. So I'm hoping and expecting that our revenue trajectory will continue.

On the second aspect of SPI-2012, you know the current Phase 2 trial is designed to have four components to it. One is the comparative drug and then three doses of SPI-2012. And once the data is completed, our expectation is that we would pick the best dose. And you know the FDA had already approved one drug in this area. This is an area where there is a well laid out path for development of a molecule.

So clearly, our goal is that once we have Phase 2 data, we plan to meet with the FDA. In fact, we are planning to request a meeting with the FDA soon and within 60 days – usually FDA takes about 60 days to grant this meeting. So we are hoping that before the end of the year, we would have a meeting with the FDA and depending upon the input we get, we will design a Phase 3 trial that will start sometime in early next year.

Perhaps a little bit more to that. As you know, the LAPSCOVERY Technology is different than the other molecule. So currently approved molecule is a PEGylated formulation. That formulation attaches covalently polyethylene glycol and what it does is actually coat the molecule. And while that decreases its degradation and renal clearance, it also reduces the activity of the molecule.

So LAPSCOVERY Technology is very different. It covalently links to carrier molecule. This carrier molecule keeps it in the blood stream and allows it to have a longer duration of action, and also it increases its uptake into cell. So there is good scientific rationale and mechanistic reasons to think there maybe differences, but obviously the data will tell.

Just a follow-up on 2012. In terms of the competitive space, is it truly competitive or 2012 is differentiated?

Well again, the majority of molecules that are in development are still short acting molecules. So there is only one [indiscernible] (23:53) the molecule is long-acting. And again I think the data itself will tell you whether there will be differentiation or not. We think that we have some advantages that from the marketing perspective that may be important.

Okay.

Adnan [indiscernible] (24:08)

Okay.

This is Joe, Adnan. How are you doing? I just got to add that I just really look forward to competing in a multi-billion dollar market.

And I think, Adnan, you might remember that Joe was a sponsor for launching the only other long-acting GCSF that is in the market right now, which is bringing about $6 billion in worldwide sales. In fact that was launched under the tutelage of Joe Turgeon. So, we are very proud to have this team that actually launched a very successful drug in this space.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Difei Yang from R.F. Lafferty. Your line is open.

Hi, good afternoon everyone. Thanks for taking my question. Just few quick ones. With regards to FUSILEV, it looks like Q2, you had a great quarter Q2. So I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit more color of what might be driving the revenue.

So, let me ask our Chief Commercial Officer, Tom Riga to talk about this first.

Yeah, Difei. I'll give some additional color around that number. When we look at our performance, it's driven by solid end-user demand that is largely within the community oncology segment, as 90% of our business is there. I would also look to that result and look at the decisions we made structurally within our commercial organization that we're truly benefiting from. We've designed a sales team that's focusing specifically on the market. We have a fantastic leadership team that's executing very well and the strength of our people in that space is bearing fruit.

And so, is there any inventory adjustment that's included in the revenue?

So let me have Kurt to talk about this.

Yeah, so there is no real inventory adjustment at the wholesaler level, the wholesaler inventories remain relatively stable, have been stable for the last few quarters.

Thank you. And then moving on to the next product, MARQIBO. So if we look at launch trajectory it's sort of – it's somewhat flat right now and would you give us a little bit more color with regards to your expectation of the product uptake and how would it like – likely to be adopted by the patients and doctors.

So Difei, let me first remind you what MARQIBO is. MARQIBO is a novel liposomal formulation of vinCRIStine. And vinCRIStine is a well established anti-cancer drug that is effective in a dozen oncology settings both hematological and solid tumors, in fact it is the core for treating all lymphoma used commonly at CHOP or CBD. The vinCRIStine or Oncovin is really MARQIBO. So what we have demonstrated and then – so it's the number one problem – that's the number one issue that you should realize that MARQIBO has vinCRIStine in a novel formulation.

Second thing we should know is that vinCRIStine, while a good anticancer drug as it is up until MARQIBO could not be given in the dosage that are effective. So for the first time when you give MARQIBO, you're actually giving vinCRIStine in a dosage without being afraid of the neuropathy. FDA has put a warning that you cannot increase the dose of more than 2 milligrams per meter square of vinCRIStine.

For the first time, there is no upper limit on how much MARQIBO can be given. So keep in mind. Third thing is that the current indication for which MARQIBO has been approved is a Philadelphia negative ALL, a very small indication that total in the United States 1,600 patients, that are treated about 200 centers by 200 doctors. So it's a very small market that we're launching this drug. When we acquired the rights of this drug and we -- fully aware that the current indication is for a very small market.

However, they are also aware of the potential of this drug. Wherever CHOP is used in fact we now has a trial comparing head-to-head CHOP with [ph] chem (28:47). So in other words, in the CHOP setting, we're replacing Oncovin – vinCRIStine with MARQIBO. So all those things are going to happen. So in order to appreciate the full potential of this drug, you have to wait for some more data coming in and more usage taking place. In current approved indication, the sales will remain low.

Yeah. Thank you for the explanation. That's very helpful. My last question is, with regards to BELEODAQ, the new product that just received approval. So where are we with regards to reimbursement on that product?

So Joe you want to take this question?

Sure. First of all, in the peripheral T-cell lymphoma market, virtually all drugs are paid for, because this is a very small market in the big picture. It's a fatal disease, patients go through several drugs through their therapies. So BELEODAQ, we just started selling it, as you know, I'm not worried about reimbursement for this product just like all the products in this space.

And would there be a process you need to go through or we can just assume the patient demand will automatically be translated into revenue?

Yeah, I'll take that one, Joe. So the process for the J-code, we'll launch with a miscellaneous J-code, not atypical of any other Part b launch within the oncology market. And as it relates to driving demand then it's absolutely what we intend to do with our field force. Being a leader in this space, having two products 50% of the approved drugs for this disease will give us added time with our physicians because their unique mechanism of action, it will allow us to maintain and grow our antifolate business with FOLOTYN and accelerate and compete assertively in the HDAC space as we have a novel HDAC inhibitor. So we're excited about the opportunity and look forward to asserting our leadership.

So, Difei, let me remind you that in 2009 FOLOTYN was the first drug ever approved by the FDA for treatment of PTCL. So actually, we know this market like back of our hand. And out of this three drugs that actually have a full label PTCL, we own 75% of the market with FOLOTYN and now BELEODAQ.

The third drug from Seattle Genetics, also has a sub type of PTCL in the package insert. However out of the three approved drugs with full PTCL label, Spectrum owns 75% of the market and we therefore know this space extremely well. And we are very excited about it because it's two drugs that we now have, have different mechanisms of action. One is a folate analog, FOLOTYN and one is an HDAC inhibitor and BELEODAQ. And in oncology as you know drugs that have different mechanisms of action and different toxicities are often combined for better effect. And in fact we are right now exploring some preclinical studies to see whether the two drugs can be combined to achieve a better response rate.

Yeah, thank you that's very helpful.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Ren Benjamin from H.C. Wainwright. Your line is open.

Hey, good afternoon, guys and congratulations on a great quarter. Just a couple of questions or couple regarding ZEVALIN. What trials are remaining that the company is sponsoring and can you talk – and do any of them have survivals in endpoint? And can you talk a little bit about the other smaller trial indications that you will be exploring. What kind of indications? And will they be more IST type trials or ones that are corporate sponsored?

So Ren, let me ask Dr. Lee to respond to this question. But before he does that, let me put to you, we have no trials where survival is the endpoint at this time. They are doing trials in area where some abstracts have been published, some work has been done that shows that ZEVALIN has an added advantage for the patient's benefit. So maybe Dr. Lee you can comment upon the ...

Sure. I'll just start with a brief introduction and address the question specifically. As you know, radio immunotherapy is almost like a lost art at this point in time [indiscernible] (33:30) market, we're the only player in town at this point in time. There are a lot of physicians that really believe that this is an important mechanism. I think what we've learned is that – our opportunity here is to generate some data to provide education and re-educate physicians. Our understanding is that this modality of treatment is not even taught in residency programs anymore. And so again, we think that small short-term trials will be able to put us in the forum for discussions around that.

Two, the types of trial, there will be both sponsor-initiated studies that we will sponsor ourselves and we're currently in discussions with top leaders around those. Those will be on labeled target indications and we'll hopefully be able to get to the decision point within the next several months on the design of those. In addition to those specific trials, we are also sponsoring investigator-initiated research. And there's a couple of different ones that we're considering or have moved on including the use of that product with physician regimens for aggressive lymphoma. So diffuse large b-cell lymphoma, [indiscernible] (34:40) in combination, for which there is already preliminary data out there.

So sort of approaching this from several different aspects both investigator-initiated studies, sponsor-initiated studies, and then also really looking to re-educate the clinical community about the utility of this modality of treatment.

Good. Thank you. Joe, you want to make a comment?

Yeah, Ren, one other thing, this is Joe. The only other thing I want to comment. One other things you clearly see when you talk to thought-leaders and Docs around is we want to provide some, what I'll call and there was modern data. Most of the data around here is 12 years old and we want to give them some fresh new data that they can use quickly and again we can take action quickly commercially with that.

Got it. Switching gears to CE Melphalan, I know that, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that it's going to undergo the 505(b)(2) pathway. Can you talk to us a little bit about, I believe you're going to submit the application this third quarter. Can you talk to us little bit about how long you expect the review period to be? When do you think the drug could be launched?

So, as you know, the 505(b)(2) does not give you any priority, it's a normal review, which normally you can run from 10 months to 12 months time period, but what I can tell you is that we had a meeting with the FDA, what's called pre-NDA meeting or end of Phase 2 meeting. And it was a very positive, very productive meeting, and we came back and then we started working on the final as we speak. So we expect decisions, once we file this application, we expect about 12 months.

We're still on track for filing ...

So Dr. Lee?

Yeah, I was just going to add a little bit about – a little more color on the FDA dialog. Obviously, we don't usually talk about FDA communications, but this case really, I mean they were very encouraging. So although again it will be subject to the standard review because that's what the 505(b)(2)'s will get. We've already seen, in our case an example where sometimes these are made earlier than that. So we're very optimistic about the timeline for review and we will be submitting that application in next several months.

Got it. Switching gears to FUSILEV, I know Kurt in the last conference call mentioned that he had seen an uptick and clearly translated into the revenues this quarter. Anything that you're seeing, going into the third quarter, uptick, downtick, relatively stable?

You don't want me to talk about third quarter and second quarter, do you?

No, that's true. But how – going forward for the rest of the year maybe.

I would just say that we are very excited with the result that we are seeing in the market place.

Okay. [inaudible]

(37:31).

How many sales people and total employees right there in the firm now? And do you think that that will expand by the end of the year? Or do you think that you've got the optimal force?

Well, we are very frugal when it comes to hiring people. When we have need for five people, we have one person. So our people work very hard, they're very committed, [indiscernible] (38:00). Owners of the company, every single employee in the company including receptionists is a owner of the company. They all have – their interest are aligned with all the shareholders. So I'd say the number right now is little over 200 people in the company and I don't know what else your question was?

I'll tell you this Ren, I think from a commercial side, what Tom has done is I think take what we have and redeploy. Do you remember in the last call, we said we were redeploying our sales forces. I think that's part of the execution you're seeing. And I'll always let the math right size [ph] ourselves (38:42). So my question is, will it be at the end of this year, next year, whenever, we'll do the math and what I want to be is right sized to get the job done. That would be my answer.

And how many sales people are onboard right now?

So we have 100 people in our commercial operation. Commercial operation is the largest block of people under the leadership of Tom Riga and they have about 100 people in the commercial operation.

Got it. And just one final question, regarding data presentations and milestones for the rest of the year. Anything that we should be focusing on, I mean obviously besides 2012, which will get by the end of the year, but at ASH or at AACR triple meeting or anything that we – that's not on our radar screen right now.

So Dr. Lee?

Yeah, maybe I'll comment briefly. So for this year, I think there will be a few abstracts that are being submitted for ASH around BELEODAQ. The data around the GCSF product and Captisol-enabled Melphalan, we will be submitting abstracts for the appropriate meetings early next year.

Excellent. Thank you guys very much and congratulations.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. I'm showing no further questions at this time, I would now like to turn it back to Dr. Raj for any closing remarks.

So in closing, we would like to thank you again for joining us on this call this afternoon and your continued interest in the Spectrum. Today, we have an exciting pipeline, a robust cash position and a strong management team. And we are very well positioned to grow meaningfully going forward. We are looking forward to a great future for the Spectrum and continuing our mission to meet the needs of cancer patients. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.