Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director-Corporate Finance & Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President and Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Christina and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Group's Q1 Analyst Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Wojtek Nowak, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Finance. You may begin your conference.

Thank you, Christina. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the three months ended March 31, 2017, which were shared in the news release we distributed yesterday.

I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information. This information is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to our most recent Management's Discussion and Analysis and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR.

Our remarks also include references to non-GAAP financial measures, which are explained and reconciled in our MD&A. I would also like to remind everyone that all figures are being quoted in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible there following the call.

Lastly, please note that, during this call we will be referring to a Supplementary Conference Call Presentation posted on our website. If you haven't already accessed it, it will be a useful tool to help you follow along during the call. You can find the presentation in the Investor Information section of triconcapital.com under Events & Presentations.

With that, I will turn the call over to Wissam Francis, CFO of Tricon Capital Group.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. Our prepared remarks this morning will include highlights of our quarterly results and a discussion of our various investment verticals.

Starting on slide 5, Tricon continued to deliver strong growth in the first quarter of 2017, with assets under management increasing by 9% year-over-year to $3 billion. During the quarter, assets under management increased by $52 million driven by a new separate account investment at Tricon Housing Partners called THP US SP2, with a total commitment of approximately $29 million. Net investment of approximately $22 million in new and existing homes at Tricon American Homes as well as fair value gain of approximately $10 million resulting from strong home price appreciation of 1.3% during the quarter.

Continued investment in advancing the existing U.S. and Canadian projects with Tricon Luxury Residences and ongoing capital investment at Tricon Lifestyle Communities to enhance the value of its existing parks. The overall growth in AUM was partially offset by distributions from maturing investments with Tricon Housing Partners.

The other big news subsequent to the quarter was the completion of the Silver Bay acquisition, bringing our assets under management to approximately $4.5 billion or CAD 6.1 billion.

Before we discuss the various verticals, let me walk you through our financial results. Turning to slide 6, on an IFRS basis, we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.07 compared to $0.11 last year. There are two important points of variance here I would like to highlight. First, Tricon American Homes incurred $3.1 million of one-time transaction cost related to the Silver Bay acquisition, which reduces investment income as these costs are expensed.

Second, we had a $4.2 million loss related to the change in the value of the conversion option in our convertible debentures. This change was driven by a strong 15% increase in Tricon's share price during the quarter. In other words, as our stock price strengthens, the liability of our derivative increases, thus, resulting in a loss. These two items represent approximately $0.07 of negative impact on our reported EPS. We also present the adjusted income metrics that you see on slide 7, which remove the transaction cost and change in the fair value of derivative as well as other non-recurring and non-cash items.

On an adjusted basis, we reported basics earnings per share of $0.14 and diluted earnings per share of $0.13, which is essentially consistent with last year's results. If we dig into the drivers of these results, you can see at the bottom of slide 7 that our adjusted EBITDA increased by 10% year-over-year to $29.4 million, reflecting the underlying growth in our operations.

The key contributing factors included: first, a very strong quarter at Tricon American Homes, which included a 33% increase in core FFO, mainly driven by a higher occupancy rate and NOI margin as well as strong rent growth; second, solid growth in investment income at TLC as our results included a full quarter with all 14 parks as compared to 10 parks last year and reflects some of the value-enhancement activities underway across all parks; third, consistent results on Tricon Luxury Residences and stable fee revenue from Private Funds and Advisory as compared to last year; and fourth, lower investment income at Tricon Housing Partners compared to last year driven by meaningful cash distributions to investors in 2016, which reduced the invested capital balance.

While we experienced solid growth in adjusted EBITDA, you can see that, as we bridge from adjusted net income to adjusted EBITDA, we incurred higher interest expense year-over-year. The adjusted interest expense presented here captured interest expense across all of our investment verticals and mainly reflects the larger portfolio of homes at TAH and new parks at TLC, which were partially financed with debt. More importantly, it includes the impact of a new securitization transaction completed by TAH in October, which increased the amount of debt at Tricon American Homes but allowed us to lock-in financing for five years and an attractive fixed rate of 3.59% and repatriated approximately $60 million of equity to Tricon for further investments.

We expect this increase in interest expense and the shift towards fixed rate financing to result in stronger net income gains in future periods as the effect of rising rents and occupancy in our rental verticals flows directly to the bottom line.

To wrap-up our financial overview, I would like to touch on our balance sheet and liquidity on slide 8. We have two key sources of liquidity I would like to highlight. First is our expected cash flow from Tricon Housing Partners. During the quarter, THP distributed $16.4 million of cash to Tricon, well above its reported investment income. If we look at THP vertical in aggregate, we expect approximately $511 million of net distributions to Tricon over the next 8 years to 10 years.

To give some context, we expect about $130 million to come from THP1 US over the next two years. The majority of the remaining cash flows are expected to come from Trinity Falls and other separate accounts, which are long-dated master planned community investments that are expected to generate fairly consistent cash flows over the next 10 years.

Second is our corporate revolving credit facility. We paid off the facility in full with the proceeds of a convertible debenture offering in March and subsequently drew about $140 million on May 9 to partially fund the Silver Bay acquisition. The balance of the acquisition was funded using $142 million of net proceeds from the subscription receipt offering and $1.2 billion coming from the new warehouse credit facility at TAH. As of today, we have approximately $225 million of available capacity on our corporate credit facility as we had upsized the facility to $365 million upon closing the acquisition.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Gary to provide additional insight into our business verticals.

Thanks, Wissam. This is a very exciting quarter for us with several operational and strategic milestones, I'd like to highlight. But before I delve into the specific investment verticals, I would like to speak to request to simplify our business and generate more predictable cash flows thereby making Tricon easier to understand and value for investors.

If you remember, our first initiative was to revamp our MD&A in Q3 2016 to minimize the adjustments between IFRS and adjusted earning metrics and to provide more transparency to our investments' underlying operating performance with new disclosures and industry-specific metrics such as FFO for the REIT-like verticals.

In Q1, we've taken an additional step with the introduction of same-home metrics, which facilitate comparisons across periods. Next, we set out to simplify our business model by focusing on our growth strategy on housing business where we can build scale and obtain a leadership position. The acquisition of Silver Bay is a meaningful catalyst in this regard as it strengthens TAH position as a leader in single-family rental focused on the middle market.

When we announced the Silver Bay acquisition back in February, we also announced our intention to exit businesses where we cannot gain adequate scale on attractive terms namely the manufactured housing/land lease business and the U.S. multi-family development business. Our focus, going forward, will be on land and homebuildings, single-family rental and Canadian multi-family rental development, three complementary housing verticals where we believe we can achieve scale, leadership and operational excellence.

Let's dive into the first of these businesses, Tricon Housing Partners, our land and homebuilding vertical on slide 10. THP generated an investment income of $5.7 million against outstanding invested capital of $241.5 million. This represents a 9.4% annualized net return on invested capital, which is in line with our expectation of 9% to 11% for the full year. Keep in mind that the first three quarters of the year are typically lower than Q4 because of year-end appraisals and separate accounts.

The year-over-year reduction in investment income is attributable to the following. First, investment income from THP1 US decreased as significant [ph] additions (10:37) were made during the past 12 months, which reduced the outstanding investment balance. Also, last year's result was exceptionally strong benefiting from several THP1 US catalysts, including the close of the Faria Preserve land sale and accelerated cash flows from the San Francisco portfolio.

Second, in THP3 Canada higher-than-anticipated construction cost and an increase in non-saleable square footage at the River Park Place condominium project in Richmond, BC led to a negative budget revision. Escalating cost from industry-wide phenomenon in the Greater Vancouver area given the strength of the local housing market have unfortunately negated higher [ph] condo (11:13) prices at this project. Third, we saw an offsetting benefit from Trinity Falls, which is a new and meaningful principal investment for THP, which we entered into mid-2016.

With this maturing commingled funds in harvest mode, THP continues to recycle a portion of its capital into new investments. Trinity Falls looks to be a successful investment in this regard with an attractive underwritten IRR of 18%. And this quarter THP formed another separate investment account called THP US SP2 with a total commitment of $28.8 million. This new separate account is comprised of a single investment, Queen Creek and [ph] Signal View (11:50), a 320-acre parcel of land located approximately 1.5 miles east of THP's existing Queen Creek & Ellsworth investment within THP US SP1. Queen Creek is a high-growth bedroom community in Phoenix's Southeast Valley, which is rapidly attracting young families because of the full build-out of the inner suburbs of Mesa, Chandler and Gilbert.

The business plan involves the entitlement and sale of 852 lots and two commercial parcels in multiple phases over the next three years to four years. The investment was made in partnership with an existing third-party investor who committed 80% of the capital with Tricon committing the remaining 20%. The project will be developed by Tricon's long-time land development partner in Phoenix, Community South West or CSW.

On slide 11 we turn our attention to Tricon American Homes, our single-family rental business, which effectively complement our higher return but lumpier cash flow land and homebuilding business. TAH delivered excellent operating results this quarter to core FFO of $5.7 million representing a 33% increase from the prior year. Let me share with you some of the operational highlights.

TAH's net operating income increased by 29% year-over-year. This was driven by 26% revenue growth, which was a function of a 7.2% increase in occupancy to 95.6% and strong rental growth averaging 5% for the past four quarters. The number of rental homes was relatively stable year-over-year as TAH pauses acquisition program mid-2016 to allocate capital to the buyout of its minority interest partners and, subsequently, to prepare for the acquisition of Silver Bay. TAH also continue to optimize the quality of its portfolio by pruning non-core homes.

On the expense side, TAH is focusing its attention on controllable expenses such as repairs and maintenance and turnover costs, which have been stabilizing as TAH internalizes its [ph] R&M (13:38) function. TAH is now 60% through the maintenance internalization process and should be complete by the end of the year.

Turnover cost also benefited from an annualized turnover rate of 25.6%, which is 1.2% lower than last year and the lowest amongst the industry peers. We believe this metric speaks to TAH's customer-centric approach, which keeps tenants in their homes for longer as well as our middle market strategy, which focuses on residents with the propensity for longer term rentership and should generate very stable income. These positive trends in revenue growth and expense containment translated into an NOI margin of 61.6%, up 160 basis points from the prior year.

Notwithstanding TAH's strong margin this quarter, this is a seasonal business and we expect the NOI margin to dip in the hot summer months as repairs and maintenance costs move up. As a result, we remain comfortable for our full-year target NOI margin of 60%, although, if we have a bias, it would be to a slightly higher margin.

Turning to slide 12. We are pleased to introduce same-home portfolio metrics for TAH. The same home portfolio includes 4,466 rental homes that have been stabilized for at least 90 days to the start of the comparable period of last year. For example, the same-home portfolio for Q1 2017 is based on homes that were stabilized by the end of Q3 2015.

Our same-home portfolio produced NOI growth of 12.9% year-over-year driven largely by rent growth of 5.6%, occupancy of 96.7%, higher fee revenue and lower delinquencies. Annualized turnover, on a same-home basis, was 25.4% for the quarter compared to 28.1% the prior year, which served as a major catalyst for expense savings.

The same-store metrics for TAH provide a glimpse of what is achievable for our entire portfolio on a stabilized basis and highlight how compelling the economics are for single-family rental business as we benefit from what feels like insatiable demand for institutional quality rental product while, at the same time, containing expenses through ongoing process improvements.

Moving on to slide 13. Let's talk about the acquisition of Silver Bay, which closed on Tuesday. The combination of Tricon American Homes and Silver Bay creates the fourth largest publicly-owned company in the single-family rental industry with approximately 16,800 homes concentrated in high-growth U.S. Sun Belt markets and perhaps, more importantly, a leading platform focused on the middle market segment targeting rent between $1,000 and $1,600 per month.

The combination of two geographically complementary single-family rental portfolios is expected to unlock meaningful operating benefits and efficiencies. This is a scale business. So, by more than doubling our SFR portfolio, we expect to realize substantial synergies including an improvement in Silver Bay's operating margin and significant G&A savings by executing our integration strategy.

We expect to bring Silver Bay's NOI margin up to 60% as compared to 58% achieved for the full year of 2016, and we've outlined approximately $10 million of G&A savings from the combination, which is largely a function of eliminating redundant corporate level and public company costs. We expect these synergies to be fully realized through the end of 2018.

Lastly, by combining a strong FFO profile with ongoing home price appreciation and operational synergies, we expect this acquisition to result in meaningful accretion to EPS and NAV per share for Tricon.

For the past two months, TAH operating team has been focused on the seamless integration of the two portfolios. Of note, the technology and accounting teams have mapped a smooth transition of data from Silver Bay's platforms to TAH's largely aided by the use of Yardi as the operating backbone for both companies.

The facilities team spent time reviewing all office locations and an overlapping market selected the office best suited for the go-forward business. We've also engaged leasing brokers to assist in the disposition of any excess field office space, and TAH will be hiring approximately 60 people in field officers from Silver Bay. We've also engaged Silver Bay's current management and back office personnel on transitionary consulting contracts ranging from one month to six months.

I would also like to update everyone on our deleveraging plans over the coming quarters summarized on slide 14. The acquisition of Silver Bay was a levered transaction, which we will accomplish using a flexible balance sheet structure across our investment verticals. Our overall strategy is to take on higher leverage within our stable rental income verticals such as TAH and TLC and offset this with minimal leverage at THP, our land and homebuilding business, and blend to an overall look-through leverage target of 50% to 55% for the company as a whole.

Within the TAH vertical, the acquisition takes leverage from 59% net debt to assets in Q1 to approximately 70%. However, the next two years to three years, we estimate that we will generate approximately $400 million to $500 million of gross cash flow from the sale of non-core homes, operating cash flow from THP and disposition of our non-core businesses, which will give us the ability to bring TAH leverage and our overall corporate leverage back in line with historical levels.

As we simplify our business model, one of the businesses we plan to exit is Tricon Lifestyle Communities, which is profiled on slide 15. We remain focused on operational improvements at TLC in preparation for an eventual sale, and Q1 provides a good snapshot of the complete portfolio with all 14 parks contributing a full-quarter financial results.

Core FFO for the quarter was $1.1 million compared to $0.7 million last year, a 54% increase year-over-year. The increase was mainly driven by the additional four parks acquired since the first quarter of last year.

The strong occupancy figured of 82.4%, compared to 75.6% a year ago, was also driven by a change in the mix of parks as the California parks had higher going-in occupancy as well as the ongoing home sales program at the Phoenix parks.

As we prepared to exit the vertical, our focus is now on completing the capital enhancement programs of the existing parks, which would translate into rental growth and higher occupancy.

On slide 16, you can see the six parks have completed their capital expenditure programs, and the remaining eight parks are in various stages of their enhancement programs, which should be completed over the next several months.

To provide you with some color on the sale process, since we announced our attention to exit the TLC vertical, we have received a tremendous level of interest in the portfolio. The number of inbound calls highlights just how competitive the manufactured housing space has become and how difficult it is to gain scale. We're actively engaged with potential buyers and plan to run a broker process later this year with the intention of realizing a value that is greater than what we are currently carrying on our balance sheet.

Moving on to Tricon Luxury Residences. We continue to advance on the three Canadian and two U.S. projects that currently are under development. On slide 17, you can see the progress of the three projects that are under construction. The Maxwell and the McKenzie, which you see here, constitute our on balance sheet TLR U.S. investments. We expect to exit these investments once the buildings are stabilized in late 2018 to early 2019.

We remain committed to our Canadian multi-family strategy where we see growth opportunities driven by strong underlying population growth, a lack of Class A rental product and the increasingly unaffordable for-sale housing market, particularly in Toronto and Vancouver. TLR Canada's most recent acquisition, Scrivener Square located in Rosedale/Summerhill, remains in the preliminary design and rezoning process. The formal rezoning submission is scheduled to occur in the second quarter of 2017 at which point we look forward to sharing with everyone the preliminary design.

While on the topic of multi-family rental, I would like to briefly touch upon the recently announced Ontario Fair Housing Plan, which proposes to introduce rent control for all private rental units in Ontario, including those built after 1991 amongst other initiatives. While there should be no impact to our underwritten development yield on TLR's existing Canadian projects, we would expect net IRRs over a [ph] 10-year hold (21:39) period to decline modestly by about 100 basis points from approximately 12% to approximately 11%. Remember, when we include development fees, asset management fees and, potentially, performance fees, we are able to generate higher returns at Tricon.

The financial impact of rent control may be mitigated by development charge rebate program and property tax equalization program. However, it is too early to fully assess the impact of these programs. Also, any negative impact to the viability of the condominium developments, including limiting investor demands [ph] who were cracked down on the signing clauses (22:14) or paper flipping may lessen competition for development sites and provide purpose for rental developers with a relative advantage in securing opportunities.

It will take time to fully assess the details of the many measures proposed in the Ontario Fair Housing Plan during which TLR will continue to monitor market activity closely and prudently consider new opportunities. There is no impact to the current pipeline and TLR remains focused on adding two new projects in Toronto and expanding this vertical as a key component of Tricon's growth strategy.

Lastly, I would like to speak to our Private Funds and Advisory business on slide 18. PF&A generated $5.7 million of revenue in Q1, consistent with Q1 of last year. Within this figure we saw a decrease in asset management fees, as our legacy funds continue to mature and distribute capital.

This is all set by a 34% increase in fees from our Johnson development business driven by an 83% increase in lot sales to homebuilders coupled with the shift in the product mix. The growth in lot sales was underpinned by a 68% increase in third-party home sales to end customers at Johnson-managed communities.

These results speak to the strength of the Johnson brand as well as the general rebound we are seeing in the Houston market as oil prices stabilize and confidence returns to the market. For example, Cross Creek Ranch, which is a Jonson-managed community and a THP principal investment located near Houston's Energy Corridor, recorded a 43% increase in home sales compared to Q1 of last year.

Another contributing factor to Johnson's result is the flexibility of its business model, which allows the lot mix to be adjusted to current market conditions. For example, Johnson has been shifting its product mix towards smaller lots to enable builders to produce more affordable homes and to appeal to the millennial cohort who are beginning to form families and move to the suburbs. It's interesting to note that even through more challenging times in Houston in 2015 and 2016, Johnson community significantly outperformed the overall market. You can see this in slide 19 where we compared home sales in Johnson communities to the overall new home sale market in Houston.

On a trailing 12-month basis home sales at Johnson's Houston-based communities are up 2% since Q4 2015 while overall new home sales in Houston are down 5% implying that Johnson's market share is growing from 9.5% to 10.2% over the past five quarters. We attribute the relative strength of Johnson's sales to its vibrant and well-amenitized communities and strong builder programs, which tend to attract buyers even in a softer market.

In fact, our research and experience have shown us that master planned communities gain market share in the downturn as home buyers opt for the relative security of an establish community vis-à-vis a one-off subdivision or a housing project. The so-called flight to quality makes master planned communities substantially more defensive than typical land and housing projects.

To wrap up, I'd like to take a moment to summarize our growth plans. We've had a very active start to the year and have significantly increased the size of our company with the acquisition of Silver Bay. We will take the coming month to digest this acquisition focusing on achieving synergies we have outlined and reduce that at TAH through a combination of non-core asset sales and operating cash flows. You should expect TAH to focus on operational improvements over the near-term and to resume its normal course acquisition program in 2018.

At THP our focus is on generating cash from existing projects and harvesting in a relatively strong market. With that being said, we will look to selectively add MPCs and smaller land and homebuilding investments in partnership with third-party investors if that opportunities present themselves.

In TLR Canada, we are looking to add two projects per year also in conjunction with third-party investors as we see compelling opportunities to build scale in this vertical and have the internal capabilities to create a leading Class A multi-family platform in Toronto. Lastly, we will work towards an orderly exit of TLR US and TLC both of which consist of attractive assets that we expect to garner significant buyer interest and, ultimately, generate strong investment returns for our shareholders. These initiatives taken together will make Tricon a larger but simpler organization with a significant [ph] base (26:17) of recurring revenues and a highly integrated operating platform across all core verticals and will position us well for the next phase of growth.

With that, I will pass the call back to the operator to take questions, and we'll be joined by other members of our senior management team including Jonathan Ellenzweig, Craig Mode, Andrew Joyner and Kevin Baldridge. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Jonathan Kelcher from TD Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning and congrats on getting the SBY deal done.

Thank you, Jon. Good morning.

First question, just I guess on paying down the warehouse facility, how many securitizations do you think you will do and when do you think those will begin?

Yeah. Our expectation at this point is we would do two or three, so anywhere from the kind of $300 million to $500 million range per deal. We do the first deal towards the end of this year and the second deal would be, let's say, mid-2018.

Okay. And in the past you've done the BPO reports in order to do those, and you've had elevated home price appreciation in the quarters where you've done that. Is there any reason to think it'd be different for when you do the SBY portfolio?

We think there's a good amount of embedded home price appreciation in the Silver Bay portfolio. We don't know exactly what it's going to be, but we've done a smattering of appraisals and that would give us an indication that is positive. But until we actually run the BPOs, we don't know for sure. But our view point I think on the whole, Jon, would be very positive.

Okay. Would you if, I guess, ask you in another way, if you look at the consensus NAV of SBY, were you guys pretty comfortable with what that was?

Yes. Yeah, we were.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Yeah.

Your next question comes from Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. I just wanted to go back to the NOI margin from Q1. I know you've talked about with the Silver Bay transaction as well as in general targeting that 60%. But given the reasons that you've got the margin up to what it is, was it more seasonality? Is there potential for sustainability here or, at the very least, if there's more of a positive bias towards where your NOI margin can go?

Well, I mean, there's definitely some seasonality always in this business and certainly in Q1. And we're just cautioning because, obviously, in the hot summer months you can see some pressure on your margins with higher HVAC expenses. So, we just want to be careful there. But I think, Geoff, we certainly have a bias I think at this point through higher margin. We're seeing very good rent growth, and that's because I think there's a bit of loss to lease in the portfolio , and we're also seeing a very strong economy. And I think that combined with the expense containment and the continued roll out, the internalization and maintenance all bode well. So, again, we have I think a positive bias, but we're just trying to be cautious on the guidance.

Okay. And just my second question on the deal pipeline at THP. I know you talked about some of the stuff going on. Maybe a little bit more specifically, are there some geographies or housing types that you're finding some value in or some opportunities? And from slide 8 of the presentation, you kind of flagged in terms of got good dollars that work in Trinity Falls and the separate accounts, but those sort of look like they're going to be longer kind of cash-linked type projects. So, is there a bit more of a bias towards shorter to medium term type duration investments?

Well, I think in terms of immediate cash flow generation we're going to see a lot obviously from the comingled funds that are rolling off. So, that would certainly be THP1 US, THP2 US. So, we expect to be – that those should be more front-ended I think over the next, call it, two years to three years. And then Trinity Falls and the other separate accounts, which are largely MPCs, the cash flow should be more spread over I would say the next 10 years.

In terms of new deal opportunities, we're trying to be very selective. The focus continues to be more on land just as we did this new separate account. There's a number of MPCs we are looking at. We would like to expand Johnson's footprint beyond Houston and Dallas. They do have a master planned in Atlanta, but we'd love to one day, for example, be in Austin or one or two other markets in it. It really just comes down to what opportunities there are. But if the right ones come up at returns that make sense we'll definitely strike.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Dean Wilkinson from CIBC World Markets. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Dean.

Hey Gary, so you're going to spend the next couple of quarters on the Silver Bay integration. Do you think there is perhaps a little bit of lumpiness that might flow through the G&A as you trim some things out and perhaps some charge-offs and stuff like that, that we could expect?

Yeah. I think that's a fair assumption. Again, that's why we've been cautioning that on the synergies, for example, certainly related to G&A, and we've been predicting $10 million of, let's say, $15 million to SBY will only really fully be achieved by the end of 2018. So, you should expect a little bit of lumpiness.

Some lumpiness over the next couple of quarters, so we should be really looking for it.

Yeah.

Okay. That totally makes sense. And then just as we look at the Private Funds and Advisory business and you've probably arguably hit scale or close to it on the single-family rental and getting out of the others. How should we think about AUM growth and sort of picking up other third-party mandates in that business going forward, sort of where your targets around that?

Well, yeah, I mean, I think we're definitely had scale in that business at roughly $1.4 billion of AUM. We're one of the leaders in the sector. I think you should probably expect us to maintain that AUM or even let it drop a little bit as some of the early investments roll off. It really depends on what new opportunities we see. And I would say there's shouldn't be a focus on growth for growth's sake, certainly not sector. It is cyclical and we need to be careful about when we take on new investments and make sure we're underwriting them properly. So, I expect it, in the short-term, Dean, to be fairly stable.

Stable. Okay. And then just maybe – I don't want to put Wissam on the spot, but I'm going to anyway. The 2020 converts, those are callable at [ph] 980, (33:17) is that correct, Wissam?

That is correct, but there's a mechanic and a test that has to be met, which includes our share price has to be over the $12.25 range.

It has to be over $12.25.

Correct.

Okay. So, you'll probably get there maybe sooner than we think. At that point would you consider calling those in?

At that point it's just a debate. We really don't – we want to make sure we're not flooding the market with a lot of our shares outstanding at the same time but becomes a question of dividend versus interest expense.

Fair enough. Good. Okay.

Dean, one thing I would say. I mean, when we force converted the first debentures, it did add pressure to the stock I think unnecessarily...

Yeah.

... so I think that's something we'll think about again when we get to that point.

Totally makes sense. Perfect. I will hand it back. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Stephen MacLeod from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Hey, Steve.

I just wanted to follow-up on the THP cash distributions that are coming in. You talked about I guess THP1 you are sort of weighted for the next two years and then the Trinity Falls on separate accounts are more evenly spread. Do you expect to deploy the vast majority of that cash coming in into other separate accounts and those MPC communities that you're talking about?

We actually are looking – we obviously continue to look for growth. However, we have a deleveraging strategy that we're focused on right now. So, we're looking to take that excess proceeds and reduce our debt leverage back to consistent level between 50% and 55% on a look-through basis.

Okay. So, you – I guess, we wouldn't expect – you said there are a number of MPCs that you're looking at. Would those just be funded as on an as-needed basis if the opportunities are compelling? Is that the way to think about it?

Yeah and also with third-party capital, right? So, that's what we'd be looking to do. I mean, we're trying to strike the balance. I mean, Trinity Falls doesn't – it's solely on our balance sheet. But we've done that, we think it's a great investment and we're trying to maintain a relative counterweight to TAH as that business grows. But certainly if there was a lot more opportunity and we could see MPCs that really made sense, the idea would be to bring in third-party capital and grow that way. So, I think it's efficient and I think the same thing would apply for TLR in Canada where we're looking to grow there. We're looking to largely do that with third-party capital as well.

Okay. Okay, that's great. And then on the TLR Canada you talked about adding two new projects annually over the foreseeable future. Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the environment in terms of demand and the economics of – supportive economics for that business?

Well, the demand is incredibly strong. I mean, certainly, in Toronto, I mean, there's – the affordability crisis just continues, and no matter what metric you look at, they're all pointing in the right direction. I think, if anything, since we got into this strategy the fundamentals have only moved in our favor. Certainly, we're seeing rent increases of roughly 10%. There's next to no vacancy, so the market is incredibly strong.

Now, I will say that, with the new proposed legislation on the Ontario Fair Housing Plan, that will have a bit of a negative impact on our long-term returns with rent control and then we'll see what ultimately happens there. But it doesn't change our attitude towards the business. I mean, I think everyone agrees, including the government, that the real solution for the affordability crisis is more purpose-built rental. So, it's a bit of oxymoron on the way they've gone about it. But I would say, at the end of the day, that's the goal and I think we're positioned in the right business.

Okay. That's great. And then just finally if I could, on the Silver Bay, I mean, obviously it's only closed, well, two days ago, but you have been working on the integration. Anything that you found either surprising to the upside or the downside once you've sort of gotten closer to the portfolio?

Jon, you want to talk about that?

Sure. And I would say, at this point in time, nothing dramatically, so we actually [ph] had to stay on that. (37:44) I think, as Gary talked about, the technology conversion has gone very smoothly, largely aided by the diligence we did before closing and the fact that we all use a similar Yardi backbone or technology platform. So, I would say it's early to tell whether there's been anything major to our benefit, but we haven't seen anything to downside thus far.

Okay, that's great. Thanks, guys.

Your next question comes from Jimmy Shan from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Hi. So, on the same-home NOI growth, obviously 13% is a big number and perhaps helped by that lower churn that we saw this quarter. How should we think about how that number might trend for the balance of the year?

I mean, Jimmy, 13% is a fantastic print. It's higher than we thought it would be. I don't know if that's long-term. Probably not long-term sustainable, but I think we continue to have very good results throughout the year. As we said before, I still think there's a bit of loss to lease in the portfolio. We certainly think there's a loss to lease in the Silver Bay portfolio, which will ultimately creep into our same-store. And we continue to implement process improvements. The internationalization and maintenance seems to really be helping. And we've seen that – we seen – you can see that as [ph] R&M (39:10) as the percentage of revenues are coming down. So, I think, we feel good about it, but I wouldn't necessarily guide to 13%, that's a very good number.

Right. Would it be fair to say that the 4,500 somewhat homes that are in that same asset pool that perhaps that may be weighted towards some of your strongest markets? I'm thinking some of the West Coast markets that you start out with. And maybe as more assets get into the pool that that just naturally would slow the growth down on a year-over-year basis. Would that be a fair way to think about it?

I mean, the same-store portfolio is 60%, right, of our total portfolio in Q1. It's certainly does include some of the very strong I would say Nevada and Northern California markets. So, maybe slightly, Jimmy, but I don't think it will be dramatic. I mean, we're really seeing – we're seeing strong growth across the board. I mean, even in the market like Houston, last year, we were seeing, which was a softer market and a lot of our homes were exposed to the Energy Corridor there, we're seeing rent growth of 3% plus. So, it's pretty strong across the board.

Okay. And then just on the asset sale that you're contemplating from the Silver Bay portfolio. Can you talk about sort of how many homes are you thinking about, what's the approach you'd likely to go with the portfolio sale or maybe just selling individual homes on the MLS, and sort of what's the expectation that we should have in terms of dollar amount?

So, we are – we've identified roughly 1,300 homes that we want to dispose. Those tend to be homes that maybe geographic outliers or have lower rents, let's say, below $900 to $1,000. We're also potentially going to exit the portfolios in Tucson, Arizona and Columbus, Ohio. And we would anticipate, it would take us roughly 18 months to do all of that, and it'd probably be through a combination of, I would say national buyers or portfolio sales and [ph] 1G, 2G (41:27) sales.

And just add to that, Jimmy, we're expecting about $150 million of cash to be generated from the disposition of 1,300 homes.

Okay. Okay. That's great, guys. Thanks.

Great. Thanks, Jimmy.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, Christine. I would like to thank all of you on this call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in August when we discuss the results for the second quarter of 2017.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.