Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director-Corporate Finance, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Sally, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Group Q4 Analyst Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I will now turn the conference over to Mr. Wojtek Nowak. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Sally. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2015, which we shared in the news release we distributed yesterday.

Before I turn the call over to Gary Berman, Tricon's President and CEO, I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information about future events and the performance of our business. The information, by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our most recent Management's Discussion and Analysis, and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR. I will also remind you that all figures are being quoted in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated.

Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible until March 17, 2016.

With that, I will turn the call over to Gary Berman.

Thank you, Wojtek. 2015 was another strong year for Tricon, with meaningful growth in our business. Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 was $109 million, nearly C$140 million and AUM reached $2.7 billion or C$3.7 billion. Tricon's strong performance was largely determined by our decision to avoid a slowing Canadian economy and invest nearly a 100% of our balance sheet in the U.S. housing market. Supported by an accommodative monetary policy, U.S. economy has made considerable progress in recent years and has now replaced all jobs lost since the great recession and generated GDP growth that may not be as remarkable as previous recoveries, but is certainly impressive relative to other beleaguered Western economies.

On U.S. housing front, numerous key industry metrics hit cycle highs, providing the underpinning for solid performance and continued growth in our various business lines. U.S. existing home prices eclipsed the previous peak levels achieved in 2006, reversing the negative equity affect that had many Americans trapped in their homes and providing a strong psychological impetus for additional buying. Not surprisingly, a strong secondary market made new housing look increasingly compelling.

Single-family starts grew 10% in 2015, reaching the highest levels since 2008, but still remain well below the long-term mean. With job growth and rising incomes, the single-family rental, multi-family and manufactured housing industries were able to increase occupancy rates across the board and pass on rent increases in excess of 3% to tenants.

While there're bound to be gyrations from time to time and interrupt economic progress, we believe that the severity of the 2008 to 2010 housing crash, coupled with strong demographic factors will enable U.S. housing market to sustain a relatively long up-cycle, which in turn should enable Tricon to generate good returns from in-place investments for years to come.

With that being said we've consciously set out to build the company to withstand cycles so that we can take advantages of superior investment opportunities when a downturn emerges. We continue [ph] the strong (3:44) leverage in U.S. land investments and believe that our investments in single-family rental and manufactured housing businesses will perform relatively well in a weaker market as they provide essential affordable housing.

The Canadian for-sale housing market still looks fully valued, but hasn't sufficiently corrected even in Alberta to warrant a reconsideration of our capital allocation policy. At the current time, we believe that the best housing related investment opportunities in Canada are in building Class A rental apartments in Toronto and potentially Vancouver, given the growth in rent levels for core properties and declining housing affordability caused by elevated home prices. With the recent establishment of Tricon Luxury Residences investment vertical, we intend to work with Canadian institutions to build the leading Class A apartment portfolio in Canada.

Within our organization, 2015 also marked a period of new senior leadership, with me succeeding Tricon's co-founder, David Berman, as CEO and Wissam Francis replacing June Alikhan as the company's CFO. We're pleased to report that this succession has been seamless and that the senior management is well positioned to lead the company on the exciting growth path that David initiated. We would like to take this opportunity to thank our board, management team, our employees who worked tirelessly, our shareholders, limited partners and the investment community at large for their continuing support.

Tricon has achieved remarkable growth since going public in 2010, including 17% compounded annual growth in book value per share or 22% if we view the change in Canadian dollar terms. None of this would be possible without a concentrated team effort and the conviction of our most dedicated shareholders.

I will now turn the call over to our CFO, Wissam Francis for a review of our financial performance.

Thank you, Gary and good morning, everyone. As Gary mentioned, we had a strong year with a solid quarter, with all investment verticals contributing to our success. Let me recap some key highlights from our financials. As a reminder please note that our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, and 2014 results have been converted from Canadian dollars. As such the financial results may not be comparable across both years and we have presented adjusted financial information in the MD&A on more comparable basis.

Let me begin. Our assets under management increased by $479 million or 22% to $2.7 billion as at December 31, 2015 compared to $2.2 billion as at December 31, 2014. Since Q3 AUM increased by 5%, primarily as a result of the $56 million commitment to TLR US and continued expansion of our rental home portfolio under TAH.

Tricon Housing Partners, our land and home building investment vertical, generated $67.6 million of cash distributions in 2015, as investments were realized. These cash distributions contributed to a lower investment balance and lower investment income with $26.7 million in 2015 compared to $46.7 million in 2014.

The decrease in investment income was also driven by lower valuation gains on investments compared to the prior year, when various projects attained significant development milestones that positively affected their valuations. These decreases were partially offset by investment income generated by newly added separate accounts and side-cars.

In 2015, Tricon received $60 million of cash distributions from our co-investment in THP1 U.S. Since acquiring a 68.4% interest in THP1 U.S. for $261 million in August 2013, Tricon has received approximately $132 million of free cash flow from the fund and in the next three years we expect to receive approximately $250 million of distributions. On the exchange rate alone, we've made approximately $100 million on this investment, which was completed when the Canadian dollar was closer to par.

Turning to Tricon American Homes, investment income increased by 79% to $30.6 million in 2015, from $17.1 million in 2014. Growth in the number of homes and improvements in operations, were the primary drivers of this increase. The total portfolio at the end of 2015 was approximately 7,200 homes compared to approximately 5,000 homes a year ago, a 43% increase.

In-place occupancy increased to 88% versus 84% last year and rents grew by 3.1%. This growth in number of homes, increased occupancy and growth in the rents contributed to a 62% year-over-year increase in rental revenue at Tricon American Homes. Operating margin decreased to 60% in 2015 compared to 63% in 2014. The decrease was primarily attributed to a 250 basis point increase in property taxes as a percentage of rental revenue. As a result – as a direct result of owning more homes in jurisdictions with higher property taxes such as Texas.

The other major contributing factor was an increase in repairs and maintenance cost of 160 basis points as a percentage of revenue, in line with management's long-term underwriting and expectations for the portfolio. These increases were partially offset by a 50 basis point decline in insurance cost as a percentage of revenue, resulting from a change in mix of homes away from those which require incremental insurance for earthquake or windstorms. On a go forward basis and a same store basis, we expect our operating margins to be 60%.

Lastly, as a result of home price depreciation in the markets where we own single-family rental homes, Tricom American Homes reported a fair value gain of $51.9 million in 2015. Our portfolio appreciated by $7.4 million during Q4, which represented a 1.4% gain over Q3 2015.

Moving on to Tricon Lifestyle Communities; this vertical contributed $2.3 million to investment income in 2015. Operating margin was 63% for 2015, 1% higher than last year. The increase in operating margin was attributed to a change in portfolio mix as the properties acquired in 2015 had relatively higher utility reimbursements as a percentage of gross rent.

Portfolio occupancy was 89% at the end of the year, also 1% higher than prior year. The higher occupancy is attributed to the addition of Skyhaven, formerly known as Apache MHP to the portfolio as well as operational improvements at Longhaven Estates.

In our Private Funds and Advisory business, contractual fees for 2015 decreased by 2% year-over-year to $23.9 million, as a result of lower invested capital in our private investment vehicle as distributions were made to investors. In addition we received higher one-time commitments in 2014.

In terms of corporate operating expenses, compensation expense increased by 23% or $3.8 million from last year to $20.5 million in 2015. The increase was largely related to expanding our team to support our four investment verticals for future growth. Approximately $1 million of the increase came from Johnson, due to the inclusion of a full year of salary and benefits in 2015 versus partial year inclusion in 2014. We expect total compensation expense to remain between $5 million to $6 million per quarter over the near term.

General and administration expense was $5.3 million in 2015, largely consistent with 2014, and is expected to remain near this level in the current year. Our adjusted EBITDA increased by $10.9 million or 11% to $108.8 million in 2015 compared to $97.9 million in 2014. The key contributing factors were Tricon American Homes' investment income and fair value adjustments as well as growth in Tricon Lifestyle Communities' investment income. This was offset by lower Tricon Housing Partners' investment income.

Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.56 in 2015 compared to $0.60 in 2014. The weighted average share count increased by 4%, mainly as a result of the public equity offering we completed in August 2015. This offering allowed us to raise money at an opportune time, before the recent period of market volatility and enhance our balance sheet for future growth. We deployed the proceeds by the end of the year on investments that we expect to be accretive to earnings per share over time. We continue to have strong liquidity with access to a credit facility of $235 million to deploy into growth initiatives within our various verticals.

As of December 31, 2015, $20 million was drawn from the credit facility. In addition, there is approximately $60 million of available room under the $300 million Tricon American Homes warehouse credit facility with opportunity to upsize as needed. I will now turn the call back to Gary, who will provide additional insight into our Principal Investment and our Private Funds and Advisory business.

Thank you, Wissam. In Tricon Housing Partners, our land and homebuilding investment vertical, we took advantage of the strongest U.S. housing market since the downturn, as well as a resilient Canadian housing market to monetize the considerable amount of land holdings in our various investment vehicles.

Over the course of 2015, the Private Investment vehicle sold 1,686 lots and 995 homes in multi-family units. As a result, our THP co-investments generated $67.6 million of free cash flow to Tricon in 2015. As we liquidated some of our positions purchased earlier in the cycle, we also took the opportunity to make some key investments, including Viridian, an existing 2,100 acre master-plan located in Arlington, Texas, home to Dallas Cowboys and Texas Rangers.

Viridian is an exceptional community in terms of its urban planning, architectural quality and amenities and is well positioned to be one of the leading U.S. master plans, in terms of home sales in 2016 and 2017, given the economic strength of the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. THP's strong overall performance was overshadowed by our decision not to raise a new U.S. commingled fund and instead to pursue a spin off and IPO of a dedicated land and home building vehicle called Tricon Investment Partners or TIP, which we were unable to execute because of adverse market conditions. At the time we thought the strength of the U.S. housing market would outweigh the late summer volatility in the Canadian public markets, but in hindsight that was obviously an incorrect decision as investors concluded differently. While [ph] it was dropped (14:17), TIP was unfortunate, there is no meaningful long-term impact on Tricon's businesses.

It may be more difficult for us to purse as many small land and home building investments without a dedicated investment vehicle, but the company's ability to make major investments such as Viridian through separate account investment vehicles remains intact. In fact, we've evaluated a number of large transactions over the past few months, but have remained disciplined in our underwriting and will execute only if our strict criteria are met. So in a way, it's back to business as usual at THP, as we will continue to search out the very best opportunities in land and home building and bring in third party investors when appropriate.

Turning to Tricon American Homes; this single family rental business has evolved from a short-term trade into an opportunity to create value through operational excellence. In this regard, TAH took meaningful steps in 2015 to position itself for long-term success, including completing the internalization of its property management function, lowering its cost of capital and bringing in new leadership with extensive relevant experience to help professionalize the business.

Tricon American Home's value proposition for single family residence is that they can move into a newly renovated home, outsource maintenance issues by calling a national call-in center and live in a desirable and established neighborhood for relatively affordable monthly rent. We believe this single family rental industry can do for families what the apartment industry has done for singles or couples by institutionalizing what until now has been largely a cottage industry, and by providing Americans with an attractive alternative to single family home ownership.

The advent of an asset-backed security market for single family rental is a game changer for the industry because it lowers the cost of capital for institutional quality participants, enables equity investors to earn higher levered returns, and perhaps more importantly brings single-family rental closer to other more established housing asset classes from a cost of capital perspective. In this regard, TAH achieved a significant milestone by closing on its first securitization in June 2015, raising $361 million from a 3,505 home trust, reducing its borrowing cost to LIBOR plus a 196 basis points and repatriating approximately $60 million of equity to Tricon.

Concurrently, TAH improved the terms of its credit facility, which acts as a warehouse facility for securitization of permanent debt, lowering the interest rate from LIBOR plus 360 to LIBOR plus 300 basis points. We are also excited to have Kevin Baldridge join as President of Tricon American Homes. Kevin was previously responsible for overseeing asset and property management in Irvine Apartment Communities, which owns a Class A portfolio of 50,000 multi-family units and brings a wealth of experience, professionalism and multi-family best practices to our business.

While investing in its operations and strengthening its team, TAH was able to significantly grow its portfolio, increase occupancy and grow our investment income. In 2015, TAH increased its portfolio by 43% year-over-year by acquiring 2,163 homes through a combination of bulk purchases and [ph] 1Gs and 2G (17:14) acquisitions or distressed sales, bringing the total home count to about 7,200 units by year-end.

With this continuous growth Tricon American Homes is now one of the top institutional owners and operators of single-family rental homes in the U.S. We see ample room to expand the portfolio given that the level of distressed sales in the U.S. even in a good year is double the size in the entire institutional single-family universe.

Within Tricon Lifestyle Communities by our own admission, the manufactured housing community acquisition program started slowly, but by January 2016, TLC had a amassed a considerable portfolio in Phoenix with 10 communities and nearly 2,500 residential pads. TLC acquired a combination of [ph] three and fours (17:55) for our manufactured housing and park model communities, geared towards the active adult or retirement market. The value-added investment strategy consistent with improving the park's infrastructure and amenities, upgrading the home quality where appropriate and rebranding the community in order to drive occupancy rent and over time improve its star classification.

TLC upgraded its first two parks in 2015, Longhaven and Skyhaven, and in short order was able to grow occupancy by 100 basis points and raise rents by 4% year-over-year. The additional scale in Phoenix will allow TLC to generate more home sales, spend more in marketing, strengthen the team and devote more attention to community programming. To provide some color on the recent acquisitions the three parks acquired in October are characterized as park models with average homes under 500 square feet and catering to a more affluent but seasonal retiree.

The five parks TLC acquired in January are all three-star rated MHCs with average gross rent of $379 dollars per pad per month, occupancy of 60% and operating margin of 54%. We see this portfolio as a significant value add opportunity to increase occupancy and rent over time and improve the star classification through upgrading the infrastructure and amenities, improving the home quality and rebranding the communities.

We've essentially doubled the TLC portfolio with this latest transaction and we're gaining momentum as we earn credibility with potential sellers. We're currently evaluating a deal pipeline of $100 million, which should help TLC double in size yet again.

2015 marked Tricon's formal entry into multi-family rental development investments through Tricon Luxury Residences, the fourth pillar of a diversified residential investment strategy. The longer term funnels for the multi-family asset class looks favorable given that one, for-sale housing has become increasingly unaffordable in core urban markets particularly in Canada; and two, the emergence of strong demographic trends driven by the large millennial cohort, who're forming families later and opting to live a flexible lifestyle longer as well as the baby boomers or the parents who are downsizing and looking to safer retirement. Tricon Luxury Residence is a [ph] built to core (19:57) investment strategy, that will construct Class A condo quality buildings and institute professional management with an active lifestyle programming component.

In the U.S., TLR entered into an joint venture with StreetLights Residential a reputable top 20 U.S. multifamily developer to construct urban and well located suburban properties in Dallas, Phoenix and San Diego. In Canada, leveraging our extensive experience investing in high res condominiums via THP, TLR established an in-house development team known as Tricon Development Group or TDG, so they can act as a principal developer in Toronto, and co-developer in other major Canadian markets as a means of enhancing our investment returns. TLR's investment program and pipeline are already well established with closings on two sites in Dallas, one adjacent to the Tony Highland Park neighborhood referred to as The McKenzie and the other in the fast growing North Dallas submarket of Frisco, referred to as Canals at Grand Park 2.

The McKenzie started construction in Q4, 2015 with the demolishment of existing buildings and preparation of the site for excavation, Canals at Grand Park 2 is expected to start construction in June 2016. In Canada, construction has started on The Selby, a 50 storey tower located at Bloor and Sherbourne with total committed equity capital of C$54.4 million of which 85% was invested by a major Canadian pension plan. Construction is going well with the heritage mansion successfully moved and the excavation underway. Recently, TLR closed its second development investment, a 36 storey tower located at King and Spadina in Downtown Toronto, with total committed equity capital of C$42.7 million. Similar to The Selby, TLR formed a partnership with a major Canadian institutional investor with Tricon committing 20%, and the institutional investor committing the remaining 80%. We continue to focus on growing this vertical with a robust pipeline of opportunities both in the U.S. and Canada. We expect to close on a third opportunity in Toronto in the near term.

In our Private Funds and Advisory business, contractual fee income decreased by 2% year-over-year, largely due to higher one time commitment fees in 2014 and lower investment balances as investments were realized. This was offset by fees received from new separate account and side-car investments in Johnson and Tricon Development Group.

Johnson, one of the top land developers and master planners in the U.S. sold over 2,000 lots and close to a 150 acres of commercial land in 2015, generating consolidated fee revenue of $10.8 million and a 16% unlevered yield on Tricon's 50.1% investment. In 2015, Houston's local economy and particularly its energy corridor was impacted by lower oil prices. In addition, unfavorable weather impacted delivery of homes and lots across Texas. Nonetheless, Johnson's bestselling master planned communities continue to show resilience. We attribute this to excellent in-place amenities, strong builder programs, and a well-established population referral base.

In the current market environment in Houston, we are seeing a flight to quality, and Johnson is extremely well positioned with four of the top 10 performing master plan communities in Houston and two of the top 20 communities in the United States. Johnson continued to expand its business in 2015 with the launch of Harvest Green, a master planned community in Fort Bend County, Houston, and expect to launch two new additional communities in 2016. Johnson also expanded into the Dallas-Fort Worth market in 2015 with the acquisition of Viridian, which is benefiting from significant continued population and job growth in the region. Although two months don't make a trend, Johnson's year-to-date home sales in the Houston area are actually up 12% compared to 2015, partly driven by the success of these new communities.

As further evidence of the strength of the U.S. and Canadian housing markets, in 2015, our THP investment vehicles distributed $238 million to limited partners including $67.6 million to Tricon. Additionally, several of our Canadian investment vehicles are in harvest mode and are close to repaying all capital and producing performance fees for the company. Projected returns for our THP funds declined slightly over the year, as a result of ordinary course delays in some projects, but still remain very attractive on a risk-adjusted basis.

Tricon also achieved an important milestone recently by raising third-party capital for two TLR Canada projects through separate accounts within a major Canadian institution. It is our long-term goal to raise third-party capital for all our investment verticals and this marks the first time we raised private capital outside of Tricon Housing Partners.

In conclusion, 2015 was a great year with key milestones achieved in all our investment verticals. Our fundamental outlook remains very positive and to underscore our confidence in Tricon's future prospects, we've announced a dividend increase of 8.3% from C$0.06 per share in Canadian dollars to C$0.065 per share in Canadian dollars on a quarterly basis. This marks the first dividend increase since Tricon went public and reflects a conservative payout ratio of approximately 30% based on our 2015 basic earnings per share, as translated to Canadian dollars. However, as we look at our share price and the share price of our U.S. peers, we can't help, but feel there is a disconnect between Main Street and Wall Street. We thought it would be helpful to highlight a few aspects of our company for the benefit of the investment community.

First, we are not a homebuilder, although we notice at times that our stock trades like a homebuilder. We sell lots to homebuilders, but are not subject to some of the challenges that homebuilders are seeing, specifically having to replenish land and potentially being subject to margin pressure. Our model generally allows more flexibility in adjusting business plans and product mix.

Second, our balance sheet exposure to oil-related markets amounts to less than 0.5% in Calgary and 8% in Houston. Our Houston exposure in turn consists of 5.5% through exposure to single-family rental, which we feel is very stable and just 2.5% exposure to land and homebuilding, arguably through some of the highest quality master plans that the city has to offer. In spite of negative headlines, Houston still remains the number one U.S. market for single-family housing starts and our business there is performing well.

Finally, 98% of our balance sheet is invested in the U.S. and in US dollars and is exposed to a very robust housing market that is still recovering towards the historical average of housing starts. We report our results in U.S. dollars, but our shares trade in Canadian dollars. The foreign exchange move has been a big win for our shareholders, as such we were perplexed to see our stock decline in late 2015 and early 2016 as the Canadian dollar depreciated.

In 2015, our book value per share increased by 16% and 39% in Canadian dollar terms. We are confident that overtime the markets are indeed efficient and that we will be rewarded for the value we are creating.

With that, I'll call – I'll pass the call back to Sally and we will be joined by members of our senior team for Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher with TD Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Hi, Jon.

First, just on the TLR platform and specifically in Toronto, is that the two – the two TLC you have going now, are those with the same institution or is that two separate institutions?

The same institution.

Okay. And then the third opportunity that you spoke about, would that be similar in size to the first – to the two that you're doing now or bigger, smaller?

Yeah, in the range of the first two.

Okay. And then just flipping over, you talked a little bit about harvesting some funds this year and generating performance fees. Is there – can you give us some idea of the magnitude that we could expect in 2016?

Well, I think we do expect performance fees in 2016 and probably even more in 2017, Jon. I'm a little bit loath to give you a number, as this does move around. I can tell you that the total quantum of performance fees is in line what we predicted before. We have seen slippage in timing and milestones, and so for that reason I prefer to not give you an exact number. But they should be meaningfully higher than what they were in 2015 and then they should step up even more in 2017. Sorry, I can't be more specific.

Okay. Fair enough. And then just lastly on the Tricon American Homes, and maybe this is in there and I just missed it. But is there a way, the portfolio's grown enough that, be interesting to see if there is a way you can compare the same property portfolio that you owned in Q4 2014 versus Q4 2015 to see the growth there. Do you guys have that info?

Yeah. It's something that we're preparing internally, so we can really have a same home and a basis for comparing results year-over-year. Because, otherwise I would agree, given that we're growing, I mean, we grew by 40% year-over-year. It's really hard to look at the portfolio on a same-store basis, but it is something we're preparing internally.

Okay. So that's something we can look forward to in future quarters?

Correct.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan with GMP Securities. Your line is opened.

Thanks. So Gary, maybe just speaking of capital allocation, you guys have been buying back stock, and you just increased the dividend and there is also all kinds of – you're trying to grow the other lines of business. How do you think about where you're likely to allocate more or less capital over the course of this year?

Sure. I mean look this is a growth company and a vast, vast majority of capital is being allocated to grow our various businesses. We've got ample liquidity. As of Q4 we only had $20 million drawn on our credit facility. We've got more room on our TAH warehouse facility, which will probably end up upsizing as well. We've got lots of cash coming from THP1, $250 million, from now through 2018. So we've got lots of capital to allocate to our verticals. Really with respect to the buyback program, I mean we have been active Jimmy, but we're really – I mean we're just trying to send a signaling effect that the stock's undervalued and to [indiscernible] (30:26).

Dividend just reflects our confidence in the future. The amount of additional cash, of about [ph] C$204 (30:33) million is de minimus in relation to the capital we have to grow this business.

Okay. And then, within – I think you made a comment about, you've looked at a number of large transactions within land and housing. Would you expect some of these to – with that be a decent amount of – do you expect to deploy this amount of money in that line this year?

Yeah. Well, look we love to fund – our goal is to fund one large separate account, or one major master planned deal this year. So we're working on that. These transactions take a lot of time. We were working on a very large deal, significantly bigger than Cross Creek Ranch, certainly in terms of where that investment was in terms of its lifecycle that we had in our contract. And unfortunately through our due diligence we were not able to reach the initial price. We uncovered some things and we couldn't reach terms of the vendor. So it was disappointing, but I'm telling you that to highlight the fact that we are active, and we are disciplined. And I know the market's expecting us to grow and are looking for AUM growth in this vertical, but we'll only do it if it makes sense for us and our shareholders.

Okay. Just a couple more. So on the securitized debt market for – as it relates to Tricon American Homes, just given what's happened in the debt market in the U.S., but what are you guys seeing there, is that still open? And where would pricing look today, if you were to do one?

Yeah. I'm going to have, John answer that question.

Sure, Jimmy. It's a timely question. I was just in Vegas a couple of weeks ago for the ABS Annual Conference. The markets are still open, albeit spreads have widened. There was one transaction completed in Q1 and a couple of other transactions lined up for Q2 and Q3. It is something that we would like to pursue a bit more like in the second half of this year. And our expectation is that spreads will tighten a little bit as some of the geopolitical overhang gets resolved and there is more stability in the U.S. economy.

So our target is to do something in the second half of this year. We could expect spreads to be normally wider than our initial deal but tighter than where they are today.

Wider from the first deal, would it be 50 bps wider, 100 bps wider, how, how's that look?

Today I would say the market is a 100 plus bps wider, but I would expect that things will tighten a little bit by the time we come to market.

Yeah. Lastly, just more of accounting related question. So on the separate accounts investment income this quarter, it was around $1.6 million and then compared with Q3, it was $0.6 million. I was wondering if the $1.6 million is a good run rate or if there was some sort of a one-time catch up fee that was in the quarter, that would likely not repeat in future quarters?

Yeah, I think if you look at the entire year that better forms a trend of what's going to happen on a quarter-by-quarter basis. It does tend to move around quarter-by-quarter basis depending on cash flows and valuations et cetera. So I would say – I would look at more the entire year as really a catalyst for 2016.

Okay, great. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question comes from the line of Dean Wilkinson with CIBC. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Dean.

I just had one question for you, Gary on the contractual fees on the Private Funds and Advisory; the bump that you've got in 2014 on the commitment fees, were they largely loaded in Q4?

Yes.

Okay. So that would explain the big difference there on the $9 million to the $6 million drop.

Yeah. And the other thing obviously is Johnson. It looks like there was a material drop in Johnson's fees in Q4 year-over-year, but that – I think that really over states where Johnson's at. I think one of the things we should point out is that, even though the lot sales might be more consistent, the large commercial pad and land sales can be very lumpy.

Right.

And so in Q4 2014 Johnson reported some very large commercial land transactions, including a 38-acre parcel to Imperial Master Planned, Dean and that had a big impact on the Q4 2014 number. So Johnson's a little bit softer, but on the whole is still performing very, very well.

It's in line with your expectations?

Yeah, exactly.

Perfect. Okay. That's all I had. Thanks guys.

Thanks.

There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to Mr. Gary Berman.

Thank you, Sally. I would like to thank all of you on this call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in May when we discuss the results for Q1 2016.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen for participating. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.