Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — President & Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Glenn Watchorn — Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Vice President, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Wojtek K. Nowak — Analyst, Fraser Mackenzie
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Tricon Q3 Investor Call. At this time, all lines are in the listen-only mode. But later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, note that this conference is being recorded today Monday, November 12, 2012.

I now would like to turn the conference over to your host Mr. David Berman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, which was set out news release we distributed earlier this morning. Our quarterly financial statements and MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR.

With me today in our offices are June Alikhan, our Chief Financial Officer; and Gary Berman, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer. Joining me from other parts of the globe are Glenn Watchorn, Co-Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Ellenzweig, Vice President.

Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until November the 19th.

Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our limited partnership funds. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both most recent AIF, Annual Information Form and our most recent short form prospectus which are available on SEDAR.

I will start with the summary of the third quarter highlight, June will then briefly review the key financial results, also which Glenn, Gary, and Jon, will provide some commentary on what we are seeing in the markets, in which we operate. I will conclude by commenting on our outlook and business prospects. We will then be pleased to take your questions.

For the second consecutive quarter, Tricon announced record financial results with both quarterly revenue and adjusted EBITDA, increasing by over 200%, when compared to Q3 2011. These results were bolstered by our new U.S. single-family rental strategy as well as additional fees and income generated by first close by our new distressed U.S. fund, Tricon XI.

Although, our assets under management, AUM, declined to CAD 1.1 billion at the end of Q3. This decline is attributable to exclusion of two older funds, both of which are in runoff mode and as a result will not meaningfully impact our contractual management fee revenue going forward.

The major operational highlight for the quarter was US$125 million first closed for Tricon XI, with a top five U.S. State Pension Plan and the company committing US$100 million and US$25 million respectively.

In the wake of this close, our senior management team has been deeply engaged with the fund raising process, meeting with large public and private pension funds, endowments, family offices and the like.

Potential investors are keenly aware of the upside inherit in buying U.S. distressed land at this point in the economic cycle and we have a full flake of marketing meetings lined up through year-end 2012 and beyond.

In our principal investing business, we continue to grow our U.S. single-family platform during the quarter, with the acquisition of 488 homes. At quarter end, we own 651 consisting of 605 rental homes and 46 homes designated for sale. We also sold 22 homes during the quarter at an average profit margin of 9%. With an average hold period of 73 days, this equates to a 45% return on a non-compounded annualized basis.

In addition, in July, we added a new operating partner in Southeast Florida increasing our number of operating partners to four.

And as I have previously stated, given that it takes generally 60 days to 90 days from the acquisition before a rental home cash flows, we don't expect this strategy to produce meaningful financial results until the end of Q4, and I would ask you to take that into account when you evaluate our prospects going forward into 2013.

Finally, I am very pleased to announce that on November 9, our board of directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment in amount of CAD 0.06 a share to shareholders of record on December 31. This dividend will be payable on January 15, 2013.

With that, I will now turn our presentation over to June for a summary of how we have performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thanks, David. Tricon's financial results released earlier today are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS, and are presented in Canadian dollars unless noted otherwise. Management's discussion and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website and SEDAR.

Total adjusted base revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, increased by CAD 7,456,000 or 277% to CAD 10,146,000, when compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2011 and were bolstered by revenue from U.S. single-family homes designated for sale.

Adjusted EBITDA for Q3 2012 increased by CAD 2,288,000 or 210% to CAD 3,379,000, augmented by the gain realized on the sale of warehouse investments to Tricon XI and the contribution from the new U.S. single-family rental strategy.

Similarly, adjusted net income for the quarter was CAD 1,692,000, 186% higher than the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Accordingly, adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share for the quarter were CAD 0.05 compared to CAD 0.03 for the corresponding period in 2011.

In summary, we are extremely pleased but not surprised with the strong improvement in our key financial metrics as we continue to advance both our asset management and principal investing business.

I will now turn the presentation back to David.

Thanks, June. In order to provide shareholders with additional insights on the residential real estate markets in both Canada and United States, including our U.S. single-family platform, I have invited Glenn, Gary and John to provide some additional commentary. Glenn?

Thank you, David. The third quarter of 2012 marks the fourth consecutive quarter of overall positive results and the key indicators in the U.S. housing market, which is significant evidence that a sustainable recovery is well underway. The third quarter saw a continued improvement in practically every measure, including inventory levels, sales of both new and resale homes, housing starts, consumer confidence and foreclosure activity. Most notably, recent data shows that home prices have demonstrated the most dramatic improvement with year-to-date inflation, the highest since 2005.

As stated in last quarter's commentary, home prices were improving in many of the markets across the country and in many of Tricon's projects. And it was expected that 2012 would be the first year since 2006 in which the U.S. would experience home price appreciation. While Tricon and many industry observers continue to expect this to hold true, the magnitude of this price appreciation is significantly higher than originally expected at somewhere between 7% and 9%.

Historically, inflationary home price cycles lasted four to six years with the exception of the 1995 to 2006 period. And with 2012 marking the first year of a potentially new cycle, the implications for the housing market and the overall economy in the short- to medium-term are very positive.

A number of factors have contributed to the recent increase in home prices. Firstly, there has been a steady decline in foreclosure activity as well as the underlying pipeline of shadow inventory. Secondly, while there has been an increase in demand for both distressed and non-distressed housing, the proportion of homes sold on a non-distressed basis has increased significantly over the last few quarters. Non-distressed sales have been buoyed primarily by the historically low mortgage interest rates and a positive change in media headlines and consumer sentiments.

Distressed sales, while increasing on a proportionate basis, have been aided by the increase in demand from buy to rent investors and the trend towards short sales as a more effective means of disposition by the banks. These latest developments have helped to stabilize the market and will ultimately initiate the process of reversion to what we believe was an overcorrection to the housing prices.

Evidence of such overcorrection can be seen in the currently abnormal relationship between the cost of renting and the cost of owning, where renting is currently more expensive than ownership in many markets. Historically, there has been a premium to the cost of owning versus renting and we expect that house prices will continue to rise until this relationship reversed back to historic norms. Until such time, there will be continued source of distressed in opportunistic transactions that Tricon will be able to source. We are still seeing very attractive opportunities and to-date have already committed to approximately CAD 95 million of new transactions to our most recent fund Tricon XI. These investments include a new single-family housing development with our partner, the new home company in Southern California and a large master plan land development in Phoenix.

The Phoenix transaction is a good example of the quality of investments that we have been seeing in the market. Phoenix is a market, which has been rapidly improving over the last year. In this case, we have invested with a longstanding development partner, Community Southwest to acquire 1,550 acres of land in an already established, entitled and partially developed master planned community in Southeastern Phoenix.

There are 599 homes and a grocery anchored retail center already built and occupied with further entitlements for another 4,235 lots in 110 acres of commercial and multifamily land. The land was acquired for CAD 19.5 million or just CAD 12,600 per acre, which was significantly less than the cost of the work already completed for major infrastructure, landscaping and parks.

If one attributed no value to the commercial and multifamily land, this works at less than CAD 5,000 per lot. Looking at this another way, if you were to track the cost of the work already put into the ground from our acquisition price, we were effectively getting the land for free, not to mention the 10 years of time spent planning – in planning, engineering and construction to get the community to its current state.

Further, the financial structure for the development going forward does not include any leverage and we are expecting to receive a 22% compounded annual return or IRR, which on a risk adjusted basis is really quite amazing.

As previously mentioned, we continue to believe that the next year or so will be – we will be able to find similar institutional quality projects at distressed prices, and that these acquisitions will ultimately provide exceptional returns to both our fund investors and our shareholders.

With that, I'll pass it over to Gary to discuss the Canadian market.

Thanks, Glenn. The Federal government and Bank of Canada's plan to slowdown the Canadian housing market down is working. By making meaningful changes to the mortgage market and screening [indiscernible] (12:34) the Fed changed Canadian consumers' sentiments towards housing and this is becoming increasingly evident for both anecdotal data and reported statistics.

For instance, national existing home prices are flat and are potentially trending down on a real basis for the first time since 2009. The Toronto condo market which has become the poster trial for government attacks has cooled off significantly with several failed launches and sales down 30% year-over-year.

As we've said before, in many ways we welcome a controlled softening of the market, particularly in the Toronto condo market as prices have run up too quickly, own-to-rent fundamentals have deteriorated and costs have swelled with the industry operating at or above capacity. A slowdown or stock correction, which we believe we are in the midst of, will help shake out the industry and should provide additional opportunities for well-capitalized financiers such as Tricon.

We are often asked whether we think the Canadian housing market in general or the Toronto condo market specifically is headed for U.S. dollar crash, and believe the likelihood of this happening is very low, given that the current slowdown has been triggered by government intervention which could be quickly reversed if the market correction overshoots and as the supply of existing housing condos is extremely tight as evidenced by near-zero vacancy and tightness in the rental market.

Further, even if the Toronto condo market where the current fallout seems most pronounced – even in the Toronto condo market where the fallout seems most pronounced, it seems as if there is still significant demand at certain price points as demonstrated by the recent tenured launch, which is the [indiscernible] (14:14), which reportedly received 1,000 orders for unit price at CAD 650 per square foot. In contrast, similar projects launched at approximately CAD 800 per square foot have received no interest from the investor community.

It is important to remember that condos for the most part are really just glorified apartments that are being rented by individual landlords, investors rather than REITs or other institutions. To induce investors to buy these condos that have the perceived value and if they can make an economic return on their investment.

In some markets where this value equation exist, demand remains strong and we're seeing this firsthand in are most recent suburban Vancouver condo investment in metro town where we've now sold over 80% of our units at prices of roughly CAD 600 per square foot.

In this period [indiscernible] (15:05) we are being extremely selective with the bias towards Western Canada and we will only entertain a Toronto condo project if the land is in A-plus location, has alternate uses and has been purchased below current market prices. We don't feel any pressure to put capital out and will wait for better opportunities if we can't find them today and they will eventually come.

I am now going to hand it over to Jon, to talk about the single-family rental market.

Thanks, Gary. As noted by David earlier in the call, at quarter end, we owned 651 homes, of which 605 were rental stocks. We have continued to acquire additional homes over the past month and now own over 700 rental homes, in addition to approximately 56 properties. Approximately 50% of our portfolio is located in California where the median resale home price has increased by 20% year-over-year, however still remains 45% below the peak price, which was achieved five years ago. Needless to say, we still believe that there is room for significant price appreciation in California.

The remainder of our portfolio is split nearly equally between Southeast Florida and Phoenix, which have experienced year-over-year resale home price appreciation of 13% and 24% respectively, yet remain at discounts of nearly 50% from key. Throughout all of our markets, in spite of recent home price appreciation, we remain keenly cognizant of housing affordability and continue to target workforce housing. We like to own homes where two hard working blue-collar parents can raise their family and easily afford their monthly rents.

We've also seen increased competition over the past quarters, as large Wall Street private equity sharks have entered the market in a big way, outbidding competitors at auctions and targeting portfolios of 10,000 homes to 15,000 homes. We welcome this competition as it will help further institutionalize the industry. In fact, there have already been several pre-IPO or private placement firms in the U.S. and we anticipate the first publicly-traded dedicated single-family rental company to emerge next year.

We remain steadfast with our strategy of buying one to two homes per day, per market and in spite of this additional competition, we have been able to continue to meet our targets, in terms of both volume, but more importantly in terms of both cap rates and quality of homes. Our operating partners are nimble and have found unique ways to source assets, staying ahead of the competition and becoming the buyer-of-choice for brokers and off-market home sellers.

As you continue to buy homes, we are also continually evaluating the remaining distressed inventory in our markets and are cognizant that this buying opportunity will not last forever. We expect that opportunities in Phoenix will slow down through the first half of next year and we very well could stop buying there by this time next year, with some California markets not thus far behind.

We still see significant opportunities in the South East where housing markets took longer to crash and are taking longer to reemerge from the crises. In addition, foreclosures in Florida must go through a judicial process, whereby it could take two years to three years for a home owner to get evicted from their home, which will extend the distressed home buying time horizon.

In that regard, we are considering expansion into Orlando and Charlotte to balance our portfolio and may also redistribute some of our capital focused on California into Los Angeles County, a market where we are not currently active, yet remains ripe with opportunities and reduced competition.

We've also begun to add leverage to our portfolio. During the previous quarter, our Sacramento partner took on a small CAD 10 million credit facility with a local bank which bears a 5% annual rate of interest and interest only payments for the next five years. We see our broader leverage strategy involving a large credit facility across the entire Tricon platform, and to-date we've had very positive discussions with several large Wall Street banks regarding a CAD 50 million to CAD 100 million facility at LIBOR plus 350 basis points to 400 basis points and 60% to 70% loan to cost, which will provide significantly enhanced cash-on-cash returns to our shareholders.

In summary, we continue to be very satisfied with our U.S. single-family operating partners in the markets in which we operate. We believe that the remainder of 2012 and the bulk of 2013 will prevent strong distressed buying opportunities, during which time home price appreciation will also increase the value of our portfolio.

I will now turn the call back over to David for his concluding remarks.

Thank you, gentlemen. On a weekly basis, I feel calls from shareholders and potential shareholders asking about the Canadian housing market and in particular the Toronto condominium market. I know that Gary has already addressed this in his remarks, however, I thought that it would be worth highlighting Tricon's exposure to our local markets on those calls.

On our consolidated balance sheet of Tricon to CAD 167 million of assets, only CAD 5.3 million is currently invested in Canada, with a maximum exposure of CAD 20 million throughout our co-investment in Tricon XII. Put another way, if the full CAD 20 million is invested in Canada, this would amount to just 12% of our existing assets, of which [ph] 50% (20:35) or 6% of total assets would be in Toronto. In addition, less than 7% of our projected revenue in 2013 will be derived from our Canadian funds.

Finally, with regards to Toronto condominium market, while we expect the current downturn – slowdown to result in a soft landing, less than 8% of our current portfolio of Toronto condominium developments is unsold, with essentially minimal unsold units in Tricon VIII and Tricon X, the two Canadian funds that are slated to deliver performance fees in next few years. Obviously, there is some risk that a prolonged downturn could impact the performance of Tricon XII. However, we have been extremely careful in making new investments in Canada and particularly in Toronto, and are structuring all investments to minimize downside risk as opposed to maximizing potential upside.

I believe that this cautions and pragmatic approach is in the best interest of our private funding business and will also benefit our public company shareholders in the long run. As an aside, it should be noted that since 2008, Tricon and Tricon Funds have made only three investments into long-term, prior to which we were one of the largest financiers of condominium developments in the city.

In short, while we believe that investing in Canada is an important part of our current and future business model, our near-term focus is on United States where distressed opportunities are much more pervasive.

To recap, I am extremely satisfied with our results this quarter and year-to-date. We continue to grow both our asset management and principal investing businesses and have focused the company to capitalize on the distressed but recovering U.S. housing market.

I would now welcome any questions from participants on this call.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] . And our first question will be from Jenny Ma. Please state your affiliation and proceed.

Hi. Jenny from Canaccord. Just wanted to get some more detail on your strategy of selling certain homes within your portfolio of the U.S. You have targets in which some proportion of the portfolio is slated for flip homes if you will and how do you determine what kind of return you want for the moving period?

Jon, would you care to answer that one?

Sure, David. Not a problem in that. Jenny, thanks for the question. In our portfolio right now, the vast majority of our capital is slated for rent homes and we expect that to continue throughout the course of this strategy. But from time-to-time, we do see home which we think are better slated for flip, typically those homes are certainly more expensive than the home that we're buying for rental. So, we generate a slightly over cap rate than what we're targeting on a rental basis, but would still generate call it an 8% to 10% profit margin on a flip basis. And that's really what we're looking for at 8% to 10% profit margin per home. And if we can turn a home or cattle three times a year, we can generate a 25% to 35% annualized return on those flip homes. And if you look at our earnings for this quarter, that's what we've got. We've been able to generate upwards of 45% annualized return on our flips and we expect that to continue for the quarters to come.

Al right, Jenny.

Yeah.

Okay. Go ahead.

No, I was just asking, is it fair to say that you're targeting the return as opposed to the investment period. So, if you're getting the 8% to 10% in a month or three months or six months, that is when you plan on selling this property?

It's not a capital appreciation again. We really expect in the flip strategy that it will take anywhere from two months to four months to sell the home, and it's really more a matter the time it takes to renovate and sell and close the home. It's not buying and then holding for any appreciation. It's really just taking advantage of the dislocation in the market whereas we can put the improvements cheaper than the end user and we're – because we see so many homes on a daily basis, we know which homes are most desirable to end users.

Okay. Now, when you see these homes, is it more opportunistic or do you actually spend some time looking for homes specifically for flipping, as opposed to the longer-term rental strategy?

It's just a part and parcel of the rental strategy, because our operator see so many homes both at auction and through the MLS. They look at every home and they gain a very keen sense of which homes will be appropriate for rental and which will be appropriate for flip. It's just – it's because [indiscernible] (15:34) every home already, they know which will fit each box.

Yeah, back to Jenny, just to continue Jon's line of thought over here, we're not targeting those homes. The strategy is very much a rental strategy and even to the extent that we see these homes, we do limit the percentage of homes that can be acquired by our operating partners.

Do you have a certain number as far as that percentage grows?

Jenny, not more than 3% to 5%.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Our next question will be from Wojtek K. Nowak. Please state your affiliation and proceed.

Thanks. Wojtek Nowak from Fraser Mackenzie, good morning, everyone. Just to further on to Jenny's question, are you still targeting 20% roughly of your home portfolio to be flip homes?

No. Gary?

Yeah. Hi. We are targeting in certain of the portfolios, David may be correct on average, but in certain portfolios, we're targeting up to 10% to 20% of the homes for flip. And again, as John said, we sell all our homes on a given day and there's some homes which just make better – are better homes for flipped than they are for rent, partly because of the price. So that is correct. We're still continuing to do that in certain portfolios.

Okay. Thanks for that. Secondly, for the homes that you're renting out, what kind of rental expense ratio are you targeting over the medium long-term?

We're targeting – so what we're seeing in our current portfolio is, we're seeing an expense ratio up about 26%. So, if we said that you know our gross cap rate is roughly 12%, we're seeing a property level expense ratio of 26% and that's on a stabilized basis. But what we are seeing is because certain homes take time to get leased, and obviously, during that period of time, you still have to pay your property taxes, that amounts to roughly 36%, but we believe that once the properties are fully stabilized that will come down to roughly 26% on our current portfolio. And that's, again, just at a property level, that does not include operator management fees.

Okay, thanks for that. And just lastly, you've arranged a $15 million credit facility at the corporate level. What's going to be the use of that?

The $50 million, you're referring to the convertible debenture?

No, no.

No, $1,515 million?

That's the day-to-day operating facility needs that the company might have, it's not really for any specific purpose.

Okay. Thanks very much, that's it for me.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And currently Mr. Berman, we have our next question coming from Jimmy Shan, no I'm sorry the question was withdrawn. We have a follow-up from Mr. Nowak. Please go ahead.

Yes, thank you. So, [ph] hold on (29:13) we have the time here, I guess. Can I ask you on your – your Canadian fund, Tricon XII I guess. Is there any contractual obligations for you to invest the funds by a particular date at which point you'd have to refund some of those funds to your investor or is it kind of an open investment horizon with a roughly three to four year time period?

The funds have an investment period, which in this case is three years; and we have up until that time to actually invest the capital. There is nothing contractual within the fund, which [indiscernible] (29:51) we have to invest the capital, but we do have to invest it by a certain date. If we don't invest the capital, then the two things could happen. One, first of all, the fund which is to be smaller in terms of the amount of invested capital; or two, we can potentially go back to our Limited Partners and ask them to extend the investment period.

And I can tell you, we've had conversations with our Limited Partners, which has gone – which is that, we do not expect to rush the money out, given the flux in the market. And the feedback we've received has been very positive, they thank us for that, for being careful with their money and we've actually heard from some of them, which is to say that they would consider extending the investment period if it came to that.

I think the other important thing to take into account is the fact that the fee we get paid, management fees, on the amount of committed capital joint investment period, not the amount of capital committed.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question will be from the line of Jimmy Shan. Please state your affiliation and proceed.

Thanks. It's with GMP Securities. Good morning guys. Just wanted to go back to the single-family rental. So it looks like the market is moving pretty quickly in terms of prices. So just wondering what are you seeing in terms of appreciation and value on the rental homes that you've bought maybe earlier in the year?

I would definitely state they have moved up in value. At this point in time Jimmy, I'm a bit low as to put a percentage number on that one. I think you can draw some conclusions from the comments that the guys made about overall price increases over the period of time, recognizing that we have been buying through this period and not all at the beginning, not all at the end.

But we will be doing a valuation at the end of the year, and – but at the same time, as we look at that valuation and look at the valuations, one thing we are very careful about is we don't want to sort of basically lead people along and say we have significant capital appreciation to then have to move that down – down the future. From our perspective, we really made money when its realized, not so much on the expectation of an increase in value.

Right. And remind me again, when you are buying those homes at the end of the year, what will be the approach? Would you be hiring external appraisers to do a sample or what's the approach there?

Jimmy, we're currently looking at a couple of different processes, but we're leaning towards third-party appraisals.

Okay. Can you do that on the entire portfolio?

We would look at possibly the entire portfolio or close to the entire portfolio.

Okay. And then on the credits facility there, when do you expect to finalize and secure that credit facility?

The credit facility has actually closed, Jimmy.

Oh, I'm sorry, yeah. I meant the one that Jonathan mentioned on the single-family homes.

Hey, Jon, I'll let you take that.

Sure, Jimmy. We're actively working with several different banks and our target is really in Q1 or early Q2 to have something in place. Part of it, obviously, depends on their ability to move with speed. But we have active dialogues with several different groups recognizing that we stop and picked one horse to go with, we're still working to get best terms for our shareholders.

Okay. And if I heard correctly, you said it was LIBOR plus 300 bps or 400 bps with 60% to 70% loan to cost?

Correct.

Okay. And then on the fund management side of the business, I just wanted to understand the timing of the movements of the various funds going in and out. So, like when exactly did in the quarter did Tricon VI and Tricon VII come out and when did Tricon XI came into effect?

We took them – Tricon VI and Tricon VII came out at the end of the quarter, just before the end of the quarter. So we report the assets under management at the end of the quarter, it's not a weighted average, it's the number at the end of the quarter. Tricon XI and so effectively the speed that we earned when we support Tricon VI and Tricon VII will earn through the end of the quarter. Tricon XI, effectively started as of July 1, even though we closed in September.

Okay. Okay. And then as we look out to 2013, do you expect any maybe Tricon VIII to be running off in 2013 or what's the outlook there?

I think Tricon VIII – we will have some runoff in terms of assets under management, because we're beyond the investment period and some of the projects are starting to close. So we will have runoff that we will not be like Tricon. Effectively, the way we count for our funds, is if we are earning fees then those funds stay in as asset under administration even though those fees might be declining. In the case of Tricon VIII, we will continue to earn fees probably for a couple of years maybe and then we'll go into performance fees.

Okay. And then lastly just on the Tricon XI, so given your discussions which sounds to be pretty positive, what's your expectation in terms hitting CAD 300 million or CAD 400 million additional [indiscernible] (35:30) on that fund?

The expectation is still there, though I think the one thing I must caution you is the very tough fund raising environment in the U.S. at this particular point of time. We are having discussions with investment managers who see the underlying or the potential profitability from this strategy, but it's still a matter of – instances of also convincing their board. So we see this being a slow process.

We expect that – we have effectively a 15-month period between the first close and the second close. So we see the commitments coming. So, I would say, evenly over the course of 2013, we would not expect anything in 2012. We would see the – given where we are at this time of the year, we see it coming evenly over 2013 with the expectation that we will get to the $300 million to $400 million. The one thing to remember of course is that to the extent that we do get commitments, the fees are retroactive to July 1 of 2012.

Great. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question will be coming from [indiscernible] (36:43) Private Investor. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. Unfortunately I missed the presentation, my loss. I am wondering who will be your typical renter, are they people who have lost their homes and their capital through foreclosure? And if so, what kind of reduction monthly costs would they have compared to trying to own a house?

Jon, do you want to take?

Sure. You know a lot of our portfolios, so you're correct that a typical renter is someone who has been displaced. In a lot of cases, it's a family with a couple of kids and maybe a pet and they've lost their home to foreclosure and the last thing that, that family wants is to have move into 800 or 900 square foot apartment in a building with a, kind of, more transient types and so they're very, very happy to stay in our home.

In terms of affordability, they're typically seeing a big reduction in their payment because they would have been at a higher home price basis as well as a higher mortgage rate, but in terms of what they're paying in rent compared to what their cost would be today to own the home, it's actually usually a slightly more than the home ownership cost.

What we're seeing now is really a dislocation in the U.S. market where the ownership costs are lower than the rental costs, that's part of our underlying thesis where we do expect those to come more into equilibrium in the future with resultant higher home prices. People can afford to pay, it's just more of a credit issue at this point in time than anything.

And do you see – is the success of your strategy then tied fairly closely to estimates of the employment rate?

We do see the U.S. employment rate improve – unemployment rate reducing over time and so, there is some correlation obviously if unemployment continues to tighten in the U.S. then our home prices will go up. But in general, we're also underwriting all of our homes to a strong current yield and we're trying to target, call it 8% across the entire portfolio. So regardless of whether there's long-term home price appreciation or not, we still would generate a very strong return just from the rental yields.

If I can add to that, it's not entirely tied to the employment picture, because we have the view that people need to live somewhere and in this case, again because of foreclosure crisis, they've been misplaced and can't own homes, but they still need to have a roof over their head, so instead, they're renting.

But on the other side, what we are seeing is that this actual investment strategy unto itself is creating a huge amount of jobs, we recently read a report that said that the investor-to-rent model could create upwards of a million jobs in the U.S., as the homes are purchased by investors and then rehab and leach. It is a new job engine.

Right.

And I will remind you that, if you look at the jobs that were lost, roughly 8 million or 9 million jobs that were lost during the Great Recession, almost half of them were related to housing or spin-off activities related to housing.

So, as single-family rental becomes institutionalized and as the overall housing market improves, we're going to see gains on the housing side. And so, that should be a real positive, but it's not – this strategy in some way – one of the beauty of the strategy to a certain extent, the ongoing operation is independent of the employment picture.

Obviously we want to try and acquire homes in markets that have better prospects for job growth. And to the extent that we have more job growth, we're going to see more appreciation in the underlying prices of the homes.

Can I ask you one more question?

Sure.

What was your distressed property project? I think is it Tricon XI, I am not sure in the States, would mean to Tricon's overall bottom-line or can you invest separately in the Tricon XI?

Yeah. Tricon XI is a private fund. The exposure that the public company has is really the co-investment. So the public company is making a US$25 million co-investment this first closes the US$125 million. So we ourselves are investing US$25 million. So that is from a shareholders' perspective, the exposure and obviously the income or any capital appreciation that comes from the investment. In addition to that as with all our other funds, the public company gets the benefit of the fees, the management fees and also the potential performance fees, if we hit our hurdles.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And at this time Mr. Berman we have no other questions registered.

Thank you, operator. So in concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in March when we discuss our results for the fourth quarter. Thank you.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once again, we do like to thank you for attending and ask that you please disconnect your lines. Enjoy the rest of your day.