Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director-Corporate Finance & Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Mark Rothschild — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Lorne Kalmar — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Virgil, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Q3 Analyst Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Wojtek Nowak, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Virgil. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, which were shared in the news release we distributed yesterday.

I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information. This information is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to our most recent Management's Discussion and Analysis and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR. Our remarks also include references to non-GAAP financial measures, which are explained and reconciled in our MD&A.

I would also like to remind everyone that all figures are being quoted in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible until November 17, 2016.

Lastly, please note that during this call, we will be referring to a supplementary conference call presentation, which we have posted on our website. If you haven't accessed it already, it will be useful tool to help you follow along during the call. You can find the presentation in the Investor Information section of triconcapital.com under the News Releases tab.

With that, I will turn the call over to Wissam Francis, CFO of Tricon Capital Group.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. Before we discuss our third quarter results, I'd like to take a minute to talk about our commitment to simplifying our financial reporting. We sometimes hear from the investment community that our company is complex. However, our research has shown that this perception does not apply to our business. The investment community generally understands what we do and how we make money rather this seems complexity pertains to our financial reporting and understanding how the operating results of our various protocols tie to our income statement and balance sheet.

With that in mind, we set out to revamp our MD&A and are pleased to unveil the new format this quarter. Let me highlight a few key changes, we've made as shown on slide five of the conference call presentation. First, we simplified the overall presentation of the results and gave greater prominence to IFRS measures. Second, we now provide a clear linkage between operating performance on the investment verticals and our IFRS balance sheet and income statement metrics.

Third, we minimize the number of adjusting items between our IFRS financials and our adjusted measures, such as adjusted EBITDA and adjusted income. The new items we now adjust for are transaction costs, non-recurring items or non-cash items such as changes in the fair value of derivatives and foreign exchange gains or losses.

Fourth, we provided additional metrics in the Q3 MD&A that we have never disclosed before such as funds from operation and core funds from operation, [indiscernible] (2:56) verticals Tricon American Homes and Tricon Lifestyle Communities. We also added disclosure around the projected cash flows and performance fees to provide more clarity and transparency in our reporting.

And lastly, we added more visual way finding techniques in the MD&A to clearly show how numbers are derived, how these numbers changed from period to period and how each investment vertical connects with the whole picture. We hope this new MD&A format will provide simple and transparent reporting to our investors and help service value over time. And we welcome any feedback from analysts and the investment community on our new document.

Now, let's discuss the quarter and moving on to slide six. We had a very strong quarter driven by growth in AUM. Our assets under management increased year-over-year by 23% to $3.1 billion, CAD 4.1 billion. During the third quarter, Tricon Housing Partners, our land and homebuilding investment vertical, added $100 million of AUM, largely driven from our investment in Trinity Falls in existing master planned community acquired in July.

In Tricon American Homes, our single-family rental platform, AUM increased by $38 million including $22 million of fair value gains driven by strong home price appreciation in the markets we operate. The balance is mainly comprised of upfront renovation CapEx on homes acquired in Q2.

During the quarter, we slowed down the acquisition pace of new homes to prepare for the buyout of the minority interest in the business. In Tricon Lifestyle Communities, our manufactured housing, land lease business, assets under management increased by $11 million mainly as a result of acquisition of Brighthaven PLC's 11th age-restricted community in Arizona.

And Tricon Luxury Residences are Class A multi-family rental development vertical. All five existing projects continue to advance on schedule with no material change to AUM. The overall growth in AUM was partially offset by $19 million of distributions from maturing investments and the related reduction of invested capital in Tricon Housing Partners, specifically in THP2 Canada.

As you can see on slide seven, we continue to charge ahead with our growth plans adding $429 million of AUM since the start of the year by deploying $182 million of equity capital across our verticals into a multitude of new investments that are expected to drive earnings over time.

Moving to slide eight, where we outlined the various components of our IFRS income statement. Fee revenue from Private Funds and Advisory business decreased by 9% from $7.6 million to $7 million year-over-year. The fee revenue consists of, first, contractual fees and private investment vehicles, such as TDG and Johnson; second, general partner distributions; and third, performance fees.

The main point of the variance here was Johnson which declined by $1.5 million from a very strong Q3 in the prior year. This was offset by growth in TDG development fees related to TLR Canada projects, performance fees related to THP and relatively stable asset management fees from private investment vehicles.

At Tricon Housing Partners, investment income increased by 19% this quarter to $6.1 million versus $5.1 million last year. This was driven by new investments in Trinity Falls existing master plan in Dallas as well as the THP U.S. SP1 separate account, and partly offset by lower income from THP1 U.S. This fund is in harvest mode, and so ongoing distributions result in a lower investment balance and, therefore, lower investment income.

At Tricon American Homes, investment income was $20.7 million compared to $5.0 million in Q3 last year, an increase of 37%. TAH investment income is comprised of net operating income and fair value adjustments plus interest and overhead expense. TAH recorded a 29% increase in net operating income, mainly as a result of an increase in the number of properties owned, as well as a higher fair value gain driven by strong home price appreciation. Positive results were offset by higher overhead and interest expense incurred from operating a larger portfolio.

At Tricon Lifestyle Communities, investment income was $1.5 million compared to $0.1 million from Q3 2015, as the portfolio grew from two parts to 11 parts and TLC continued to enhance its operation.

And at Tricon Luxury Residences, investment income $0.6 million was a result of fair value gains recognized in TLR U.S. projects as development milestones were achieved. In terms of corporate operating expenses, compensation expense was $6.8 million in Q3. An increase of $1.8 million from the last year, mainly as a result of higher [indiscernible] (7:51) related to higher projected performance fees.

The compensation expense also increased as a result of expanding our team and supporting our future growth. Other expenses included a significant positive impact reporting in 2015 from changes in the fair value of the derivative embedded in our convertible debentures, which is driven by movements in our share price as well as foreign exchange gains due to the depreciation of the Canadian dollar. Such items tend to be volatile quarter-over-quarter and, in our opinion, do not reflect the underlying performance of the company.

For this reason on slide nine, we present the adjusted metrics that we typically discuss on this call. These metrics are explained in Section 6 of our new MD&A and exclude the impact of transaction costs, non-recurring and non-cash items to present a normalized picture of Tricon financials performance.

Overall, adjusted net income was $21 million for the quarter as compared to $12 million for the same period in 2015. Adjusted basic earnings per share were $0.19 in the third quarter, a 58% increase from the $0.12 recorded in the prior year's period. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $0.17, a 70% increase from the $0.10 recorded in the prior year's period.

The increase was driven by higher investment income from all verticals, offset to some extent by the higher interest and tax expense and a higher number of common shares. Adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was $34.1 million, an increase of $8.9 million or 35% for the same period of 2015. This was driven by the continued growth in our various verticals which continued to contribute higher investment income.

As you can see on Slide 10, our continued focus on growth in AUM is driving our growth in our adjusted EPS and our adjusted EBITDA. As part of our revamped MD&A, we also introduced new disclosure to help you assess our performance. For THP as shown on slide 11, we are presenting several new metrics. First, outstanding invested capital at cost, so you can see how this compares to fair value on our balance sheet. Second, projected distributions net of advances to Tricon, which tells you clearly how much net income – how much net cash flow we expected from our THP investments on a go-forward basis relative to the outstanding invested capital.

And third, investment income expressed on an annualized basis as an invested capital, this metric was $8.4 million in Q3, and we generally expected to be in the range of 9% to 11% on a full-year basis. With Q4 typically being stronger than other quarters, as a result of the timing of annual appraisals.

For our REIT-like verticals, TAH and TLC, we introduced FFO and core FFO, a new performance metric to make the presentation more comparable to our peers as shown on slide 12. FFO represents investment income excluding the impact of fair value adjustments on other non-cash items, while core FFO presents FFO as a normalized figure adjusting for transaction costs and non-recurring items and is a metric commonly used by our peers.

You can see here that our TAH vertical core FFO was $5.4 million this quarter, 43% higher than last year. On a year-to-date basis, core FFO was $17.4 million reflecting a 53% increase year-over-year. Over time, we introduced additional metrics for TAH such as same home results, which should make its performance even more transparent and comparable to other single-family rental REITs. On that note, we have been working with our peer group and the National Rental Home Council to develop and refine the definition of these metrics, so that key performance indicators are recorded consistently across companies.

Lastly on slide 13, we provide a summary of our liquidity position. We have access to credit facility of $235 million to deploy into growth initiatives within our various verticals. As of September 30, 2016, approximately $160 million was drawn on the facility. Another significant source of liquidity for us is our 68.4% interest in THP1 U.S. As we have stated in the past, we continue to expect $200 million of cash to Tricon from this fund between now and 2018.

The next major project to track is Rockwell, a condominium development project located in the Pacific Heights neighborhood of San Francisco. Construction of the West Tower is now completed and closing began in Q3 with meaningful cash distribution expected in late 2016 and early 2017.

Finally, Tricon American Homes has access to 400 million warehouse credit facility. Subsequent to the quarter, TAH completed its second securitization transaction and received gross proceeds of approximately $363 million. The bulk of this was applied to TAH's existing warehouse facility, reducing the outstanding balance to approximately $59 million and giving TAH ample room to continue growing its single-family rental portfolio. Another $60 million was repatriated as equity to Tricon and applied against our corporate credit facility.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Gary who will provide additional insight into our various business verticals.

Thank you, Wissam. Let's begin with Tricon Housing Partners on slide 15. During the quarter, THP completed a $74 million investment in Trinity Falls, fully entitled 1,700 acre master planned community in metropolitan Dallas, increasing THP's AUM to $1.5 billion. Similar THP's prior investments in Viridian and Cross Creek Ranch, Trinity Falls is an established cash flowing master plan, which has already sold 700 residential lots to homebuilders in the past two years and the business plan is to continue the current pace development to deliver another 3,200 lots of homebuilders over the next 10 years.

Trinity Falls is our fifth investment and partnership with the Johnson Companies, who act as a developer of the project. At the current time, we plan to retain Trinity Falls in our balance sheet given the anticipated run-off in the investment balance of our legacy funds and our desire to keep a relative balance between our TAH and THP principal investments. However, if the right opportunity comes up, we may change that decision and ultimately syndicate it. [ph]

Point of emphasis (14:16) related to Trinity Falls and our other existing investments in THP is a focus we have on providing affordably priced product to cater to an important, but currently underserved segment of the housing market, the first-time homebuyer. For Trinity Falls specifically, 82% of home sales in 2016 have occurred between $250,000 and $400,000 with an average year-to-date home sales price of $365,000. These affordably priced community should benefit from the so-called Millennials whose oldest members are reaching the age of 37 as they start to form families of their own and move out of denser urban locations to areas with strong schools and family-oriented communities.

As you can see on slide 16, first-time homebuyers represent 34% of all buyers in the U.S. today, and this proportion has increased quietly yet conservatively over a three-year period. Another aspect of THP that we remain excited about is the meaningful cash generation projected for this vertical. We plan to redeploy the principal portion of these proceeds into future land homebuilding opportunities to maintain the THP investment balance and to allocate the profits into our REIT-like verticals where we continue to build the base of consistent and stable cash flow.

We usually focus our conversation on THP1 U.S. where we expect $200 million of cash flow to Tricon through 2018. But we want to draw your attention to our other investments in THP, which are going to be major cash contributors as shown on slide 17. For example, Trinity Falls is projected to generate net cash flow to Tricon of over $177 million over the next 10 years on our $74 million initial investment.

In total, we expect THP investment to generate $580 million to Tricon over the next 8 years to 10 years with [ph] the profile of (15:56) cash flow skewed towards the near-term. And I should add, this is before we take into account any management fees and performance fees we might earn. You can see why we call THP the rocket fuel that propels us as we expect this vertical to provide much of the internal cash flow to drive our growth going forward.

Turning to Tricon American Homes on slide 18. We paused acquisitions this quarter in order to allocate capital towards the buyout of the minority interest in the TAH business. This process has also allowed us to hone in on our operations and further stabilize the portfolio.

On slide 19, you can already see improvement of portfolio occupancy as TAH slowed its acquisitions with occupancy moving from 88.9% in Q2 to 91.7% in Q3. As we speak, the occupancy has already improved to 94%, and we are targeting 95% by year-end.

Turnover at TAH has been stable around 30% for the past four quarters proving out the consistency and predictability of our business model. TAH was able to grow rents by 5.1% in Q3, including 4.4% of renewals and 6.3% on new move-ins. These metrics underscore the high-level demand for our rental product allowing us to increase rents while maintaining an occupancy bias. To give you a sense of how incredible the demand is, we received roughly 1000 calls to-date to rent our homes, while we only have 200 to 300 homes available at any given time.

Our year-to-date operating margin of 60% remained consistent with the full-year of 2015 and is in line with management's full year expectations given the current geographic mix of the portfolio. For the quarter itself, operating margin improved to 59% compared to 56% in Q3 of 2015. It still represents a seasonal low, its repair and maintenance expenses tend to rise in the hot summer months to the HVAC repairs.

Beyond these operating results, we've had a very exciting couple of months at TAH. To begin with, TAH closed its second securitization transaction, was able to repatriate roughly $60 million of equity back to Tricon by borrowing against the incremental value arising from the meaningful home price appreciation in its portfolio.

We were able to secure financing at a very attractive blended rate of 3.59%, which is basically the same as the floating rate on the existing warehouse facility, but at a fixed rate locked-in for five years. Secondly, as we alluded last quarter, TAH has recently completed the buyout of over 90% of the minority interest held by legacy operating partners in the business, giving it full control over its business and its destiny. We paid a total price of $65.7 million, which included three components.

One, the minority interest in the fair value of the homes; two, the embedded performance fees to the minority interest partners which are already being accrued on TAH's balance sheet every quarter; and three, the minority interest share of TAH's operating company, which was determined based on the foregone asset management fees that would have been paid to the operating partners over the remaining life of the partnership agreements.

We believe the cost of this transaction is very reasonable compared to other internalizations and we expect the transaction to be immediately accretive to Tricon's earnings. If you look to slide 20, you can see that the minority interest had negative impact of $10.6 million on TAH's investment income over the past nine months, a significant expense that will no longer be incurred.

To put this in perspective, if you annualize the foregone investment income and multiply it by the 92% portion we just acquired and then divide by the acquisition price, you will arrive at a nearly 20% return on investment, which we [ph] view (19:27) to be a very attractive return.

From a capital allocation perspective instead of buying new homes in Q3 and Q4. We are simply buying stake in our own homes, which we know well, are renovated to our standard and are cash flowing. In the short term by focusing our capital on the buyout and not acquiring new vacant homes, we're able to stabilize our business and focus solely on operations. We are also ultimately going to eliminate 13 different operating entities, which will greatly simplify the reporting structure and administration of the business.

Looking ahead, one of the most impactful initiatives TAH is undergoing is the internalization of repairs and maintenance. While TAH currently administers the repairs and maintenance function in-house, it relies on outside contractors such as electricians and plumbers to actually complete the service calls.

TAH has been running a pilot project in Atlanta for several months, now and expect it to roll its own service crews to nearly all of its market by mid-2017 with a goal performing 60% to 70% of [indiscernible] (20:24) in-house by year-end 2017. Based on initial pilot test results, we expect TAH to capture meaningful cost savings, while at the same time improving resident relations and customer service by sending our own trained employees into our residence homes as opposed to the third-party vendors.

Turning our attention to Tricon Lifestyle Communities on slide 21. In Q3, TLC acquired its 11 parks in Mesa, Arizona for approximately $9 million. The new park called Brighthaven is an age-restricted community of 177 pads, including primarily manufactured home residents alongside a small seasonal resident base. Brighthaven had occupancy of 86.4% at the end of Q3 and implemented an initial rent increase of 4% during the quarter.

As you can see on slide 22, with this acquisition, TLCs portfolio occupancy increased to 72.5% compared to 69.8% in the June quarter. If we remove the seasonal component, TLCs long-term occupancy also improved to 70%, compared to 67.7% in Q2.

Operating margin in Q3 was 56% compared to 57% in Q2, with both quarters reflecting seasonal weakness in occupancy during the summer months. Operating margin is also lower than our long-term targets as a result of adding nine parks in the past three quarters, which have yet to be enhanced and repositioned.

In Q3, TLC began the capital improvement process of these parks with similar scope of work as Longhaven and Skyhaven. The improvements were expected to be complete in early 2017 and to lead to an improved occupancy and margin over time.

In terms of the acquisition pipeline, we continue to evaluate large and small acquisitions as we seek to build TLC towards a scale portfolio that can ultimately attract the interest of third party investors. We have one meaningful acquisition that is expected to close by year-end, which would expand TLCs presence from Arizona into California. An important factor working in our favor in building out this portfolio is the support of lending environment for manufactured housing communities.

Lenders in this sector such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, which are mandated to finance affordable housing, are often long-term fixed-rate loans that are based on near historically low treasury yields. These loans typically include an amortization holiday, with interest-only payments in the first few years. As of Q3, our MHC loans had a blended average fixed-rate interest rate of 4.3% and a 63% loan-to-cost ratio.

Current pricing on similar loans is approximately 25 basis points to 50 basis points lower in the 3.5% to 4% range, which compares very favorably to our average acquisition cap rate of 6.1% in the TLC portfolio.

Our fourth product on Page 23, Tricon Luxury Residences continued to advance on the two U.S. and three Canadian projects under development. The two U.S. projects are both tracking to budget and advancing on schedule. You can see on slide 24 pictures of The McKenzie currently under construction and with concrete formwork now moving above grade. In Canada, TLRs three projects in Toronto are also tracking as expected. As you can see from the photos of The Selby, construction has surpassed grade with formwork now completed up to the third floor. The project continues to progress well with the construction schedule on budget as per our original underwriting, and approximately 70% of the hard cost now secured.

The second project, 57 Spadina, remains in the design stage with a recent submission for site plan approval. Construction is scheduled to commence in January 2018. And Scrivener Square, the most recent acquisition remains in the initial planning stage. We are currently collaborating with local community members and stakeholders to define a project, and we'll be holding an international design competition for the proposed development. We are hoping to reveal the preliminary design next year.

We remain very encouraged by TLRs existing presence in Dallas and Toronto. Both cities are seeing tremendous population growth, job creation and strong rental growth as you can see on Slide 25. In Dallas, average rents increased by 6% since last year, while Toronto has seen a whopping 10% increase. This bodes well for our underwriting, which typically factors in at 2% to 3% rent growth.

Looking ahead to growth, as mentioned last quarter, we remain on the sidelines with respect to additional U.S. investments given tighter lending conditions for multifamily development and that construction costs continue to escalate, making targeted returns more difficult to achieve. While we remain happy with the U.S. projects we have in place, the focus on new investments will remain in Canada where we expect to add another two projects next year.

TLR is a relatively new vertical for us, but we wanted to give everyone an appreciation of its potential financial impact to Tricon on slide 26. In Section 4.4 of our new MD&A and on this slide, we present the total projected cost of TLRs buildings upon completion as being $391 million. This excludes Scrivener Square, where the development plans have yet to commence.

We generally underwrite these projects to a development yield of about 6% on average with slightly lower yields in Canada and higher yields in the U.S., which translates into approximately $10 million of potential NOI to TLR upon lease out, given its current ownership stake in the projects. As a result, the projects should meaningfully enhance Tricon's proportion of recurring revenues.

In addition, we see the potential for significant valuation markup on TLRs investment. Today's market cap rates are generally 150 basis points lower than our underwritten average yield of 5.8%, which implies a market-based cap rate of 4.3%. If you apply that 4.3% cap rate to the expected NOI of these properties, you arrive at a potential gain of $133 million, of which 45% is TLR's ownership portion. In dollar terms, the gain equates to about $60 million, which is basically a double on the projected equity investment of $68 million in these projects.

Moving on to our Private Funds & Advisory business, I'd first like to touch upon the Johnson business on slide 28. In Q3, lot sales for homebuilders decreased by 18% year-over-year mainly as a result of the successful launch of the Harvest Green master plan in the prior year period. Note that launch events in new communities or new phases in existing communities will often make quarter-to-quarter comparisons difficult, which is why we tend to focus more on the annual trends.

In addition, lot sales can vary widely from actual home sales since builders often take down large sections of loss upfront. As such, we generally look to home sales to monitor trends, since these are generally less volatile and tend to be a good predictor of future lot sales activity. In this regard, homes sold within Johnson communities this quarter are up 15% year-over-year, which is indicative of ongoing community count growth and the consistent demand for new homes in Johnson communities.

On that note, our most recent data from the Cross Creek Ranch master plan shows a 22% increase in year-to-date home sales versus last year, which is a phenomenal result in the context of the softer housing market in Houston. I'd also like to take this opportunity to highlight the strength of the Johnson business model for Tricon. Johnson currently operates 15 active master plan communities including four of the top-30 master plan communities in the United States with Trinity Falls and Viridian poised to be additional contenders in the top-50 next year. Of the 15 communities, only four are principal co-investments of Tricon through the THP business and the remainder are financed by other investors. As an owner in Johnson, Tricon benefits from the receipt of contractual fees on all lots and land sold across the Johnson portfolio regardless of whether we have an ownership interest in the underlying real estate. These fees are generally in the range of 3% to 5% of lot revenues.

This model allows us to leverage the Johnson brand with other property owners and investors to grow revenue and earnings for Tricon without the need to always invest significant amounts of our own capital into new communities.

Another aspect of the Private Funds & Advisory business I'd like to highlight is performance fees. During the third quarter, we earned performance fees from Five St. Joseph, a Toronto condominium development within THP2 Canada that is nearing completion. The process is expected to achieve an annualized IRR of 15% and is a good example of THPs ability to execute on projects with attractive returns to both Tricon and its third-party investors.

As we look ahead, we expect performance fee to become a meaningful contributor to revenues over the coming years. Rather than having you guess the quantum of performance fees Tricon tends to make from its third-party investments, we decided to disclose the figures as part of our revised MD&A as presented in slide 29.

In total, based on Q3 return estimates, we expect to recognize about $116 million of performance fees over the next eight years to 10 years, making these fees a potentially meaningful contributor to our earnings over time.

In conclusion, Q3 was marked by strong AUM growth as well as investment income growth across all our verticals, which translated into very healthy earnings per share this quarter. We remain enthusiastic about the growth prospects for a diversified housing platform and are encouraged by the robust trends we continue to see in the U.S. housing market which is still in the expansionary phase.

I also want to thank Wissam and his team for all the hard work in revamping our MD&A. We hope that the investment community embraces our new reporting format and finds our news disclosures helpful and servicing the value we see in our shares.

With that I will pass the call back to the operator to take questions and we'll be joined by other members of our senior management team, including Jonathan Ellenzweig, Craig Mode, Adrian Rocca and Kevin Baldridge. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. Just had a question. We've obviously had the U.S. election that happened earlier in the week and then also we had in Canada some of the changes announced by the Department of Finance. Just wanted to get your take on what that means for your various business verticals.

Yeah. Sure, Jeff. Well, I think the first thing I would say is that, I mean from what we can discern from his policies, and certainly his economic policy, he seems to be intent on lowering taxes and adding fiscal stimulus through infrastructure spending. And he does have obviously the – he has Republican support in the Congress. So we'll see whether – how much he is actually able to enact in terms of those ideas.

But if he is able to do that, I would say that those are inflationary policies. And our land and housing business is set up to benefit from inflation. A lot of our investors or pension funds will invest in our land business because they believe land is an inflation – is a hedge against inflation. And obviously, inflation will lead to higher home prices, which is obviously great for a single-family rental business obviously through higher – our HPA, we are able to borrow against that value and then repatriate capital back to the business and continue to grow. So those are good things, if they happen.

We obviously, although we have a Canadian ticker we are essentially an American company and we are an American taxpayer. So if there are lower corporate tax rates, that is a boon for Tricon, definitely for Land and Homebuilding business, which has a less efficient tax structure and obviously I think is a benefit for the entire U.S. economy.

So I think – maybe North of the border here, I'm taking more of a contrarian view, but those economic policies, as long as they don't lead to hyperinflation would be a positive thing I think for Tricon's Land and Homebuilding business. In Canada, the change in the mortgage finance worlds I think largely makes affordability an even bigger problem. They're trying to slow down home prices, but I actually think it's going to lead to less affordability because in return I think the banks and lenders are going to have to raise rates. And so that's a real problem that we've identified and that's why in Canada our focus is on multi-family rental, because we've seen this in the U.S., when there's an affordability crisis, people, certainly young people are going to have to rent for longer. And so we think we are uniquely positioned with our multifamily brand here, Tricon Luxury Residences to take advantage of that. And we're already seeing, as I said, some very impressive rent gains in Toronto, which is indicative of this affordability problem.

Okay. Thanks. And the other question I had was on – you've been growing your business quite significantly over the past few years and you've added head count as a result. I just wanted to get a sense from you in terms of, when you kind of take a look at your organization right now, kind of where you see it? Are there other – are there areas that you need to kind of fill some gaps in? And also from a G&A perspective for stuff like systems or other stuff, are there other things that you need to have, or do you have that scalability that you need to take yourself through the next couple of years?

Yes. So, I think we always try to plan ahead, Geoff. And we don't want to find ourselves in a reactive situation where things look through the cracks. We're always planning to staff up ahead of future growth, and we've been doing that all along.

I would say, we're pretty good in terms of I think our head count certainly at the corporate level. I think where we do need to add is potentially with the private funds person. We do want to increase our ability to raise third-party capital, especially as our verticals become stable – our income producing verticals. And so I think, ultimately having a private funds person and – and obviously we have seen companies like Brookfield or Blackstone ultimately build big departments. But I think that's something we could benefit from. We might need to ultimately hire a Chief Marketing Officer as we've obviously vertically integrated and many of our verticals are now more consumer-facing.

So I think those are opportunities we've identified. But apart from that we are in very good shape. At the TAH level, for example, we now have roughly 250 employees. So we've done a lot of hiring there and we are well positioned to continue to grow. And we have made heavy investments in technology. We implemented Yardi at TAH and we are investing in our technology here at Tricon as well.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Rothschild from Canaccord. Please go ahead.

Thanks and good morning guys.

Hey, Mark.

Maybe on TAH buying up the partners, clearly it looks like a proper and good investment for Tricon. Can you just give a little more color on what motivated the partners? What mechanisms you were able to use to encourage or push them towards selling to you? How that process works.

Yes. Well, just to remind you, when we got into the business we entered partnership agreements with those operators and they have a term of five years. So they were essentially going to mature early next year. So we were going to have to deal with it sooner than later. The other thing I would say is our partners had substantial amounts of their own capital invested in this business, and so they were obviously looking to redeploy that capital and welcome the liquidity event. The other thing is I think they recognized and we can collectively recognized how difficult it was to administer a business with literally 13 different operating entities. It made it harder for us to arrange financing through securitization, and so we all knew that it would be inevitable that it made sense for us to take out the operating partners, and control our own destiny.

Okay. Great. That make sense. And with the new securitization, how much capacity do you have to grow this business now without requiring maybe additional equity from other parts of Tricon or external equity?

Well, I mean if you look at the equity, I mean honestly, there's a lot of different ways to look at this, but I think if you look at the equity that we've repatriated and then you now look at the new capacity, the additional capacity in our warehouse line, I think if you run through the math depending on what you assume for the average home price, call it, $130,000 to $150,000, it basically allows us another full year of growth. And our current – our 2017 business plan assumes that we'll buy 400 homes per quarter. So again that gives us a lot of runway as we continue to add.

And would you feel comfortable levering up [indiscernible] (36:56) to that extent?

Yeah. I mean we're comfortable in the TAH vertical going to 70%. Our acquisition facility allows us to [ph] board (37:07) 70% in cost. And then, obviously through securitization, we can [ph] board (37:11) roughly 77% of value. So home prices move up, that's how we're able to repatriate equity. But you have to remember that we take a holistic view of leverage, and THP were essentially using virtually no leverage. So we're really looking to blend and make sure we don't get [indiscernible] (37:27)

Okay. And then, just lastly [indiscernible] (37:31) your portfolio obviously Texas is doing quite well, as far as Dallas goes and even some of your projects there in Houston have been well even with some of the staffing that's been in that market. Are there new markets in the U.S. that you're I think more focused on or are you going to continue to focus on growing in Texas?

Well, I mean if you look at our different businesses, really THP and TAH were in 14 different markets. And so I don't really think we need to expand into new markets. I mean we could for example in single-family rental ultimately going into a place like Orlando. I mean there's other markets we [ph] get out (38:08) on the margin. But in general, we've already identified, I think, the markets that have the best fundamentals, the best population growth and job growth, and obviously, we want to maintain good diversity. Even though Texas and Dallas is red-hot and even though Houston is performing better than I think anyone would have thought, we certainly believe in diversification. We don't want to put too much concentration to any one market.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks Mark.

Your next question comes from Lorne Kalmar from TD. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning.

Good morning.

Just a quick question on the [indiscernible] (38:48) value gains, were there any particular markets that contributed more than others?

Not really. I mean I would say it was pretty even across the board. Obviously, there's a couple of – there might be 1% or 2% different from market to market but on the whole, we're seeing very good home price appreciation across the board.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from Stephen MacLeod from BMO. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning.

Hi, Steve.

Hi. Just on the TAH business, I just want to clarify what is your current minority interest position or what's the proportion of minority interest outstanding today? Are you fully [indiscernible] (39:38)

Right. No, no. So when we talked about the buyout at $65.7 million, that's for 92%. So we still have a little bit of work to do. We've got two more partners and we're not making any promises but we're hoping to get them wrapped up by the end of the year as well.

So that's 92% of the minority interest position that you just bought?

Correct.

Okay. And then, we obviously saw the benefit of sort of the slower home buying activity in the quarter. Can you talk about whether that accelerated post-quarter? And then how many homes you expect to purchase in Q4? Is it back to 400 homes or does that sort of trickle into Q1 2017?

No. Again from a capital allocation perspective, we decided that rather than buying new homes in Q3 and Q4, Steve, that we would allocate the capital [inaudible] (40:29) minority interest. You should not expect any new acquisitions in Q4. And as I said, if you look at our employees occupancy today, it's already grown to 94%.

Okay. That's great. And then in terms of the TLC business you mentioned that you had sort of an acquisition in the pipeline that would expand your business into California. Can you talk a little bit about if there are any major differences between the California market and where you are currently in Arizona?

What I will tell you is that we are going to be buying I think a higher quality portfolio. I think what we own in Phoenix is really kind of 3 Star to 3.5 Star parks, (41:09) and obviously, you've seen that we've wanted to add value to those parks so we can grow occupancy and rent. The portfolio that we're looking at in California is more stabilized. It's got higher occupancy and I would characterize it more as 4 Star parks. And obviously, we view this as very positive because we've been looking to diversify, and I think this really adds a lot of value to the overall portfolio. So I can't really tell you a lot more than that but that's where we're at.

Okay. That's great. And then just one last one. In terms of the cash flows that you expect to receive in from THP1 U.S., is that $100 million – the $200 million you expect, is that all principal that you would expect to deploy or is it only a certain portion of that principal that you will deploy?

No, we're going to redeploy all of it. It's just a question of how we do that, right, and do we take that $200 million and allocate it back into land and homebuilding or do we allocate it towards the more REIT like or income producing verticals. So that is kind of a work in progress. But I think as we said in our prepared remarks, we do want to allocate a good amount of that to the REIT like businesses, so we can continue to grow and generate more stable cash flow.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan from GMP. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Gary, you mentioned internalizing significant part of your R&M crew. How do you think that translates into margin improvement or is that just more of a customer service impact? Maybe you could share what your experience was with respect to the pilot project that you did.

No. I think there will be an economic benefit, Jimmy, although it's too early to see what that is. But I can tell you from our pilot project in Atlanta, we felt that we were able to save 20% of our R&M budget. So right now R&M is roughly 12% of revenues. And if you're able to save 20% of that, you're going to add roughly 2% to your margin. So there's a real opportunity to grow the margin there over time. This is a nickels and dimes business, so that's very meaningful cash flow.

Obviously, from a customer service perspective, one of the issues [indiscernible] (43:35) being more difficult to control your cost is that when third parties go into our homes, they're given a prescribed list of what they can do. And a resident say, well, now that you're here, maybe you can help me fix the screen door for example, and the third-party vendor would say sorry we can't do that. So that's not great customer service, and we can do it ourselves. We can fix all the issues for a resident in their home and then we don't need to come back. So I think it's our game-changer for us. And we're going to implement it over the course of 2017 or good amount of it.

Okay. All right. And then just on the new disclosed performance fees, would you have a – sort of what would that cash distribution profile look like? You did that with THP, just wondering like you mentioned over 8 years to 10 years but is that skewed evenly or...?

Not really. I mean it's more back-ended, Jimmy, and we're not – because this obviously can move quite substantially from quarter-to-quarter depending on how our estimates change, or projects get pushed forward or backward, we [indiscernible] (44:45) give the distribution profile. But I would say it is skewed towards the back-end. We should expect to see some nominal performance fees next year and larger amounts in 2018 and 2019 based on what we know today.

Okay. Fair enough. And lastly, just going back to that THP, the new disclosure on the projected distributions. So how do we think about – so you mentioned that part of the proceeds from THP1 U.S. could go towards other verticals. But is the idea that the goal is to maintain that distribution profile such that cash distribution from shorter-term investment will fund equity commitment on longer-term investment, so that business become somewhat of a self funding business?

Yeah.

Is that sort of kind of part of the thinking or is it just that near-term cash [indiscernible] (45:41) reallocated somewhere else?

Yeah. Well, I would think about it this way. I mean, if you look at – the reason we're now showing you – we're showing you two new things that [ph] you're (45:50) going to report and how much capital we currently invested in the business as opposed to just the fair value. And also what we project the future distributions net of advances to be. So you can essentially look at a multiple between those two numbers. And I think we're telling you right now, we expect that number to be about two times, which means we're essentially going to double our capital.

So the idea at this point in time, this is just somewhat crude, but we would reinvest the principal back into the business, so we basically maintain those balances and then we take the profits which is – and put it into the other income producing vertical. So I'm not sure if that makes sense. But, again, we're trying to double. So the 1.0 would go into THP and the other 1.0 would go into the income or REIT like verticals.

Okay. Got it. Okay. Thank you.

Okay. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Dean Wilkinson from CIBC. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Hi, Dean.

Gary, just on the acquisition of those minority interests, are the fees that you expect to save from that all below the line – I guess the question is does it impact the NOI margin?

No, not really.

No? So the...

Yeah. [indiscernible] (47:11) income, not so much of the NOI.

Okay. So the operations number is actually G&A, not operations of the assets itself?

Yeah. I mean I'm not going to say there's no impact on the NOI because obviously the operators are getting their pro-rata share of whatever operating income there is. But the vast majority of those savings are really below the line, in fact, investment income and a lot of it's obviously coming from the HPA or the fair value gain that otherwise we'd be paying [ph] to them and deem (47:42) performance fees.

Okay. Got it. [indiscernible] (47:46)

Yeah. One thing to remember is that I just want to explain this. I mean In our limited partnership agreements with them, they're acting as – when they were acting as GP, they received performance fees and that could be – I can't remember the exact number, but it could be 20% or 25% [ph] over pref. (48:02) So once you clear that [ph] prep, (48:04) which we have, they continue to get 20% or 25%, so it's a significant number. So we're saving that. We're basically stopping that with this.

Right. Got it. And then just on the Cross Creek and we've talked about this before, the volume that went through is probably surprising to everyone, yourselves included. Obviously, evidence of what Johnson's able to achieve down there, was there a change in pricing or has it just been the continual asset mix towards the more affordable stuff?

No. There hasn't been really – there hasn't been a change really in price per front foot or lot. It's more than we've been able to change the mix. And people often criticize Houston and say there's no zoning, well, actually that's been a huge benefit for us because we essentially are the master planner, we are the city, and we can change the product very quickly. And so recognizing last year, two years ago, the things were going to get tougher. We shifted our mix to smaller lot products. So instead of doing 80 foot and 90 foot lots, we're doing more 50 foot lots. That brought the lot price down. It's obviously brought the home price down and that's led to more absorption.

And that's a trend that's continuing?

Yeah. And I think – yeah, it's a trend that's continuing and we've identified it as just a general opportunity across the board because as I said there is lots of so-called Millennials that are now at the beginning – on this trend, they're going to become – they're going to have to ultimately move out of the cities and into more suburban communities as they have families and children. And the key thing in order to support them is going to be affordability. And so we in the industry really need to provide more affordable product, and we can play a major role in that through Johnson by bringing on smaller and more affordable lot product.

And are you finding the same things or adjustments are needed to be made at, say, like a Viridian or is that a little more balanced in that market?

I mean one of the things we loved about Viridian is, is really a [indiscernible] (50:12) I mean we've got a lot of town homes. We've got 20 foot, 30 foot lot product. So we're ready there. The issue for Viridian is, we've had major weather problems at the beginning of last year which has prevented us from putting the lots online. But we're now there and so we should have a very good sales year in 2017. But we've been looking for that. So when we looked at Viridian and Trinity Falls, we're looking for communities that have the ability to sell affordable product.

Perfect. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, Dean.

There are no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back to Gary Berman for closing remarks.

Thank you, Virgil. I would like to thank all of you on this call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in March 2017 when we discuss our results for the fourth quarter of 2016.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.