Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Stephanie Chow — Investor Relations Contact, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
David Berman — Executive Chairman, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Margaret Whelan — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Trevor Johnson — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Kirk, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Fourth Quarter Investor Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Ms. Stephanie Chow, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter and year ending December 31, 2013, which results were set out in a news release we distributed yesterday afternoon. Our financial statements and MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR. Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible by telephone until March 13.

Before we get started, I'll remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our private funds and principal investment vehicles. This information, by its nature, is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent Short Form Prospectus and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR.

With that, I would now like to hand the call over to David Berman, Chairman and CEO.

Thank you, Stephanie, and good morning, everyone. I will start with a summary of this quarter's highlights. Margaret Whelan, our CFO, will then review our key financial metrics, financial results; followed by Gary Berman, Tricon's President and COO, who will provide an overview of our single-family rental, land and homebuilding, and private funds businesses. Other members of our investment team will then join us as we take your questions.

This morning, we announced another strong quarter of financial results, including adjusted EBITDA of CAD 28.2 million for the fourth quarter and CAD 68.8 million for 2013, representing a nearly fivefold annual increase year-over-year for the latter.

This growth was a result of two primary drivers. The first, continued momentum in Tricon American Homes, our single-family rental platform, which owned over 3,200 homes at year-end, and remains on pace to reach 4,000 homes over the course of this year and 5,000 homes next year. This growth will continue to be funded by a dedicated credit facility for the platform, which was upsized to CAD 250 million during the quarter.

Our acquisition program continues to focus on markets with strong, long-term housing fundamentals where we can hit our target yield parameters, including several new markets, which we entered in the second half of 2013, namely, Atlanta, Tampa, San Antonio, and Las Vegas.

We want to have another meaningful uplift in fair market value of CAD 14.6 million this past quarter, representing a 5% to 8% quarterly increase in home prices in most of our key markets and after deducting CAD 8.4 million of capital expenditures.

The second growth driver in our adjusted EBITDA came from our land and homebuilding business, and specifically, the acquisition in the third quarter of a 68.4% interest in Tricon IX. Since closing this transaction in August, Tricon received $21.7 million in cash distributions, which is ahead of our original business plan.

Results for our Private Funds and Advisory business continue to be very stable. Although it remains a challenging fundraising environment, we achieved an additional closing of $32 million for our most recent U.S. residential fund, Tricon XI LP, with two institutional investors, resulting in a final fund size of $334 million, the largest in the company's 26-year history. Furthermore, some large blue chip institutions continue to state their preference for separately managed accounts or joint ventures, and we recently closed on another CAD 80 million investment with a large institutional investor to acquire and develop approximately 2,000 acres of prime land into the large mixed-use master-planned community in Houston, Texas.

This property is located just north of ExxonMobil's new headquarters and The Woodlands, an existing 28,000-acre master-planned community. Although The Woodlands has been one of the top-selling master-planned communities in the United States for the past 30-plus years, it is now running out of developable land, which opens up the market for our property. This transaction and the final close of Tricon XI have increased our AUM to 67% year-over-year to CAD 1.9 billion, the highest in the company's history.

Finally, I'm also pleased to announce that on March 5, our board of directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment [indiscernible] (05:02) CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on March 31. The dividend will be payable on April 15, 2014.

With that, I will now turn our presentation over to Margaret for a summary of how we have performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. Over the last four years, our team has worked diligently to position the company for accelerated growth. This is demonstrated in our 2013 annual results.

Adjusted base revenue of CAD 46.9 million rose 149% year-over-year as we increased our share of investment income post the acquisition of Tricon IX. All rental revenue run by Tricon American Homes continued to accelerate.

In addition, we benefited from contractual fees generated on the final close of Tricon XI and the closing of new separate accounts.

Augmented by the strong revenue growth, our record adjusted EBITDA of CAD 68.8 million increased 500% year-over-year. A positive fair value adjustment in our single-family rental business, as well as Deemed Performance Fees earned from the Tricon IX acquisition also contributed.

These improvements fell to the bottom line as our adjusted net income of CAD 34.7 million increased 413% year-over-year. Despite more than a double in our share count last year, we were pleased to deliver annual adjusted basic EPS and adjusted diluted EPS of CAD 0.57 and CAD 0.47 of 135% and 84%, respectively. In August 2013, we announced a normal course issuer bid, allowing us to buy up to 5% of our fully diluted share count or 4.5 million shares.

While we have not purchased any additional stock in the open market since last summer, we do plan to do so opportunistically. In fact, going forward, share buybacks will likely take precedent over potential dividend increases. Since our 2010 IPO, our asset base has increased almost tenfold to CAD 643 million. From this base, we expect to generate meaningful cash flow in the coming years. As Gary will discuss, we are pursuing many exciting growth opportunities in 2014 and beyond.

We anticipate that these initiatives will be supported with our internally generated cash flow, along with an increase in our corporate credit facility, which we expect to close later this month. Our average ratio remains conservative at 20%.

I will now turn the presentation over to Gary, who will provide some additional insight on our fund management and principal investing businesses.

Thanks, Marge. 2013 has been one of the most productive periods in Tricon's 26-year history as we've substantially bulked up our balance sheet by a major co-investment in Tricon IX, raised approximately CAD 340 million in third-party capital, and exceeded our 2013 target of 3,000 single-family rental homes. As a result, the last 12 months have been truly a transformational period for our company.

I'm going to talk to you about key highlights in our major business lines. Let's start with single-family rental, what we've referred to as Tricon American Homes. For the quarter, our rental revenues were up 20% sequentially, and for the year ending 2013, we earned approximately CAD 9 million of realized income and enjoyed a CAD 32 million fair value uplift for total investment income of CAD 41 million, which is very meaningful as we're obviously focused on total return.

We credit our success to two main factors. First, our hub-and-spoke model where we have partnered with seasoned on-the-ground operators who've been meaningful co-investments alongside of us. And second, our emphasis on quality over quantity, and our acquisition process, so we can generate higher yields and manage throughput.

We are shifting our acquisition program from the West Coast to the East Coast as we follow readily available shadow inventory and continue to target blended net yields or cap rates of 7% plus. We anticipate being able to reach 5,000 homes sometime next year, and we'll continue to finance the acquisitions through our upsized Deutsche Bank credit facility of CAD 250 million.

Our partners have essentially stopped buying in Sacramento, the Bay Area, Inland Empire and Phoenix, these are our original markets, but are now active on what we call our second wave markets, including Las Vegas, Reno, San Antonio and Charlotte. We are also now fully operational in Tampa and Atlanta, and are currently exploring entering other similar markets.

Gross yields have generally come under pressure as a result of underlying home price appreciation. But through our selective [ph] 1D and 2D (09:42) approach, we continue to be able to buy homes with blended gross yields of 12% to 13%, which was our initial targeted range.

Total portfolio occupancy has remained fairly steady at 78% as new leasing has generally been able to keep up with new acquisitions. Again, if we're to stop acquiring or renovating existing homes, we believe we would ultimately achieve a 95% occupancy rate.

We also add that our six-month occupancy declined during the quarter largely as a result of seasonal factors and the continued repositioning of our Charlotte portfolio, but we're already beginning to see a [ph] revamp (10:18) in occupancy in the first quarter of 2014.

Blended margins are also steady to approximately 60%. Although we have limited experience with move-outs, we are seeing turnover rates of roughly 30% to 35%, and net turn cost of about $1,500 per unit, which is in line with our budget. Anecdotally, we have been able to increase rents roughly 2% to 3% for renewals and new move-ins, which is also in line with our current business plan.

In terms of fair market value adjustments, we recorded a lift of $32 million in 2013, which essentially represents the cumulative increase since launching our single-family rental strategy in Q1 of 2012. The $32 million represents an approximately 9% increase on Tricon's gross acquisition basis, which is probably conservative given that, one, the AVM valuation methodology is a lagging indicator; and two, we made significant capital [audio gap] (11:13-11:22) that are reflected in the adjustment.

With that said, the [indiscernible] (11:25) basis. So all-in-all, our single-family rental strategy remains right on track from an acquisition and operational point of view, and we remain optimistic that we will hit our longer-term volume and NOI targets.

Moving on to our land and homebuilding business line. Land and homebuilding business segment really refers to our co-investments we made in various residential development funds in separate accounts, including our 68.4% interest in Tricon IX.

In 2013, we generated nearly CAD 18.5 million of net operating income. Now that excludes Performance Fees, foreign exchange and tax, and it represents a significant 3.3 times increase over 2012 primarily as a result of our majority investment in Tricon IX. Tricon's investment in Tricon IX has already produced CAD 21.7 million of cash flow since our acquisition in August, and we expect it to produce roughly CAD 100 million of net free cash flow to Tricon in 2014, 2015, and 2016 as we harvest the underlying investments. Last year on Tricon IX to fund the loan, we sold 801 lots and homes, which represent approximately 15% of the total portfolio and nearly a 30% increase over 2012 sales.

Our investment in Cross Creek Ranch also continues to outperform and was ranked the 13th top selling master plan in the United States for 2013. Our lot and home prices were up 21% year-over-year, and the project has already distributed nearly CAD 8 million to Tricon in relation to our CAD 14 million investment.

We've also been very impressed with our local partner, Johnson Development, with whom we now have three separate accounts and are excited about the prospect of Grand Lakes, that's a project just north of The Woodlands, where we expect to start more construction at the end of this year.

We believe that we are in the early innings of what could be an extra inning game for U.S. housing as we continue to target and monitor land investments across the Sunbelt. Every time there's a statistical hiccup, like we saw with January starts, or marginal negative news, we view this as an opportunity to accumulate and increase our position in U.S. in land and homebuilding assets.

In our Private Funds and Advisory business, where we provide advisory services and manage capital on behalf of private third-party investor, we had a solid year with approximately CAD 18 million in management fee and GP distribution income, up roughly 32% year-over-year. This growth was driven by the final closing of Tricon XI and continued momentum in our separate account or joint venture business. As we stated earlier, we believe our ability to form these investment vehicles with large institutions and create sidecars for larger fund investments will allow us to smooth out and bolster our AUM growth.

After the acquisition of Tricon IX, we received questions about our ability or intent to raise third-party capital. Well, hopefully, those concerns have been put to rest as we raised approximately CAD 340 million of new private capital in 2013, which more than offset the two-thirds of Tricon IX that we removed from our private fund AUM through the acquisition, the 68% acquisition in Tricon IX. Net-net, our third-party AUM increased 7% in 2013. We are confident that we can exceed this growth in 2014 within separate account and joint venture investment activity in our pipeline.

In terms of our active funds, U.S. land fund Tricon XI is now approximately 50% committed, and we expect the fund to be largely invested by year-end. We are working on a major land investment in Calgary for Tricon XII. And if that transpires, our latest Canadian land and homebuilding fund should be essentially complete. Once these funds are fully invested, we will be in a position to start fundraising for successor investment vehicles. U.S. projected fund returns have been stable to positive year-over-year, while our Canadian fund yields have compressed somewhat as a result of projects being delayed from the difficult financing environment, current issues and weather conditions. That being said, overall profits are more or less intact.

In terms of our new business lines or verticals, over the last 12 months, we spent a significant amount of time analyzing a potential investment in two new related business lines, the first being manufactured housing, the second being multi-family development.

As previously communicated, we view ourselves as a residential real estate specialist with a number of related verticals that target different segments of the market where we can leverage our development experience in land and homebuilding, as well as our operating expertise in single-family rental.

We would like the public market to think of Tricon as a housing brand with related business lines that offer shareholders and limited partners added diversification, and allow us to play across the full spectrum of housing from affordable housing to affordable luxury. In this regard, we are on advance stages of entering the manufactured housing sector. We attracted this strategy for several reasons. First, this is a large fragmented market with less than 2% institutional ownership.

Second, it is a supply-constrained market as it is very difficult to achieve entitlements to build new parks or communities. Third, investment yields are very stable relative to other asset classes, and NOI margins are high as a result of low turnover. The reason for this is that it's prohibitively expensive for tenants to move their homes and, therefore, they tend to stay in place.

And finally, this is an established industry with attractively priced debt capital that is widely available. As for our new multi-family verticals, a number of our existing limited partners have approached us with the idea to create a multi-family development platform in both the U.S. and Canada. We are currently exploring opportunities to acquire institutional quality development sites in markets that we know intimately and are planning to formally launch this new business segment later this year or early next year.

In conclusion, as David discussed last quarter, Tricon continues to pursue opportunistic residential real estate investments across the United States and Canada. We believe there our current platforms of financing single-family homes and residential development are just a start. And with time, we will enter into related and complementary business lines, while continuing to grow our private funds business.

We look forward to adding value for our shareholders in the quarters and years to come, and appreciate your faith in the company and our management team.

We now welcome questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Gary, I know you talked about, with the third-party AUM, that you think you can grow that in 2014. The way I read it was you can increase it in 2014 as you did in 2013. And maybe just around your disclosure around the deal pipeline of about CAD 1 billion, if you have some color that you can provide in terms of how much of that likely you would fund at some point, when you kind of see that timing happening, whether or not it's first half of 2014, second half of 2014 or 2015, as well as maybe just is it Canada or is it, I suspect, mostly in the U.S.?

Sure. Sure, Geoff. Well, first of all, that CAD 1 billion pipeline does ebb and flow. But if we think about that in terms of that context of CAD 1 billion, we essentially have roughly, call it, about another CAD 150 million of capacity in Tricon XI, our U.S. fund. And so we would need to put, first, CAD 150 million or so in Tricon XI. And once that fund is essentially fully invested, we can then go and raise a successor investment vehicle for Tricon XI, and I would suspect that we'll do that later this year.

Now, in terms of the rest of that capital, we can take advantage of that in the interim by either doing sidecars. In other words, if we make investments that we feel are too large for the fund, we can then obtain co-investments from our existing major limited partners or other third parties to continue to grow our AUM.

And then we also have the ability to enter into related joint ventures or separate accounts. So, we feel there's lots of different ways for us to grow our AUM in terms of where we're seeing better deal flow, certainly in the United States. We just think there's better risk-adjusted opportunities in that market. And so you'll continue to see the majority of the growth take place in the U.S.

The exception, I would say, is Alberta. Alberta was hard hit in 2007, 2009. It's coming back. The macro fundamentals are rock-solid. So as I said, we are looking in a major investment in Alberta that if it happens, we'll complete Tricon XII.

And then, I would say, in terms of Tricon XII, we probably will not go out right away with the successor investment vehicle for Tricon XII, but we will look at other ways of growing our Canadian AUM. And that's where we referenced our development-oriented, multi-family platform.

Okay. And maybe just in terms of looking at that deal pipeline, when you had pipelines in the past and how it's evolved, and you did mention it ebbs and flows, is it a matter of just ultimately timing that these deals will likely get done, or is there – I'm just trying to get a sense as to the CAD 1 billion, how much that ultimately will likely come through at some point?

Yes. Right. So first of all, I would say, our pipeline's never been larger. So that is definitely a very positive indicator, but by no means is that $1 billion certain. It is typically proprietary, meaning that our local partners have those deals in their sight, but we obviously do a lot of due diligence. And in some cases, we choose to pass on those deals, and then they often will get replaced with other opportunities.

So that's what I mean by ebbing and flowing. But at this point in time – and we're seeing some very attractive major land opportunities, and so you should expect us to continue to be acquisitive.

Okay. And the final question I had was just on the Tricon IX investment you had. I think you guys were talking about you made, potentially with some of your reinvestments, maybe changed what was the original business plan in terms of maybe doing more development than initially expected. Have you guys got an update on that? And how much more capital would that potentially be?

Well, I don't think at this point – nothing has really changed since we first announced the acquisition of our majority interest in Tricon IX. Remember that time, we intended to potentially build out Pine & Franklin in San Francisco. We are going to be doing that. And we also mentioned that we would be potentially building out for Faria Preserve. We have not made a decision on that yet. We're still waiting for entitlements, which should take place in, hopefully, Q2 or Q3; and at that point, we'll make a final decision.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Geoff.

The next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning. Just a couple of questions on the SFR business. I noticed the – I mean, the 7% fair value at the end of the quarter was pretty significant. The market itself, at least according to our numbers, are tracking about 3% from Q3 to Q4. I wondered if there's anything happened in the quarter or at this particular segment within which you operate the SFR business that's generating a higher price gain that we normally see for the average.

And then secondly on the SFR in terms of the seasonality of the business, was it – was there a lot sort of the weather-related in December and maybe a little bit more color on how that's tracking so far?

Yeah. Hi, Jimmy. So first of all, in terms of HPA or the AVM, remember that, that AVM methodology is a lagging indicator, so it's not necessarily reflective of other metrics or indices that would be showing growth in Q3 to Q4. So, that would not be an apples-to-apples comparison. We saw essentially 5% to 8% growth over the majority of our market. So, it wasn't related to any one specific market.

I would not – I think it would be very difficult for us to replicate that going forward, that's a big increase. But we also mentioned in our remarks that in terms of the overall increases, it's only about 9% on the entire gross acquisition basis. So, although we did see a very good uplift in Q4, it's obviously very difficult for us to predict this. So, it would be tough for us to give you guidance on it.

In terms of seasonality, leasing is definitely seasonal and it normally is difficult to lease up at the end of the year, kind of post Thanksgiving into the holidays, you typically witness during that period of time. So, we would expect that to take place in the future. We're already seeing a pickup in our occupancy in January and February, so it's really kind of reverting back to normal. So, we don't think there's anything to be concerned about there.

Yeah. [indiscernible]

(25:03) the holidays.

Okay. And can you give us an update on the securitization process? And I think last time, you talked about running a bit of a parallel system and looking at potentially doing secured debt as well or a regular mortgage on the SFR portfolio.

Yeah, sure. We're going to continue to explore all options on the debt front. In terms of our current Deutsche Bank facility of CAD 250 million, we've drawn as of Q4, about 50% of that. And we really feel that we probably have to have a borrowing base closer to CAD 200 million to CAD 250 million before it's really interesting for the CMBS market.

So, really, if we do end up securitizing, it's going to be, I would say, a second half and probably end of second half event just given that we need to have critical mass, and we're not quite there yet. But we continue to meet with the rating agencies and prepare ourselves for that potential event.

Okay. And what about the possibility of just getting a regular mortgage?

That's something we'll explore, but it will really come down to what is the difference in costs. We would first need to determine, once we're ready, where we think we can borrow at in terms of securitization and how much more we'd have to pay for a term loan. So, it's just something we're going to have to decide once we have more information.

Okay. I got a few more, but I'll circle back.

Okay. Thanks.

The next question comes from Jenny Ma from Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Just with regards to the investment income from Tricon IX, it seems they've been pretty steady for the last couple of quarters. But looking forward, is there any element of seasonality in terms of lot and home sales?

Yeah. There definitely can be seasonality, and also any underlying business plans, you definitely can have variations. Again, it's something that is difficult to predict because you could have – you think you're going to have sales take place in one quarter on your business plan and then, for various reasons, weather or who knows, they could get moved to another quarter.

So, we should expect some variations in terms of the income. That being said, we do have, I think, pretty good visibility into the overall cash flow. And so, Jenny, it's something that is difficult to predict quarter-to-quarter. But I would say, over two quarters or three quarters or over a year, we have very good visibility into the amount of cash flow because essentially, all of the projects in Tricon IX are now currently selling homes and lots. As we said, we sold 800 units in 2013, and we're continuing to sell now. So, it's just – I would just say, it's tough to predict quarter-to-quarter, but on the whole, it's looking very good.

Okay. That's fine. With regards to your newer strategies, the MHC and multi-family development, can you talk a little bit about the geography of where you see opportunities for MHC, in particular? And then secondarily, when you think of the MHC and the multi-family development, what's the strategy there? Is it really to develop and be landlords for a few years throughout the life of the fund, or is it develop and sell immediately?

Okay. Sure. So, in terms of U.S. manufactured housing, which is what we would focus on, it's going to be the same markets we're currently in, in terms of our land and homebuilding business and single-family rental, that's the Sunbelt, it's the smile states. So, it's California, Arizona, Florida. We'll also look probably at Georgia, Nevada, maybe Colorado. It's the places where the U.S. population is growing, where people are moving, where we're seeing the best job growth, and where we already have critical mass. So, it's actually easier for us to manage those markets. So, there's going to be no change there. We're not going to be looking at chase yield and go into the Mid-West, for example. We're going to focus on the markets that we think have the most liquidity and growth.

On the – in terms of multi-family, I think the focus in the short term will probably be more in Canada. We think that there's a good opportunity to create a Class A special purpose rental and multi-family platform in Canada. It does not exist, so we'd have to build this really through development. We've been approached, as I said, by a couple of major institutions to do this, and we're actively looking for sites.

The economics are good. We think we can generate probably high 5% development yields, which is obviously accretive given to where the investment market is and the financing market. The key thing for us now is just buying the right sites. So I would say multi-family will probably start in Canada, and then over time, it will probably migrate also to the U.S. Sunbelt.

When you're talking about multi-family in Canada, are you looking to create condo quality rentals?

Exactly.

Okay.

Exactly. But obviously, in a program that's more, what I'd say programmatic, and where there's really more of an emphasis on property management, we feel there's a big opportunity there because right now in terms of Class A product, it's really just provided for condos where individual investors rent those to tenants. We feel there can be an opportunity to create an actual brand, so to speak, that's professionally managed, which would offer a better value proposition to tenants.

So in terms of the way we will capitalize those, in terms of manufactured housing, similar to single-family rental, we will probably do this off of our balance sheet to begin with to get some scale. We think we can fund this internally. And then once we've achieved critical scale, we'll probably look to grow it by bringing in third-party capital.

Two of our largest institutional partners in Canada are very active in manufactured housing in Canada, so there are potential groups we could talk to in terms of bringing in third-party capital. We have not had those conversations yet, but that's in the back of our mind. And then in terms of multi-family development, because we've been directly approached by institutions, pension plans, we'll probably start that right away in a kind of separate account or fund format.

Okay.

And we will co-invest in that obviously.

Okay. Can you talk a little bit about, I guess, the development process for multi – sorry, for MHCs versus land development in terms of timeline and the intensity involved in creating those?

Sure. In terms of manufactured housing, we have no intent to develop any new parks or communities. It is very difficult to do that, to get entitlements to do that. So the opportunity is actually to go in and buy existing three- to four-star parks, and then add value by repositioning them. It's more of a value-added strategy for manufactured housing.

In a sense, they're complementary because in our land and home building business, we create new developments. We essentially manufacture lots and then sell those to homebuilders. In this business, the manufactured housing, we'd be buying existing pads and then just renting them to consumers. So they're related, but a little bit different.

Okay. Okay. Great. All right. I'll turn it back. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Trevor Johnson from National Bank. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, folks. Can you give us a sense as to how much more home price appreciation may have to happen to potentially price you out of your active eastern markets for Tricon American Homes?

Yes. Hi, Trevor. That's a difficult question to answer. Well, I could tell you that we've been priced out of our original kind of West Coast markets with roughly – again, not based on our AVM methodology, but if you look at kind of the Case-Shiller Index or other metrics, we've seen probably 30% home price appreciation there off the trough, and that's basically priced us out at 7% to 8% net yields.

So, I would say if we use that as a rule of thumb, we'll probably need to see similar appreciation in places like Atlanta and Charlotte before we're priced out of those markets at these yields.

And can you just talk about the profitability of Tricon American Homes, just particularly with regards to property taxes and rental expense, which seem a little bit higher this quarter?

Jon, do you want to address that?

Sure. Trevor, are you talking about the profit margin related to the business this quarter?

Perfect.

So, yeah, if you look, there is a slight decline in profit margin from 62% to 60%. As we've stated in the past, we expect that over the long run, this is around a 60% profit margin business. There might be some fluctuations, in particular as we ramp up the portfolio. For example, we expense leasing commissions. So, if we lease a lot of homes, which means we might have had a lot of acquisitions in the previous quarter, the margin would go down a little bit. But over the long run, we expect it to stabilize.

In terms of renovation expense, that line item really captures maintenance and some CapEx that's spent on homes after they're already in service. And that will just fluctuate, in part, seasonally and just fluctuate a little bit from quarter-to-quarter. Similarly, property taxes, as we enter different markets, for example, San Antonio, that's a market where there are higher property taxes. So, the property tax line item, as a percentage of revenue, might fluctuate, depending what markets we enter or exit.

Great. And then just lastly, how do you see the inventory home strategy winding down through 2014?

Jon, I'll give that to you as well.

Sure. We expect that really, by the end of 2014, by and large, we'll be out of that strategy. That was something we entered opportunistically when we launched this platform, in part because there is an opportunity to buy sort of the higher priced homes, create value, and sell or flip some. Now, as we've continued to grow our rental portfolio, we find that we're better focusing our efforts and our time on that platform, which we view is the growth engine for the business. So I would expect that over the course of 2014, we would sell the remaining inventory homes.

Okay. Thanks very much, folks.

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just a couple of quick follow-ups on the new vertical. So on the MHC business, can you give us a sense of what you think the initial investment will be and the timing of that? And then in terms of the multi-family development in Canada, I guess it sounds to me that you've already identified the development partner or a property management company to go ahead with this strategy.

So, Jimmy, on manufactured housing, I would expect that it will probably be more of, again, like an early second half event. And as we look at acquisitions, I would expect that we'll probably invest about CAD 20 million to CAD 30 million of equity in 2014. And obviously we'll leverage the underlying investment, call it anywhere from 60% to 70%. So that would be our – now, this is still, I would say somewhat preliminary. So – but that would be the guidance I would give you for manufactured housing.

In terms of multi-family, we would probably continue – we have had discussions, as I said, with different pension plans and potential property managers. That's something we're still working on. In terms of building it, we would follow a similar program that we have in the past with condos, where we would work with local best-in-class developers to build it. Once those projects are complete, we would then turn them over to our property manager.

Okay. So you mentioned [ph] high-five (37:31) development yield on that. And what would you expect in terms of an IRR on the MHC business that you've been targeting?

So in both strategies, we'd be looking for 15% to 20% returns to Tricon. And we might achieve that in a number of different ways, obviously, from underlying investment income, but also from kind of fee income that we would generate from managing any kind of third party capital. But we're looking for 15% to 20% IRRs in both. In terms of cap rates in manufactured housing, we'd be targeting cap rates probably of about 6% to 7% for three- to four-star parks.

Okay. And then just lastly on the AUM business. So if I were to look out on – for the balance of this year, so you've more than made up the AUM you've lost on the fund IX. Is that – would you say that's a fair volume in terms of new AUM, whether it be separate accounts or a new fund that we should be assuming for 2014?

It's hard to say because it would really – it may depend on us raising the successor funds at Tricon XI. And as you know, even though we may start fundraising later this year, by the time you actually have a close, it could move into 2015. So I'm confident about the numbers, it's just harder to predict the actual timing. And the separate accounts, Jimmy, we feel very good the ability to create more joint ventures in separate accounts. But it obviously depends on us having those specific deals and the timing of those deals. But the capital seems to be there.

Okay. And you don't – you can raise a separate account even though the fund XI has not been fully deployed, is that right?

Well, we – well, there are – we have to be careful, obviously, about conflicts and any investment that meets the criteria of Tricon XI, lest they have to be shown to the fund first. Now separate accounts, specifically, or joint ventures, call it what you want, sidecars are typically much larger investments. So, we could see situations where we allocate a small portion or a reasonable portion of the investment to the fund, being mindful of the fund's concentration limit, and then go and look for a co-investment for the remainder.

So for example, that's something we are actively doing right now for Vistancia West in Phoenix. And I can see that as being something we continue to doing – do with other deals in the future.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks.

We have no further questions at this time. We'll turn the call back over to the presenters.

Great. Well, thank you for all the questions and your participation, and we look forward to speaking to you in May when we discuss the results for Q1 of 2014. Thanks very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.