Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director-Corporate Finance, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Ian, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Q3 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Wojtek Nowak, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Ian. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2015, which we shared in the news release we distributed yesterday.

Before I turn the call over to Gary Berman, Tricon's President and CEO, I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information about future events and the performance of our business. This information, by its nature, is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our most recent Management's Discussion and Analysis, Annual Information Form, as well as our Short Form Prospectus filed in August, all of which are available on SEDAR. I will also remind you that all figures are being quoted in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated.

Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and the reply will be accessible until November 20.

With that, I will turn the call over to Gary Berman.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. Our prepared remarks this morning will include highlights of our Q3 2015 results and a discussion of growth initiatives in our various business verticals.

Tricon continued to deliver strong year-over-year growth in the third quarter with adjusted EBITDA improving by 40% from the prior year. The key drivers of EBITDA growth this quarter were, one, strong contractual fees, particularly at our Johnson subsidiary, which experienced a rebound in sales; two, growth in investment income at Tricon American Homes as the portfolio continuing to expand; and three, fair value gains at TAH attributed to continued strong home price appreciation within our target markets.

Our AUM also expanded by 24% year-to-date, which was driven by contributions from all our verticals. Over the past 12 months, we broadened our platform as a residential real estate investor and asset manager first with the introduction on Tricon Lifestyle Communities, our manufactured housing vertical; and more recently, with the launch of Tricon Luxury Residences, our purpose-built rental business. With four complementary verticals now in place, Q3 was characterized by meaningful progress within each of these businesses.

Let me share with you some of the highlights on what we've accomplished. At Tricon Housing Partners, we closed on Viridian, a marquee master plan in Dallas-Fort Worth that will be an immediate source of cash flow to Tricon. Within Tricon American Homes, the rental home portfolio grew by 46% compared to last year, reaching over 6,800 homes. At Tricon Lifestyle Communities, we expect to close on our fourth acquisition shortly, which will expand our portfolio to 10 communities and nearly 2,500 rental pads. And at TLR, we've broken ground on our first Canadian project and have closed on two U.S. projects that are progressing towards construction.

It was truly exciting as we look ahead as the Tricon is addressing each vertical from a position of strength. With our recently completed Equity bought deal, we have liquidity of approximately $276 million as of quarter end. This is before taking into account the Tricon American House warehouse facility and projected distributions from Tricon Housing Partners. In short, we are very well prepared to execute on our pipeline of attractive investment opportunities going forward.

With that, I will now turn the presentation over to Wissam Francis, our CFO, for a summary of our financial and operational performance in the quarter. And then, I will return to provide more detailed commentary on our various business lines. We will then open the call up for questions, at which time I will be joined by David Berman, Jon Ellenzweig, Kevin Baldridge, Craig Mode, Doug Quesnel, and David Veneziano.

Thank you, Gary. And good morning, everyone.

Following our strong performance in the first half of 2015, we continue to make meaningful progress in Q3. Our assets under management increased by $488 million or 24% to $2.5 billion as of September 30, 2015 compared to $2 billion as of September 30, 2014. Since Q2 2015, assets under management increased by 8% or $181 million as a result of $141 million commitment to Viridian and continuing expansion of our rental home portfolio under TAH. The increase in assets under management provides a strong base for future growth of contractual fees and investment income.

Contractual fees for the quarter increased by 6% year-over-year to $7.3 million as a result of additional fee income received from new separate account and side-car investments formed over the past year, as well as an increased contribution from Johnson which experienced a strong quarter fueled by the launch of additional fee-generating communities.

At Tricon Housing Partners, investment income was $5.4 million in Q3, down 27% year-over-year. The decrease in the quarter was primarily due to lower invested capital outstanding at THP1 US and THP3 Canada, which naturally happens over time as distributions are received and investments are realized. This was partially offset by higher investment income generated by separate accounts and side-cars.

In the third quarter, Tricon received $11 million of cash distributions from our co-investment in THP1 US. This is acquiring a 68.4% interest in THP1 US for $261 million in August 2013. Tricon has received approximately $125 million of free cash flow from the fund and we still expect to receive approximately $250 million of distribution from Q4 2015 through to the end of 2018.

Turning to Tricon American Homes, realized income increased by 44% to $7.5 million in Q3 2015 from $5.2 million in the same period, 2014. Although this a meaningful increase, it is important to note that Tricon American Homes absorbed approximately $1 million of onetime accruals and adjustments in Q3 related to prior quarters. This was a result of continued cleanup efforts as we finalize the integration with the 1,400 home portfolio acquisition from Q2, as well as internalization of property management functions. Excluding these onetime adjustments, Tricon American Homes' investment income would have been $8.5 million for the quarter, adding about $0.01 to our earnings.

Growth in a number of homes and improved occupancy were the primary drivers of the increase. The total portfolio at the end of Q3 2015 was 6,827 homes compared to 4,682 homes a year ago, a 46% increase. In-place occupancy increased by 8% to 91% versus 83% last year. Year-to-date operating margin decreased to 60% as of September 30, 2015 compared to 63% in 2014, which was attributed to the onetime adjustment I just mentioned, as well as changes in geographical mix of the portfolio. We expect our gross margin for the year to be approximately 60% on a stabilized basis.

Tricon American Homes also recorded a fair value of gain of $12.1 million in Q3. The vast majority of the homes are valued using the Home Price Index Methodology, with an increase in fair value of 1.3% for these homes during the quarter. This translates an annualized growth of 5.2% higher than we would have projected. While home price appreciation is a welcomed source of value creation, our focus remains on generating strong operating income from prudent acquisition of homes in attractive markets.

Tricon Lifestyle Communities contributed $0.3 million to invested income in the quarter, reflecting results from Longhaven Estates, as well as full quarter's contribution of Apache MHP, which we acquired in Q2 2015. Year-to-date operating margin was 63%, consistent with Q2 2015. Portfolio occupancy was 89% as of September 30 compared to 87% as of June 30. This higher occupancy is attributed to the addition of Apache MHP to the portfolio, as well as operational improvement in Longhaven.

In terms of operating expenses, salaries and benefit increased by 21% or $0.5 million from last year to $3.1 million in Q3. Approximately $0.3 million of the increase came from Johnson, where we saw higher variable compensation related to stronger land sales. The remainder was largely related to expanding our team to support our four business verticals for future growth.

On a run rate basis, we expect salaries and benefits of around $3 million per quarter for the near term including Johnson, which is consistent with our prior guidance. Over time, however, we expect salaries and benefits to increase as we continue to strengthen our team and grow our business.

Overall, our adjusted earning – EBITDA increased by $7.2 million or 40% to $25.2 million in Q3 2015 compared to $18 million in Q3 2014. As Gary mentioned, the key contributing factors this quarter were strong contractual fees, as well as Tricon American Homes investment income and fair value gains.

Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.10 in the quarter compared to $0.11 last year, a decrease of $0.01. Our EBITDA was higher this quarter, but share count was also higher, mainly as a result of the recent Equity bought deal.

During the quarter, we enhanced our liquidity position with CAD 150 million equity bought deal offer, which was partly used to pay down our corporate revolving credit facility. As of the end of the quarter, we had a cash balance of $41 million and an undrawn credit facility of $235 million to deploy into growth initiatives within our various verticals. In addition, we have approximately $82 million of available room under our Tricon American Homes warehouse credit facility.

I will now turn the call back to Gary who will provide additional insights in our Principal Investments, our Private Funds and Advisory businesses.

Thank you, Wissam. It was a busy quarter for Tricon in all our verticals and I'm pleased to highlight some of the milestones starting with Tricon Housing Partners.

In Q3, as most of you are probably aware, we attempted to create a new public company called Tricon Investment Partners or TIP that would essentially replicate our land and homebuilding fund business through a permanent capital vehicle to be externally managed by Tricon. With approximately half the deal done, then hit a wall, our second week of marketing was arguably the worst or one of the worst weeks in the markets in roughly five years and investors had more important issues to focus on, so we decided to pull the offering.

Those who were supportive of the deal were excited to get more direct exposure to a U.S.-focused land and homebuilding pure-play, a sector which currently offers very compelling risk-adjusted returns in comparison to other real estate asset classes. Notwithstanding our setback on TIP, we very much believe in the land and homebuilding business and our current plan is to stay the course, meaning that we will continue to fund land and homebuilding or Tricon Housing Partners through our balance sheet and bring in third-party private investors when appropriate.

Although we won't be able to take advantage of all the opportunities in our THP pipeline without a dedicated vehicle, we believe creating a culture where people, business verticals and prospective investments compete for capital should lead the better returns over time as the best ideas emerge. Also, now that it's back to the status quo, we will be able to use 100% of the cash flow emanating from our interest in THP1 US which can be used to grow Tricon Housing Partners or fund our other verticals. Again, we expect this cash flow to amount to roughly $250 million from Q4 through the end of 2018.

For the quarter, Tricon Housing Partners recorded investment income of approximately $5.4 million which was below management's expectations as key milestones at some of our projects in THP1 and THP2 U.S. have been deferred to Q4 and possibly Q1. A number of public builders have cited labor issues as a constraint in meeting contracted home closing schedules and we've experienced the same in a couple of our investments. For instance, on our Vistancia West investment in Phoenix, the project has so far recorded 147 sales, making it one of the top-selling active adult projects in Phoenix this year, yet a shortage of framing crews will mean that homes that should have closed at the end of this year will be deferred to next year.

On the whole, our private investment vehicles are performing well and generally in line with our overall business plans. The delay in some project milestones should not significantly affect the quantum of cash flow; just the timing. And as a result, we actually could see an earnings pickup in Q4 or Q1 for THP.

Moving on to Tricon American Homes, we resumed our normal acquisition activity after completing the integration of the 1,400-home portfolio acquired earlier in the year. In Q3, we acquired 344 homes and intend to acquire roughly 400 net new homes per quarter going forward largely through bank-owned MLS activity and small portfolio purchases.

We've refined our acquisition criteria and in the coming quarters, we'll target homes that on average, one, generate rents between $1,200 and $1,300 per month, roughly $100 higher than our existing portfolio with minimums generally above $1,000 per month; and two, homes that are located in ZIP codes with above-average school districts. Our current target markets are those where we desire to achieve more scale, namely, Charlotte, Columbia, Atlanta, Phoenix, Las Vegas and Indianapolis, and we are targeting a blended cap rate of 6.5% to 7% across these markets.

Indianapolis is a new market for us. It is not technically in the sunbelt, but we are attracted to its growth prospects, pro-business sentiment, and the opportunity to generate scale quickly through an organic buying program. In the quarter, we acquired 88 homes via portfolio purchase in Indianapolis at an average cap rate of 7.2% and an average age of just six years.

At the same time, as we make new acquisitions, we intend to dispose non-core assets to improve the quality and location of the portfolio, as well as our operational performance. We sold 30 homes in Q3 and intend to sell more in the coming months.

From an operational perspective, we would describe Q3 as a cleanup quarter. As part our internalization process and integration of the 1,400-home portfolio acquisition, we trued up certain property tax, insurance and utility accruals and expenses. These onetime costs amounted to nearly $1 million and normally would have been spread across the prior three to four quarters with little impact on returns.

R&M expense at roughly $900 per quarter per unit annualized, and that's before turnover costs and onetime adjustments, was also higher than our annualized target of $750 per unit as a result of storms and unseasonal heavy rains in the Carolinas and Texas, as well as heavier AC repairs in the hot summer months. Taken together, these two non-recurring items reduced our operating margin from 60% to 56% in the quarter.

As we finalize the internalization process for Tricon American Homes, we plan on consolidating back office operations in senior management into one office in Orange County, California by the end of Q1 2016. Until now, these operations have been spread between our Charlotte and Sacramento offices. We expect that the new consolidated structure will allow for enhanced operations, coordination and customer service as we continue to build the portfolio. We still maintain a property management presence in both Charlotte and Sacramento, along with the other markets where we operate.

Going forward, we expect our operating margin to be approximately 60% on an annualized basis. We've lowered our margin guidance in the last couple of quarters to account for the change in our geographic mix. For instance, our portfolio concentration in Texas where property taxes are relatively high has increased approximately 20% of homes from 5% at this time last year. It's important to note that even though the NOI margins will vary across markets, we remain true to our core discipline of buying homes at 6.5% to 7% cap rates.

In-place occupancy in the quarter increased by 8% year-over-year to 91% that dropped 3% sequentially because of the resumption of our acquisition program and the repositioning of homes acquired in the 1,400-home portfolio in Q2. We continue to see solid demand for our homes. Occupancy for homes owned more than six months was 93% in Q3, down 1% from Q2 mainly as a result of homes in backlog within areas affected by heavy rain.

As further evidence of strength in the rental market and strong demand for our homes, we've been able to increase rents on renewals by 2.4% and new move-ins by 5.6% for a blended increase of 3.9% in the year-to-date. Turnover was in line with our expectations at approximately 30%.

Let's continue with the brief discussion of TLC where we are making progress on the acquisition front. Subsequent to quarter end, we closed in three-part 55+ age-restricted portfolio in Phoenix. When including the additional five-part portfolio that we have under contract, we expect to own nearly 2,500 pads by year-end in Phoenix, which are designated as 55+ and three to four stars on average. We've underwritten these 10 parts to generate an average year one cap rate of 6% to 6.5% and have been able to secure long-term property level debt at a weighted average interest rate of 4.2% with blended debt term of just over seven years at 65% LTV.

Longhaven and Apache MHP are performing in accordance with their business plans and have generated an average operating margin of roughly 63% year-to-date, which is ahead of budget on lower-than-expected R&M. Our capital improvement program for Longhaven is nearly complete and we remain hopeful that these improvements will create [ph] resident (17:42) goodwill, lead to higher rents and ultimately, a better valuation for the asset.

In this regard, we are pleased to report that occupancy has been steadily increasing in Longhaven since Q1 2015. Overall, we were up 2% on the year in addition to increasing rents by 4% year-over-year.

In Tricon Luxury Residences, our newly formed purpose-built multi-family rental business, we had a productive quarter on the acquisition front, formally closing on [ph] two-seat (18:06) assets in Dallas, one near Highland Park and the other in Frisco, and are working on two possibilities in Downtown Toronto that will hopefully close in Q1 2016.

In the U.S., we're also in advanced stages of turning other sites in Dallas, San Diego and Phoenix. At TLR Canada, The Selby located near Bloor and Sherbourne formally commenced construction with the moving of the heritage home. Tendering a major trade is on schedule and we secured a construction loan on attractive terms.

In our Private Funds and Advisory business, third-party AUM increased 12% year-over-year to nearly $1.2 billion as a result of new separate accounts formed earlier in the year while being offset by distributions from THP1 US.

Although contractual fees from Tricon Housing Partners have leveled off from last year, additional revenues from our investment in Johnson enabled us to record a meaningful $3.5 million increase in overall fee income year-to-date. The year-to-date result includes nine months of contribution from Johnson versus five-and-a-half months in 2014.

For the quarter, Johnson generated $3.8 million of contractual fees, up from $2.7 million in Q3 2014 and $2.1 million last quarter. The increase relates to closing of sales deferred from earlier part of the year on account of bad weather, as well as the addition of new fee-generated communities.

We get asked a lot how the Houston housing market is faring in the face of much lower oil prices. We've definitely seen an overall softening of home activity selling in Johnson communities, and individual project sales are down anywhere from 10% to 25% year-over-year.

Project focused to the energy corridor employment ring has had the largest declines. Despite the slowdown, Houston remains the largest market in the U.S. from a building activity perspective, and Johnson has a diversified footprint across the city with four of the top seven active master plan communities as ranked by starts. In addition, Johnson has continued to launch new projects in 2015, which have helped alleviate the same-store sales declines.

On stand-alone basis, Johnson sales were down 13% year-over-year through Q3 but the addition of the Harvest Green community in Q3 and continued growth at Sienna South, Woodforest and the newest acquisition, Viridian in Dallas-Fort Worth market are expected to shrink that gap. As of today, sales were down just 9% year-over-year, which bodes well for Johnson's fourth quarter performance.

As we look forward, we intend to grow our third-party AUM by continuing to syndicate Tricon Housing Partner deals to third-party investors and growing our TLR Canada platform. At the appropriate time, we will also consider bringing in third-party investors into our other verticals. We are also moving closer performance speeds in some of our earlier Canadian investment vehicles. For example, subsequent to quarter end, distributions from projects in THP1 Canada largely paid off investor capital and preferred return, setting us up to earn performance fees from future distributions.

So, in conclusion, we are pleased with the progress we are making in growing our various housing verticals, as well as continuously refining our operations to generate stronger returns for our shareholders.

With that, I will pass the call back to the operator to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Jonathan Kelchner (sic) [Jonathan Kelchner] (21:35) with TD Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks, good morning.

Hi, John.

First just on Tricon Housing Partners and you may have answered this in your prepared remarks, but do you guys have any thoughts of doing another fund?

No, not in the short term. As we said in the commentary, we're going to stay the course in recent quarters, which means that we're going to fund investments off of our balance sheet and then bring in third-party investors when appropriate typically through what we call separate accounts or side-car vehicles.

Okay. And just looking at investment income from that vertical, when would you expect that to bottom out?

Well, you can see that it is declining obviously as we realize investments, right?

Yes.

And obviously that the most important thing to track with respect to that vertical is our investment in THP1 U.S. or 68% interest. So as that investment balance starts to decline, you're going to see the investment income obviously decline commensurately. But, at the same time, we're adding new investments. We added Viridian in Q2 and we expect that obviously in the future, we'll continue to grow that portfolio as well.

Okay. And then just turning to Tricon American Homes and I'm guessing San Antonio and Houston, the weakness in occupancy there was related to the heavy rains.

Yeah. We own a lot of homes backlog in a so-called term process that we just haven't been able to get to market because of the heavy rains and that's weighing down on the occupancy.

Okay. Has that started to pick up in Q4?

Yeah.

Or would you expect it to be weak again?

No, no. We're seeing a pickup in Q4.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Okay.

Your next question comes from Stephen MacLeod with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Steve.

Just had a question on the TAH portfolio. So you mentioned you had an HPI valuation applied to the whole portfolio and then BPO on a portion of the portfolio. Is that a new – is the HPI a new metric that you're going to use going forward, a new methodology, I guess?

Yeah, it is. And we implemented that last quarter. We're doing BPOs every three years. And then once a home is BPOed, once we take it for, we use the HPI metric, which is basically – it measures home values, pared homes sales. So it's a pretty good, I think, valuation metric to determine how home prices are moving.

Okay.

And so, yes, we do consider – we're going to continue that going forward.

Okay. But this is the first quarter where you've actually used the HPI methodology because...

No, we did it last quarter as well.

Last quarter, too. Okay. Great.

We actually started it in Q1 where, even though the bulk of them were done using the BPO method because of securitization transactions, some will use the HPI method. And then in Q2, the majority will use HPI and similar to Q3.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And then on Johnson, was the strength in the quarter – from your prepared remarks, I understood – maybe I misunderstood this, but the strength in the quarter, was it largely due to like backlogs being worked through? I'm just curious how the strength in the quarter is reflective of what you were talking about in terms of the headwinds in the Houston market.

Yeah. It did seem surprising that we had such a strong quarter. A lot of that was just related to backlog issues and deferrals. Obviously, there were very heavy rains early in the year and that prevented closings and those were picked up in Q3. So that explained a large amount of the pickup.

The other is just that we've been adding new fee-generating communities. And by that, I mean, these are communities that we're not – Tricon is not necessarily investing in as a co-investor, but they are generating fees for Johnson and so it's helping generate revenue.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And then on the TLC business, once your post 10 new parks that you're going to have through 2015 by the end of the year, what does it look like on a blended basis in terms of post-acquisition margin and average rents?

Yeah. So, we're going to – we've been – I mean, if we look at the, let's say, the 10 parks on a pro forma basis, we're looking at cap rate of 6% to 6.5%. So that's consistent with what we said in the commentary.

The pad rents are coming down. We'll probably going to see an average pad rent of $350 to $375, and that's because some of the parks we've acquired are what we would call RV or park model home parks, where the actual homes are smaller and they're more seasonal, and therefore the rent is lower. And we're also going to see lower margin.

So we would expect the margins to be probably in the high-50%s, maybe touching 60%, Steve. But the important thing to understand here is it's not so much the margin, but it's what we're requiring that margin at, and that's at 6% to 6.5%.

Right. Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And then just finally on the TAH outlook, you talked about kind of 60% being the margin outlook for 2015 and I understand that to be also into 2016. Can you just talk about what some of the variables would be to move that margin either higher than 60% or lower than 60%?

Well, I mean, really the biggest thing is the geographic mix, and that's why we've moved the guidance down from the last couple of quarters because we have a much higher concentration in Texas. So, it really does depend on what jurisdiction we own homes and how that changes over time. In states where there is no state income tax, you obviously generally have higher property taxes so that does affect the margin. So, it will depend on our buying box and our acquisition criteria.

But then the other thing I would just say is efficiencies, what can we do to improve our operations? Obviously, by clustering our home as tightly as possible, improving our occupancy, helping to make sure our R&M's in line, those are the things that are going to drive efficiencies. And so, we're guiding to 60% this year and next year. It is possible as we improve our operations that that could move up if the geographic mix stays constant. But I think to be conservative in comp – we think 60% is a good level.

Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.

Yeah.

Your next question comes from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Just I had one question. With the equity offering you did, you mentioned you paid down the credit facility. Even before that, I mean you weren't using a whole of it and you've got kind of $230 million. Is the way to think about it is because you're not going to raise another private equity fund, then you're going to put some stuff on the balance sheet and eventually syndicate it into a separate account or something along those lines? That's why you need to have that dry powder because if you're looking at a number of large deals, you need to have that credit facility room to do those types of transactions.

Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that's one answer. But I mean, as you know, Geoff, all our verticals are in growth mode and we're seeing really terrific opportunities everywhere.

So, if you look at – I think you answered the question. For Tricon Housing Partners, we do need to have the ability to take those on our balance sheet and then syndicate them when appropriate. So having that extra liquidity is very helpful, especially without having [ph] TIP (29:30) or dedicated fund.

In the case of Tricon American Homes, we're going to be buying through really onesies and twosies about 400 net homes a quarter. For every thousand homes, we probably need about $40 million of equity, so we need equity for that.

In Tricon Lifestyle Communities, we've used up much of the pipeline we previously talked about at $100 million pipeline, but we've also added to that pipeline. And our pipeline now after taking into account these latest acquisitions is still backed by about $100 million, so we need capital for that.

And then, we've also talked about Tricon Luxury Residences where we've got – we're getting closer on two projects in Toronto. We've got the two projects in Dallas that are now closed, and we're looking in others in the U.S. All of those are going to need capital.

So, we're very well-positioned and that's why we wanted to get ahead of our growth plans and make sure we have the capital and liquidity available to fund it.

And then, maybe just one actually other follow-up there. When you're on the THP side, when you're looking at these transactions, particularly if you're looking at something the size of Viridian, I mean at what point you start engaging potential third-party investors to take a co-invest, because I'm assuming that if you can do this kind of size of a deal, you probably want to have a certain line of sight as to how much you're going to syndicate and who you probably syndicate it to?

Yeah. I mean, we're always looking at our concentration. And obviously, diversification is incredibly important in any kind of investment allocation. So, what – an investment the size of the Viridian, which is a $140 million commitment, we would be low to take something like that down directly on our balance sheet because obviously, that's a big – that's a large – over 10% of our balance sheet. So, that's why for those large assets, we start to have those conversations with potential investors right up front to try to determine who's interested.

So, if we were going to warehouse something that's larger, we would definitely want to know that we have someone to take it out. So, in some cases, it's timing issues. We may need to warehouse it and then we know we have someone lined up, but we typically don't want to take on a deal that big. We wouldn't want to take full risk on syndication.

Okay. All right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Jimmy Shan with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thank you. So just on the labor pressure that you spoke about earlier, just kind of wondering if you could give a little bit more color in terms of how widespread is that within your managed portfolio. And is it more of a cost issue or an availability issue that you're seeing?

It's really – Jimmy, it is an issue and it really is market-to-market. I would really describe it as growing pains. The industry, in some ways now, is becoming a victim of its own success as it grows. And because a lot of labor went back to Mexico and is probably not coming back anytime soon, there has been pressure on things like framing, where it is difficult to find crew. So, because of that, it's affecting cycle times. It's taking longer to build homes, and therefore it's obviously also affecting our costs.

So it's both timing and it is costs. And so, it is weighing on the industry. It is a real issue. It's not affecting all our projects. We're seeing more of an impact, let's say, in Phoenix, for example, and California. Phoenix starts are still really low compared to their peak levels, but they've moved up quite a bit since last year.

I mean, last year's single-family permits were probably around 11,000. This year, they're probably pushing 15,000. So it's a fairly big increase from last year's low base and that is pressuring on labor a little bit.

But I think that will get sorted out over time in a capital system as there's opportunities. We should see more job formation, people will come in and that will get settled. But in the interim right now, we're getting a bit of a plateau because of the labor constraints in some of those markets. In other places, we haven't seen any issues at all.

Okay. Okay. And then just turning to TAH in terms of – you mentioned you've sold some homes and you're looking to sell more. So how are you approaching that? Is it that you're just selling some one-off homes that from an operational perspective doesn't make sense because it's sort of out there? And so just maybe if you could talk about that. And then sort of what are you getting in terms of pricing relative to what you've recorded in the books?

Sure. So, I mean, I think in any prudent portfolio management, you always have to look at what you have and see whether you can improve it. And so, it would not be crazy I think for us over time to prune, call it, 5% to 10% of our existing portfolio, and we'll do that gradually.

And the reason we would sell those homes could be, one, just because we acquired them in larger portfolios and those homes might not fit. They may be too far out. And so, those are examples where you want to sell those homes to improve your own efficiencies, take that capital and reinvest it and buy homes that are a better fit.

So, I think you're going to continue to see us do that. That's why when we're guiding, we're saying we're going to buy roughly 400 net homes per quarter, that's after taking the account dispositions. And so it's going to ebb and flow.

And with respect to disposition proceeds, Jimmy, I would say on average, they're going be in line with what they're being carried on the books because, remember, we moved to a BPO model and the BPO is I think pretty accurate in terms of being – in terms of valuing the homes. And then we update those BPOs with HPI.

So I think we should assume over time that the result – now, we did record a gain this quarter. But I think going forward, there could be times where we have losses and other times we have gains. It should be pretty consistent with what we're carrying on our books. And obviously that we're selling at a premium to our cost basis, but in terms of our carrying value, it should consistent.

Okay. And then just last question, if I may, just in terms of the TAH and the margins. Even with your coldest quarter, I mean the margin tracking at 60% range would be at the top end of, I would say, some of your single-family REIT peers and some of them run even larger portfolio. So I'm kind of trying to figure out what it is that you guys are doing differently, because some of them are kind of barely hitting that 60% mark, that you feel that you are doing differently in being able to achieve that kind of range and margin.

And then secondly, a lot of them I think have kind of stopped buying properties for the time being. and just curious as to what you're seeing when you're at the auction house and whether or not you're seeing – you're able to get a little bit better pricing of that rate doesn't make a difference.

Well, I mean, I would say that one of the differences in terms of the margin is just that we've gone slower. Some of our peers are bigger than us, they've acquired homes much faster and that's put a lot of pressure on their operations and they're trying to catch up.

We've really – I mean, given that we've always paid a dividend, we've always been focused on wanting to cash flow those homes quickly and make sure we can essentially touch every home we buy. And I think because we've gone slower, we've been able to operate a little bit more efficiently and obviously obtain a better margin.

So, I think the other thing is part of our strategy is we've also been prepared to buy in some markets homes that are more infill, where we've done more substantial renovations, but where we can get high rents relative to the home price. And so, obviously, we've seen better yields which is translated into better margins as well. So, I think it's a bit of the buying program and the fact that we've just gone slower.

But I mean, we have other peers that are also doing well. I mean, I think to Starwood Waypoint had a decent quarter. And we're probably a leader in most of the metrics, but they're also very good and doing well. And then, I think there's a couple of situations which are really just company-specific and really I don't think have any impact or bearing on the overall viability of the industry. We feel very confident and I know talking to some of our peers, there's others that also feel very confident in our ability to operate at around 60% obviously and that somewhat depends on geographic mix.

Jimmy, I forget the – your second question.

Just because some of them are on the sidelines in terms of buying, whether or not you're seeing better pricing at the auction house.

Oh. Well, we really reduced a lot of our buying through the auction house. It's still competitive at the auctions, I will tell you that, and our peers are still buying homes, just not meeting on in the same volume. So, it is still competitive and there still are smaller investors that are at those auctions. We've really moved a lot of our acquisitions away from the auction house really to MLS buying where they're really bank sales.

And the benefit of buying through MLS is you can go in and inspect the homes. You have much better idea of what you need to do to renovate it. And we've been able to – like there's no issue at all in terms of being on acquirer homes. I always say it's easy to buy homes even in today's market. Even though we've seen prices move up, it's still very easy to acquire homes. It's obviously much more difficult to manage homes, and that's why we continue to try to be very disciplined in our acquisition process.

Okay Thank you.

Your next question comes from Dean Wilkinson with CIBC. Your line is open.

Thanks. Morning, everybody. Most of my questions have been answered. And if you've already covered this one, I apologize. The home sales price on a per-square foot basis on the Cross Creek Ranch you indicated was down a little over last year. Is that just a shift of the kind of homes that were being sold? You've got – you run the full spectrum from sort of entry right up to high end, or was it just a general pricing issue?

No. I mean, that's not – Dean, that's not entirely accurate. I would say that the prices on a per-pound basis and a per-lot basis or front foot basis are really flat. What we're just seeing a change in mix. We're seeing that builders really want smaller product. So they're not as interested, let's say, in a 70-foot-plus product and they want more kind of 50-foot, 60-foot lots, and that just means lower lot prices and...

Right.

...very lower home prices. But from a per-pound basis, we're basically flat.

Okay. So it is just a straight-up change in...

Yeah. It's just really a mix. It's a change in mix.

Right. And the only other question I had is can you just confirm for me the share count issuance increase on the debenture call?

Let me answer that, Wissam? Wojtek?

In terms shares – in terms of the new shares being offered, it's...

It's steady.

Yeah, it's about [ph] 48 million (41:14) at $6 conversion price.

8 million.

Yeah.

Dean, we can get you the exact number after the call.

Okay. Good. That'd be great. Got it. That's all I had.

10 million shares, actually.

Okay.

8 million?

Yeah. About 8 million, but we'll get you the exact number.

Perfect. All right. Thanks, guys. That's all I had.

Thanks.

There are no further questions at this time. I'd turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, operator. I would like to thank all of you in the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in the new year when we discuss the results for Q4 2015. Thanks very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.