Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Executive Chairman, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Glenn Watchorn — Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group Inc.
Gary Berman — President and Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jeffrey F. Olin — President & Chief Executive Officer, Vision Capital Corp. (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Tricon Q1 Investor Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on May 11, 2012.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, David Berman. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ending March 31, 2012, which results were shared out in the news release we distributed earlier this morning.

With me today in our officers are June Alikhan, our Chief Financial Officer; Gary Berman, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer; and Jonathan Ellenzweig, Vice Presdient. Glenn Watchorn, our other Co-Chief Operating Officer is on the line from Florida, where he is currently on business.

Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcaptial.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until May the 18th.

Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our Limited Partnership Funds. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our most recent Annual Information Form, which is available on SEDAR.

I will start with the summary of first quarter highlights, June will then very briefly review key financial results, after which, I will comment on our outlook and business prospects and Gary and Glenn will provide some commentary on what we're seeing in the Canadian and U.S. markets in which we operate. We will then be pleased to take your questions.

The first quarter of 2012 has been the most financially successful quarter in our brief history as a public company, as we had strong year-over-year improvements in all of our key metrics. Assets under management have grown by nearly CAD 100 million over the past 12 months to CAD 992 million as of March 31, 2012, when including events that took place subsequent to quarter-end, our AUM has actually increased to over CAD 1.1 billion.

Fund raising for our new Canadian fund Tricon XII continued during the quarter, with an increase in commitments received of approximately CAD 46 million. In total, commitments to the fund have now increased to CAD 186 million, far in excess of our expectations. The new commitments generated a one-time catch-up in general partnership distributions, since new investors are required to make GP distribution as if they had invested in the fund on the first closing. As we have noted in the past, Tricon XII is our largest Canadian fund ever, and will provide a significant stable fee base for Tricon for many years to come.

We also continued to move forward towards the first closing for our new U.S. distressed fund Tricon XI, and are now in formal legal documentation for a CAD 100 million investment from a large U.S. institutional investor. We continue to target a first close in Q2, 2012, after which we will start the broader fundraising process in the earnest.

Subsequent to quarter end, we announced two new strategic initiatives in United States. A separate account for a large trophy assets in Houston, Texas and the acquisition, renovation, and rental of distressed single-family homes in certain select markets. We also successfully completed a bought deal financing for approximately CAD 50 million, primarily to finance the single-family rental strategy. These are all transformative events for Tricon, which I will discuss further in my closing remarks.

Before I pass the call over June, I'm very pleased to announce that on May 8, our board of directors declared unchanged quarterly dividend payments in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on June the 30th. The dividend will be payable on July 13, 2012.

With that, I will now turn our presentation over to June, for summary of how we have performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thanks, David. Tricon's financial results released earlier today are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standard or IFRS and are presented in Canadian dollars, unless noted otherwise. Management's discussion and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website and SEDAR.

Tricon's net and comprehensive income for the quarter was CAD 243,000 or CAD 0.01 per share, as compared to a loss of CAD 195,000 or a loss of CAD 0.01 per share for the corresponding quarter in 2011. Although, we are very pleased with this meaningful improvement in net income, it remains management's opinion that adjusted base EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are more useful metric for assessing the performance of the company, since these exclude non-recurring and non-cash items, including the significant potential LTIP-related expense.

We're therefore even more pleased to report that adjusted base EBITDA for the quarter increased by nearly 60% to CAD 1,709,000 when compared to Q1 2011, largely as a result of the aforementioned general partner distribution catch up. Adjusted EBITDA also had a meaningful increase for the same reason. Similarly, adjusted net income increased by nearly 70% from CAD 658,000 in Q1 2011 to CAD 1,109,000 in Q1 2012.

In summary, we are very pleased with the strong improvement in our key financial metrics and are excited by our financial prospects for 2012 and beyond, as we begin closing for Tricon XI and continue to rollout our new strategic initiatives.

I will now turn the presentation back to David.

Thank you, June. In order to provide our investors with additional insight on the residential real-estate markets in Canada and United States, as well as the real-estate capital markets, I had invited Glenn and Gary to provide some additional commentary. Glenn?

Thank you, David. Overall, in the first quarter of 2012, it's been a very positive quarter, not only for the U.S. housing market, but also for Tricon's activities in the U.S. For the second straight quarter, key indicators for the U.S. housing market continue to demonstrate evidence of improvement, inventory levels of both new and resale homes remained stable, and will be consider at healthy levels, approximately six months each. New home sales increased over the quarter, and new home inventory in an absolute basis now stands at its lowest level in decades.

Existing home inventories now decreased by more than 40% since reaching its peak in July 2007. Public homebuilders are reporting strong traffic and double-digit year-over-year increases in orders. Starts were up this quarter and we expect that they will increase 20% this year over 2011. Albeit, this will be coming off of a historically low base, in many of our actively selling communities where we were able to buy land at today's depressed market prices, we have been recently generating three to four sales per month, which is indicative of a normal demand in a stabilized market.

With jobs and consumer confidence still on the rise, there remains only two major impediments to a full recovery; the availability of credit and shadow inventory. The shadow inventory really being those mortgages currently delinquent in the foreclosure process – and we're in the foreclosure process, which will ultimately add to the overall housing inventory.

As I mentioned in our previous conference call, the problem associated with availability of credit should fix itself over time as the [ph] populous (08:33) improves their balance sheets and their credit history improves within the system in the natural course of time. What will aid in solving the issue of shadow inventory is affordability. The significant reduction in home prices since the peak and generationally low mortgage rates have restored affordability to levels that have not been seen in decades to the point now that the median earning household can now afford nearly two median priced homes. Prices have now gotten to a level of affordability wherein many cases the cost of renting is higher than the cost of owning, which would generally be considered abnormal, and in my opinion is a strong indication that the market has overcorrected. This has actually given rise to a new industry where many investors are purchasing homes and renting them for very attractive yields, which Gary will discuss after this.

Traditional buyer demand is also improving with supply tightening in jobs and confidence improving. As a result, we believe that the increase in demand from both investors and the traditional buyer will over the next couple of years offset both existing portfolio inventory and the shadow inventory that will ultimately become the real inventory. We are of the opinion that the shadow inventory will decline meaningfully over this timeframe, and will be at a healthy manageable level by the end of 2013, which is when we believe the overall housing market will be back to a normalized state.

Even while the market appears to be improving, Tricon continues to see significant flow of distressed opportunistic transactions that underrate to extremely attractive risk adjusted returns. And this is largely due to the lack of competition with very few capital providers focused on this sector and the lack of conventional debt available to provide leverage for the acquisition and development of land. As such, Tricon has been financing its transactions on an unlevered overall cash basis, while still underwriting high equity returns essentially in the whole capital structure.

It's really weird to see such security capital – security of capital, while still being able to get high equity returns, this is largely again due to the lack of leverage and the significant high margins that are necessary to provide the equity returns on the whole capital structure.

Since the beginning of the year, Tricon has closed on three major transactions in the U.S. with really the same underwriting characteristics. One in the Bay Area of San Francisco, which was the final investment for our Tricon IX fund. One in Dallas, which will be the seed investment in our new Tricon XI fund and one in Houston, which David mentioned, which was a very large separate account transaction with a new institutional partner. The Houston Cross Creek transactions, probably the largest single residential land deal completed in the U.S. in the last five years and Tricon is very excited about its entry into what is the top housing market in the country. In summary, we believe that we will continue to see a significant pipeline of opportunistic transactions with an extremely attractive risk adjusted returns in the U.S.

Now I'll pass it back to David.

Gary, will you takeover?

Yes, yes, thanks, Glenn (sic) [David] (11:59). I'd like to talk a little bit about our U.S. single family rental strategy and just continue on the alliance of the U.S update. Our implementation of our U.S. single family rental strategy is progressing on-track with schedule. We expect to enter into definitive documentation with our Sacramento partner, early next week and our Phoenix and San Francisco Bay Area partners by late next week. We've also just entered into a term sheet with a potential new partner in Southeast Florida to pursue Section 8 housing and that's something we are also excited about.

Due diligence on specified assets to be rolled into the various partnerships is going well, and we anticipate being able to close in our first seed assets for approximately $7 million next week. Our overall plan, as was disclosed in our recent offering is to buy homes predominantly at the courthouse steps at a blended 8% cap rate, and obviously there will be some variations across markets depending on the type of assets we acquire. We expect to allocate the majority of the net proceeds of the bought deal within the next two months and then to employ 50% to 60% leverage once the assets are stabilized. In total, we anticipate being able to acquire roughly 1,000 homes.

Our longer term goal would be to acquire roughly 5,000 homes and to fund the purchases through both public and private capital markets. We really view this as historic once in a lifetime opportunity and we are working closely with our partners to move as quickly as possible, within what is likely a two-year maybe three-year window, before the discounted buying opportunities disappear. As Glenn was saying, as we and other likeminded investors buy distressed single-family homes, it will become a self-fulfilling prophecy, as we moved the distress inventory and the ultimate shadow inventory aftermarket, and ensure that home prices go back up to normalized levels.

For Canadian housing market update, we'd like to say that the market seems to continue to chug along and perform well in the face of what seems like relentless negative media reports in doom and gloom headlines. Our first two investments in Fund XII, the Massey Tower and the Silver Tower in the Metrotown Portfolio have exceeded our launch expectations and are now largely sold.

With that being said, we are sensing that the market is changing and that we are moving into an environment of winners and losers as buyers are being much more selective and taking longer to make purchase decisions. Over the last couple of years, most launches routinely fared well, but this can no longer be taken for granted in the face of bank tightening and negative headline news.

As such, we will continue to be very cautious as we pursue new investment opportunities in Tricon XII and we'll remain vigilant in the monitoring of existing assets. I should point out that our current Toronto condo portfolio consists of approximately 3,100 units and only 300 units remain unsold. The vast majority of those being in the recently launched Massey Tower. So, we are very well positioned to weather any expected market correction.

David, I'll hand it back to you.

Thank you, Gary. Thank you Glenn. As discussed earlier, I'm very pleased with Tricon's financial success this quarter. And furthermore, I'm excited for our prospects for the balance of the year and beyond. Our new step of the cash strategy are partnering with Massey institutional investors on large one-off investments and trophy assets has already had a very successful launch with $150 million investment in Cross Creek Ranch, the large master plan development in Houston. This investment will generate an additional management fee revenue stream for Tricon for quite a few years to come. It will also produce investment income on our co-investments from the get-go as well as back ended performance fees if the project performs as expected.

While we cannot reasonably project the timing of additional separate account investments going forward, we continue to look for similar investment opportunities and we'll strive to make this a meaningful part of our business.

Our other new strategic initiatives which was launched subsequent to quarter end is the acquisition and renovation and rental of the single-family homes in United States as Gary has mentioned, in partnership with local operating partners. We believe that there is an 18 month to 24 month window to acquire these homes via full closure and short-sales, generally a sizable discounts to market pricing.

Given the limited timeframe to buy these homes and the extent of time it takes to raise new institutional funds in the United States, we have decided to enter the strategy by using Tricon's balance sheet as opposed to raising a new dedicated fund. Our bought deal offering of approximately CAD 50 million will facilitate our entry into this market and with a prudent amount of leverage should allow us to acquire approximately 100 million – sorry, 100,000 homes – sorry a 1,000 homes as Gary has mentioned.

Our foray into the strategy has been closely watched by the institutional investor community and could lead to a dedicated single-family rental fund down the road. 2012 is poised to be an exciting year for Tricon, as we executed our core private fund strategy as well as our new strategic initiatives. We appreciate the continued support of our shareholders, those have been with us since the IPO and those who became shareholders as a result of that bought deal financing. We hope to reward each and all by continuing to report further financial success in the quarters and years to come.

We will now be pleased to respond to any questions that you might have. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, we now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question coming from [ph] Stephen Bolan (18:13). Please proceed with your question.

Good morning.

Hi, [ph] Steve (18:20).

Several questions. I guess I will start with the U.S. single family rental strategy. I mean you see the press reports coming out about how different institutions are trying to do the same strategy. Is there a risk of competition down there, or are we just not aware of the scale of the amount of foreclosures that are coming to the courthouse steps every day, I wonder if you could just talk about that.

Yeah. Hi, [ph] Steve (18:52), it's Gary. There is certainly a lot of people talking about the strategy. There is actually not a lot of people doing it. That's the conclusion. I mean we were recently at a conference the last couple of days and also with Jefferies who is kind of leading the effort in the U.S. in terms of the capital markets. And they also echo that that there has been a lot of press, there's really then I think a lot of [indiscernible] (19:18) in terms of what people are planning to do, but they are not actually doing. We are actually one of the very few groups that are currently doing this institutionally. I'd say, our competition right now would be Oaktree, Carrington, GI Partners, and partnership with Waypoint, Och-Ziff maybe Colony, these are recently launch announced something, but these are just really just trying to get rid of their existing homes. So it's a – I think maybe a bit of a different strategy.

You have to keep in mind that if we were to acquire 5,000 homes over time, as I mentioned, I think that would be a big accomplishment for Tricon. That would require probably about CAD 500 million of capital between equity and debt. 5,000 homes is a drop in the bucket in comparison to the overall market. The current excess shadow inventory compared to a normalized market right now is 4 million units and some people talk about 6 million or 7 million units when all is said and done.

So again, if we were to acquire 5,000 units selectively, one at a time through a hub and spoke strategy with different partners, it would be an incredibly small amount compared to the overall market. So there is room for lots and lots of competitors, but I think at the end of the day Wall Street will be disappointing with the strategy, because it is a difficult one to implement and operate, and it may prove to be too painful for them from an operational perspective, they may find that it's a lot easier for them to finance the strategy in the debt capital markets or do securitization rather than actually go out there and buy homes.

So we'll see how it unfolds, but we're conscious to the fact that this is a limited window and as both David and I said, we really think there is probably maybe two years of buying opportunities before that kind of big discount between wholesale, the steps in retail in a secondary market disappear, so we do need to move quickly.

Okay, great. And I guess, Gary, since you're talking about, you can give sort of an update on the Canadian housing as well. And [indiscernible] (21:30) this news on the overheated condo market, you talked about a winner, loser strategy, and possibly an expected correction. Maybe you could just talk about, how do you find a winner or loser, like what makes – what criteria do you find it interesting to pick the winning condos or the developments going forward? And then I just have a subsequent question on that.

Yeah, sure. What I talk about kind of winner and loser market, I'm really referring to launches, new condo launches, I guess let's talk about Toronto. What we've seen over the last couple of years, especially with all the stimulus coming into the housing market is that, virtually all launches were successful and what I mean by that is they were routinely selling 30% to in some cases 70% on the building of the launch, which would be in the first couple of months, that not by any means normal, if you go back over time.

What we're seeing today and this is really kind of a very recent phenomenon is that some projects are achieving very strong sales off the launch, such as Massey Tower, which has probably been the top performing – one of the top performing projects in the city and others have not done well at all, in fact they failed. And the reason for that is that the market and certainly investor buyers are becoming a lot more skeptical to being more careful. I think in many cases they are full, they don't really have capacity to make much more in the way of investment and because of that, we're moving into a winner and loser market.

I think what differentiates the projects is, is you really need to have an incredible location. Let's take Massey Tower for example, the reason Massey Tower has been so successful is largely because of its location. It is besides celebrated Massey Hall that everybody knows and beside the Winter Elgin Theaters, so it's part of the theater block, it's across the street from the Eaton Center, it's adjacent to the Queen Street Subway, you can ingress and egress from that subway at your doorsteps, it's walking distance to the CBD, it's a tall project with a good height that investors like because of the view premiums and it's everything that investors want. And so, this is a market that's been very well received in the launch market, others that may be further off the beaten path in terms of transit-oriented development are not doing as well.

Okay. And just give me your – or if you can remind me, where is the capital – your capital or the fund capital most at risk during the process, is this when you've committed to a project? And how do you protect that capital that it doesn't become a loser in that sort of scenario that you just talked about?

Right. So again, we're making these investments within our funds, so I think that's something important to distinguish, although we are co-investing through the public company, but when we talk about the Massey Tower, that is a Tricon XII investment, it is not a Tricon Capital or TCN investment. But where I would say we're most at risk is really at the beginning because when we come into a project, a developer will come to us with a business plan, they will let us know that they've tied up a site, we'll wet it. We then come in to help them buy the land and to fund all the predevelopment costs, that would include approvals or entitlements, it would include design, it would include marketing, building a sale center. That's where we're really at risky, because if the launch is not successful or the market turns down, obviously that's going to have a negative effect on your investment.

Where we try to protect ourselves is obviously in the underwriting, but two, to ensure that if we use any land debt and a lot of developers do use land debt, acquisition development financing, we make sure that we have enough capital within our fund to take out bad debt. So if there was a correction, there is no chance of the bank taking that away from us or foreclosing. We can hold that and we found that if you can hold, generally you're okay. We're also trying to buy properties that have some level of income on them because we're acquiring properties that are typically transit-oriented, very good locations that probably do a substitute uses and therefore we are protected with a little bit of income.

So again, to making sure that we can hold, if there is a correction, it's making sure we're well-capitalized and also allowing us to have a little bit of income that protects if things aren't going according to plan. Once you get under construction, as long as there is no execution errors, the risk is largely mitigated because typically you don't get a construction loan until you have enough presales to take out that loan. So we really feel that once we do get under construction as long as there is no operational mistakes, it's just a matter of waiting for the building to complete and for the units to close.

I think just one comment, if I could add. I think history has shown us over the years that if you can have enough cash to withstand the downturn and you can hold the property through the downturn, you will recover your investment over time as the market recovers, and that's the strategy that we've taken and we certainly learned a lot from this latest U.S. downturn.

Okay, great. I'll re-queue for – I don't want to hog the puck here. Thanks.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question coming from Jeffrey Olin from Vision Capital. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good morning guys. And I apologize, I joined the call late, so if you addressed this in your comments, I will listen to the replay of the call. But my question is at our shop here up in Toronto, we're seeing literally at least one transaction a week in the U.S. rental housing with capital appreciation of single family homes.

And so my question is, do you still have the same outlook that you were going to be able to get any scale in that business? There is so much competition from guys that are just published headlines and aren't in the business to guys that are actually doing it, I mean as you are probably aware SBR did a CAD 200 million, sort of pre-IPO deal a week ago. There was a Canadian one-off deal in Florida, all kinds of stuff chasing this is the product there or the pricing is a pricing going to be able to be attained to achieve the kind of returns that you anticipated.

Hi Jeff. It's Gary. We just answered that question, but I'll elaborate. You can playback afterwards. First of all, there is certainly a lot of headline, it's a strategy [indiscernible] (28:47) for sure, everyone is considering it. Jefferies is going to be having a conference in the later part of May in D.C. I can tell you that every major real estate private equity player will be there to listen in on what people are doing. But at this point in time, there is a lot more people looking and thinking, have been talking about this strategy and actually doing it in an institutional way. We're one of the very few groups that is actually doing it today.

I mentioned the competition in my earlier remarks, it's limited. You have to keep in mind that this is an enormous market. We're planning with the bought offering, bought deal and any leverage we use, we're planning to buy a 1,000 homes. Our ultimate goal would probably be to acquire 5,000 homes, which would require about $500 million of capital both equity and debt, that would be a big accomplishment, 5,000 homes. It is a drop in the bucket compared to the size of the market.

The size of the market today is 4 million units, that is the excess amount of – or shadow inventory represents the excess amount of distressed inventory of what we would typically consider to be normal. There are other people that think that, that shadow inventory will ultimately be about 7 million units or 8 million units. So it goes to show that our activities while maybe large and meaningful for Tricon are really appetence compared to the entire market. And the same holds for any other player in Wall Street who wanted to try and implement the strategy. We believe that we will have our capital largely invested within the next few months.

So, as I mentioned on my earlier remark, so I think that speaks to the fact that we don't see any issues with being able to allocate the capital. The real question is, when does this other inventory come to the market, that's really the big question mark that nobody knows. Right now the banks and the GSTs are holding that inventory, and it's really a question of how they release it. Part of the reason the inventory is dried up is because of the robo-signing [indiscernible] (30:51) and that's now being worked out through the Attorney General Settlement.

So we're going to start to see more inventory come back in the market, it's just a question of when. Obviously the banks and the GSTs are smart, they know that they flout the market at one time, they're going to get lower pricing. So they're going to release it over time. And we're going to see that the opportunities on a month-to-month basis in terms of buying foreclosure assets is going to ebb and flow, some months we're going to see more listings than normal, others we're going to see less. So we'll see how the strategy evolves, but we don't see any issue with being able to place our capital and get the returns we mentioned.

That's fantastic.

Sorry just one question to answer your point, the fact that the prices might be increasing in certain markets and certainly in Phoenix, we're seeing pricing increase. We have the flexibility to move from market to market from that point of view. So again, to Gary's point, it's such a large market that if some markets starts running ahead of us, we can easily exit that market.

Yeah.

I would say...

Well, that...

In Phoenix, it's is becoming much tougher to get the desired yields in Phoenix because inventory is depressed, has come down extremely significantly over the last year or so. But there are other markets, for example in Riverside or Southeast Florida where there is more inventory, and it's much easier to get the yield. So we may have to be flexible as we pursue this, but the market is enormous.

Well, you touched on my follow-on question, which was what are the – my understanding is, you're not doing per se absolutely directly you're working with local partners with experience, and some profile and capabilities in a local or regional market. So where are you guys targeting right now by market?

Okay. So we're targeting the Greater Sacramento region, we're targeting the Greater San Francisco Bay region, we're targeting Inland Empire predominantly closer in Riverside, San Bernardino, also ultimately may look at San Diego and parts of East LA County. We're looking at Phoenix, we're looking – as I mentioned on the call earlier, we just signed a term sheet with a partner to cover Southeast Florida for us that would be Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm East Counties, and we may also look to partner with someone in Atlanta. These are all markets that we're currently operating in, in our private fund business, the markets we know well.

The reason we've chosen these markets is, because they've obviously been hard hit by the housing downturn in great recession, but we also think that the markets that are going to come back as the economy recoveries, and so we'll see home price appreciation. So, our strategy is to really provide a blend of good rental yields from, obviously from the rental operations that also position ourselves for price depreciation, so we want to do both. That's why, we are not looking to do this in Detroit, we can go in Detroit, probably get very attractive rental yields, but we might not get the home price appreciation. So we are trying to really look for total return.

How about Texas?

We need to look at Texas, because we are also in that, we are also in Dallas and Houston, but as you know, Texas was not as hard hit, we didn't see the same price declines in the markets I previously mentioned, we saw home prices come down roughly 50%, meaning come down anywhere near that in Texas. So, there is kind of just better opportunities, when you look at some of the metrics in the other markets, but it's not to say that we wouldn't look at Texas, but we probably look at them more selectively and down the road.

Thank you very much.

Speakers, we currently have no more questions at this time. Please proceed.

Thanks, operator. In concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in August when we discuss our results for the second quarter of 2012. Thank you all.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Please disconnect your lines and thank you for attending.