Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — President & Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Aaron, and I will be your operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Q1 2013 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, we'll have a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr. David Berman, Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Berman, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Aaron. Good morning, everyone. And thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ending March 31, 2013, which results were set out in the news release we distributed earlier this morning. Our quarterly financial statements and MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR. Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until May 16.

Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our limited partnership funds and our single-family portfolio. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent short-form prospectus and our Annual Information Form which are available on SEDAR.

I will start with the summary of this quarter's highlights. Our CFO, June Alikhan will then briefly review our key financial results; Gary Berman, Tricon's President will then provide an overview of our single-family rental and asset management business, after which Glenn Watchorn, Jon Ellenzweig and Adrian Rocca will join us as we take your questions.

This morning, we announced record financial results, including adjusted EBITDA of over CAD 15 million, driven largely by the success of our single-family rental platform. When we launched this platform in April 2012, our message to investors was that we would be able to buy homes, which would appreciate meaningfully in value and in the interim, generate cash flow through rental income.

This quarter's results delivered on both of these fronts. The fair value of our single-family rental portfolio increased by CAD 11.7 million also making provision for performance fees potentially, and I stress the word potentially, potentially payable to operating partners, a 7% quarterly increase and we generated single-family net operating income of CAD 2,136,000 nearly triple the CAD 800,000 earned in Q4 2012.

We acquired an additional 318 homes during the quarter, which were lower than in previous quarters, is reflective of the seasonality in the U.S. housing industry. Accordingly, I do expect the pace to pick up in the second quarter. That being said, as the sale of inventory declines in some of our West Coast markets, good investment opportunities in those markets are becoming more difficult to find, but finding them we are and this is where we're focused [indiscernible] (03:22) rather than short-term approach continues to pay dividends.

At the same time, however, we also have to see very attractive opportunities in markets in which we are currently do not operate and Gary will address this in greater detail later on in this call.

Results for our asset management business have been extremely stable and are reflective of the sticky nature of our private equity funds. We continue to solicit new investors for Tricon 11 and although the U.S. fund rising environment remains very tough, we're making inroads on that front.

However, some larger potential investors had a stated preference for co-investments or separately managed accounts. We're actively contemplating one such opportunity, where we may be able to use our balance sheet to waive out a large U.S. distressed land in judgment and then spin it off into a future separate account. We also continue to maintain an extremely strong investment pipeline, in particular in the U.S. for future plannings and separate accounts.

Finally, I'm also pleased to announce that on May 8, our Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on June 30. The dividend will be payable on July 15, 2013.

With that I will now turn our presentation over to June for a summary of how we have performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thanks, David. Tricon's financial results released earlier today are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, and are presented in Canadian dollars unless noted otherwise. Managements discussions and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website at SEDAR.

As David previously noted, Tricon's single-family rental strategy has driven significant increases in all key financial metrics for the quarter, and year-over-year revenue growth of 374%. Year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth was 778% and year-over-year adjusted net income growth of 664%. Furthermore, adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 233% from CAD 0.06 to CAD 0.20.

The growth is often accompanied by growing payments, and as the company grows and in anticipation of further growth, we've had to incur some incremental expenses largely related to single-family rental strategy else, as well as other new growth initiatives. Specifically, our salaries and benefits increased by CAD 268,000 year-over-year, driven by the addition of one new Vice President, several accounting staffs and two dedicated U.S. based consultants.

Our professional fees also increased by CAD 436,000 year-over-year of which CAD 316,000 are non-recurring and related to restructuring our single-family rental business into a REIT and other new strategic growth initiatives. The remainder of this increase related largely to higher audit fees, which one would expect given the growth of our company and the addition of a second sizable business line.

I will now turn the presentation over to Gary Berman, who will provide some additional insights on single-family rental business and on the residential real estate market in the United States and Canada.

Thanks, June. Overall, we are pleased with the performance of our single-family rental business segment with occupancy and profit margins increasing nicely, net operating income substantially higher quarter-over-quarter and significant increases in the fair market value of the properties reflecting underlying increases and home price appreciation.

As David noted, we recorded a fair value adjustment of CAD 14.5 million during the quarter before making provisions for operating performance fees which was largely driven by higher values for the shareholder portfolio and solid quarterly HPA of 3% to 5% in our other markets.

This is consistent with the HPA projections of market experts and obviously reflects well on the prospects for this business segment going forward. Reward on operator performance fees, IFRS requires us to book [indiscernible] (07:37) performance fees for operating partners even though they haven't been earned. As a rule of thumb, when thinking about operator performance fees, assume that our operators received 20% of proceeds from the partnership after we received an 8% annual return on our equity. These proceeds will not be paid out until disposition of the portfolio or another liquidity event. Aside from operations in LA county, which are still in ramp up mode, we achieved an average gross operating margin of 61% in Q1, up meaningfully from 51% in Q4, largely as a result of having more stabilized homes in the portfolio. For instance our occupancy in Q1 was 76%, in Q4, 2012, 69%. More importantly, we've not seen any operational surprises and in fact the results were coming in very close to underwriting, both on the top-line basis and bottom-line basis.

Our portfolio of homes-owned six months or longer dropped to 91% in quarter end, but increased to 95% after the quarter with strong leasing in April, this is not necessarily surprising given that January and February are historically slow leasing months. As David noted, acquisitions were slow in January and February, but has began to ramp up. T0hat being said, it is clear that the opportunity is shrinking in California and Phoenix, and we're carefully evaluating expansion markets such as Tampa and Orlando in East Coast, Las Vegas and Denver in the Western U.S., and San Antonio in Texas. We also intent to channel future growth through our existing operator partners similar to our Lake Success and for Charlotte, last year.

Competition remains robust, however we're still able to be very selective and have been told by multiple sources that our yields and operating performance are tops in the industry. On average we expect to deploy CAD 20 million to CAD 25 million of capital on a monthly basis. Although this will ebb and flow over time, and in general we remain on track to reach our target of at least 3,000 homes by year end.

We're in the final process of documenting a CAD 100 million credit facility. As of Q1, we still had roughly CAD 85 million of cash on balance sheet, so we've not felt pressure to close. The proceeds from the initial credit facility and any potential upsizing should enable us to continue to buy homes throughout the year, meaning that we should now need to come back to the equity market this year to grow our single-family rental platform. The industry is also getting close through securitization, which will ultimately lower Tricon's foreign costs and meaningfully 0enhance our cash and cash returns.

Moving over to our land and home building business, we continue to see a dichotomy between the U.S. and Canadian markets, where the U.S. recoveries become more entrenched, while the overall Canadian housing market has languished. Starting in Canada, there is no question that the government induced policy intervention is succeeding and slowing down the Canadian housing market. On a national basis, resale volumes are down roughly 10% year-over-year and prices are relatively flat, although negative on a real basis.

In Toronto and Vancouver, resale volumes were down approximately 15% to 20% respectively, which should lead to continued price softening in Vancouver and ultimately price declines in Toronto later this year. In the new home market, national starts are down roughly 15% year-over-year. And so we are in the midst of a correction, which at this point looks like a well-orchestrated soft landing.

There is of course differences across the submarkets and we are seeing strength in the Edmonton and Calgary markets, with resale volumes, pricing and new home activity on an upward trend, both by the relative help of the energy sector and decreasing inventory. We repeatedly talked about how we have little unsold inventory in the Toronto condo market. But what we haven't said is, our existing exposures are largely located in Alberta, where we have approximately 74% of our unsold inventory by unit count. And this is precisely where we want to have [indiscernible] (11:28) Toronto condo inventory, as we shift benefit from the strengthening market and higher prices.

For example, our Calgary East Village project, Q1 sales were brisk even after raising prices. Our first phase is now under construction, and we're well-positioned for the launch of future [indiscernible] (11:45) later this year. In the Toronto and Vancouver condo mini market, the Asian investor has generally taken a hiatus from buying, but will return when prices rebalance or stabilize. Recent launches that have dropped pricing roughly 10% from peak have seen some success and in the process have established a new core for pricing.

In addition, projects that were completed over the quarter, and which typically started selling three years to four years ago, have been able to close units without any difficulty. This is certainly the case for [indiscernible] (12:16) and Six50 King project which were completed and closed during the quarter. In both of these projects, there was little or no issues related to conversion of roughly 800 sale contracts to closings.

The successful completion of these projects resulted in roughly CAD 25 million of distributions to our Tricon ALPs and a corresponding decrease in Tricon AUM. While this will reduce our management fees, it brings us one step closer to realizing performance fees. We initially anticipated that Tricon Inc. would generate performance fees in late 2013, but are now revising our guidance to the second half of 2014, given the unforeseen delays at two other projects.

The overall quantum of performance fees at Tricon Inc. remain intact and performance fees for all our funds in separate accounts are now tracking higher than what we projected last year. We remind everyone that the purpose of this commentary is to give our shareholders and analysts more insight into the housing markets and our prospects for performance fees. Apart from the related fee streams, the company's exposure to the Canadian housing market is de minimis.

The U.S. housing market continued its acceleration on all fronts in the first quarter of 2013. New and resale inventories remained at record low levels, which are putting further pressure on pricing and makes new home construction more compelling to both builders and consumers. New home prices were up roughly 4% to 5% in the quarter and sales rates were up roughly 25% year-over-year.

The concern surrounding foreclosures and shadow inventory is gradually feeding into the background. The pipeline of delinquency is diminishing rapidly, given the focus by bank for modifications, and pre-foreclosure alternatives such as short sales. In addition, the fault notices, which are really the first stage of foreclosure process continued to drop and are now down more than 60% over the last three years.

With that being said, there are still approximately three million homes with mortgages that are either delinquent or in a foreclosure process than what will be expected to see in a normalized market, and these homes will eventually change hands over the next two years to three years.

A major driver of the increase in new home activity stems from the pent-up demand from those households who've previously been sitting on the fence. For instance, there was a shortfall in households from 2009 through 2011 of approximately CAD 2.8 million based on the Impeded Household information from actual population growth. However since the beginning of 2012, the number of additional household form has exceeded what we would expect household formation to be from national population growth by roughly one million units. The strong underlying demand coupled with historically low inventory has enabled builders to increase prices on [indiscernible] (14:53) monthly basis without affecting absorption.

An example of this is our [indiscernible] (14:59) projects in Atlanta, where we have raised prices and closed as many homes in Q1, 2013 as we did overall in 2012. At Cross Creek Rach, our separate account transaction in Houston, home prices were up 10%, and sales have more than doubled year-over-year.

In closing, I would like to say that Tricon 11, our latest U.S. land fund, will likely be the best performing fund in our 25 history, and is currently projected to produce roughly 25% gross returns, with minimal leverage at the transaction level. Further, if the market continues to strengthen, and we believe it will, the returns on our existing investments could increase materially, as land is the major beneficiary of higher home prices given the inherent operating leverage in the land, and homebuilding business.

I will now turn it back over to David.

Thank you, Gary. It's almost question time, but before I open up the floor to questions, I would like to conclude by saying, as I discussed last quarter that Tricon continues to pursue opportunistic residential real estate investments across the United States and Canada, and is working towards the ultimate goal of becoming a one-stop shop for residential real estate, investors, developers and operators. I believe that our current platforms of financing residential development and acquiring, renovating and leasing single-family homes are just as we thought. And over the years, we will at the appropriate times increase related and complementary business lines.

[indiscernible] (16:26) our underlying operating strategy, [indiscernible] (16:33) asset manager for our investors and for ourselves, we look forward to adding value for our shareholders in the quarters and years to come and appreciate your faith in the company and our management team.

We now welcome questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

The first question I had was just with the San Francisco office something, I know I think you've kind of talked about doing that previously. I just wanted to get a sense as to how you plan to staff that? And whether or not given the amount of business you do in the U.S. whether or not there might be additional office openings or whether or not you can just service that from Toronto since East Coast is relatively close?

The office were open on June 1. I think we've mentioned before that three of Tricon's employees, managers will be coming down. Jon Ellenzweig, who's here with us today, Jeremy Scheetz and Faisal Ratansi, will be going down to San Fran on June 1. When we decided to open the office, we really looked at where our business was and from a travel perspective and in any ways, we can cover the East Coast. I guess even – and the Mid Coast whether it be mid parts of the United States and Canada, Edmonton, Calgary and Houston. From Toronto direct flights to all of those cities, and then we will cover the whole of the West Coast from San Francisco, which is another way of saying that we don't really expect to open any more offices in the short-term.

Okay, and great. And the other question I had was – and you guys were talking about potentially looking at other cities to expand the single-family rental business. And so far the cities you've been in have been once where you have had previous experience in. But I think from your list, Denver would be an area that I don't think or I am not sure whether or not you've got prior experience. And I am just wondering how that plays into the equation as to how you decide the attractiveness of the market, but also your previous experience operating in that certain geographic area?

Sure.

Sure, Geoff. This is Jonathan Ellenzweig, and it's a very good question. In terms of the markets that we named on this call in Western U.S., Las Vegas is a market where we have financed condominium development in one of our previous funds, and have spent extensive time over the recent past as we're looking for land development opportunities. So we know that city very well. Denver is also a city where over the last 10 years we visited numerous time to look at financing, both land and condominium development. And we actually had one project in Denver, actually one of our earlier fund, so we actually have quite a track record in network relationships in Denver.

And then in terms of Texas, Gary named San Antonio, and then secondarily we would also look at a couple other markets there, and we do have an extensive network there based on our transactions in Dallas. And Houston we also were previously in Dallas. So, we feel confident and confident in our ability to enter those markets.

In the East Coast, I think we mentioned Tampa and Orlando and although we haven't financed transactions directly in those markets again over the past 5 years to 10 years we've been to those markets numerous times and have strong relationships there that carryover from our Southeast Florida market as well. So, we do feel very comfortable that we have a network, we have experienced in these markets and again we would spend a lot of time on the ground in these markets before [indiscernible] (20:10).

And so, I guess, I think there was also kind of mentioned Tampa, Orlando and then East Coast with that...

Tampa and Orlando on the East Coast and then Vegas, Denver and San Antonio.

Okay. So I wasn't sure what East Coast meant, other places in addition to Tampa and Orlando.

No, no. We mean the eastern half of the U.S. We're not looking at anything kind of specifically on the East Coast or the North East at this point in time.

Okay. Perfect. That's everything for me. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from line of Jimmy Shan from GMP Securities. Your line is now open.

Thanks. With respect to the reappraisals on the fair market value adjustments of CAD 14.5 million. How much of that would you say is attributable to Charlotte and how much of that would be for the remaining portfolio?

Sure. And this is Jonathan again. Thanks, Jim. That's a good question. I think, as Gary noted, if you look at the homes that we owned at year end and [indiscernible] (21:11) forward to Q1, the value of those homes in our markets generally went up 3% to 5%. That is a home that we valued at CAD 100,000 a year [indiscernible] (21:22) CAD 103,000 to CAD 105,000 at Q1. So, that made of a meaningful component of the valuation and the remainder with Charlotte. So, Charlotte obviously would be a meaningful partner [indiscernible] (21:33) other markets.

Okay. So, I don't know what the math. Do you have the – in terms of the math is that – are we talking about CAD 10 million to CAD 14 million then or...?

As you know we prefer not to specifically state what the HPA is and what the total increase in value is from each market or portfolio. We're really trying to get guidance and obviously we're reporting it as is, but we prefer not to tell you exactly how that breaks example.

But suffice to say the majority did come from Charlotte.

Right. And so, when I'm trying to get out – I mean let's just put a number – I mean I'll pick the number. Let's say it's CAD 10 million and you bought that portfolio for CAD 26 million I mean that's a pretty sizeable gain just in three months?

Yeah. as far as...

...and that's just reflective of the purchase price you got was a good price?

Yeah. Without commenting on the CAD 10 million number, I definitely – there was a big increase and when we bought it we said and I think that we believe we had a really great buy. And that has basically improved our – I guess our policy of really researching and get into other markets before we went in there and so you've started to see that being reflected in the results this quarter.

Okay, okay. Turning to the performance fees and so Cross Creek, I noted that this quarter the projected net cash flow from that fund is fairly enormous. So just wanted in terms of the performance fees relating to that fund, are they similar to your existing commingled funds or are there anything structurally different there or how do we project performance fees on that fund?

They are structurally similar in terms of the type that the percentage to promote and how to calculate it. I don't have the exact performance fee calculation for that project. Do we have that in the ...?

Yeah. Why don't you give me a call, Jimmy, and we can walk through. It's very similar to the calculations for the other ones.

Okay. And then, with [indiscernible] (23:33) and the performance fee that you would be expecting which you're willing to provide some sort of high level guidance on what that number could look like next year?

I think we prefer to keep it more general Jimmy. We are as you know in our MD&A providing I think pretty good disclosure as to what the projected net cash flow is for each bond. And we also provide good guidance as to how to back-off the expenses and management fees and then arrive it at the performance fee. So I think all that disclosure is there. It becomes more difficult for us to actually specifically project performance fees on a quarter-to-quarter basis just given the fact that these projects sometimes get delayed. For example, we talked about we have a couple of delays at two projects in Toronto. Those projects are generally going well, but we've had weather issues, we've had permit issues, we've had a strife with dry wall. So there is things that happen which just make it very difficult for us to predict that with any kind of uncertainty. So that's why we try to get more kind of overall guidance rather than specific guidance on the performance fees.

Good. Fair enough. Then lastly, then on the Tricon XXI, the second clause I think, I heard you say that – it may well, be that you're – you may have set a new separate account instead of a second close on that fund. Is that how I should read this?

Partially yes, partially no. We're still expecting to have a second close. As I did mention, it's a very, very tough market and it does take the investors a long time to make up your mind and to ultimately close. So which will come first, I don't know at this stage but definitely we are working on some separate accounts and we do expect to see at least one of them this year.

Okay. Sorry, one more. In the press release you talked about a growing pipeline of value add line of investments. Is that in reference to potential new separate account, or is that something else that you guys are contemplating?

It's a combination of both, obviously we're in the market, our developers are in the market looking for transactions, and so we are seeing good transactions, but at the same time we do note that we have one or two execution investors who will go into Covington funds and running two separate accounts. And so we're entertaining those opportunities as well with a view to put them into the separate accounts and one of those is definitely pretty close to coming into being.

Okay. Hey, guys, thanks.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Jenny Ma from Canaccord Genuity. Your line is now open.

Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Jenny.

I just wanted to, I guess get a better idea of the Tricon 11 fund. I want to reconcile your comments first saying that this would be the best performing fund in a reputed company versus some investors having hesitation to mix. Can you talk about what's holding them back, because is the performance expected to be very good? What is the best [indiscernible] (26:47)?

Yeah, hi, Jenny, this is Gary, that's I think a very interesting observation. There's no question that we're in a really difficult fund raising environment that really has I think in many ways nothing to do with the potential opportunities in what we're doing in the performance of our fund. It's just that in real estate institutional world, the vast majority of institutions have not received any realizations from a long time from really any real estate funds. And therefore, they don't have the same amount of allocations to reinvest as they did in the past.

Two, in the institutional world, land is very much a four letter word, it is a four letter word, but it is still a lot of people lost money in land and are somewhat hesitant to go back into it. So these two things I think are working against us. But on the other hand, they are also creating more opportunities for us, because there is less capital coming into the stage, which allows us to find some pretty incredible deals. So they kind of go hand-in-hand. We are still optimistic that we will have future closes for – for try kind of 11, but [indiscernible] (28:02) world, it's just a very, very challenging environment notwithstanding the great opportunities.

So that end would you increase Tricon's investments in the fund, do you take advantage of that opportunities?

I couldn't really hear you, are you asking whether Tricon would consider increasing its co-investment?

Yes.

Yeah. I mean, yeah, that's something that we might consider, we might consider and you're seeing, obviously we have to manage our – we have to manage our capital carefully and certainly we have a cost to capital and a dividend to pay so those were all things that we need to manage carefully. But, it's something we might consider.

Great. That's all from me. Thanks.

You have a follow-up question from Jimmy Shan from GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Yeah. Just a quick follow up. In terms of the debt securitization, is that – is there been any update on that front and how do you look at that opportunity relative to the credit facility that you're about to be closing on?

Sure, Jimmy. That's a good question. I think we talked about earlier a couple of weeks ago, I was down at a large conference in Miami at the beginning of April, and there were several panel discussions focused on the debt part of the business and securitization. Deutsche Bank appears to be the leader in that market right now and Deutsche had a speaker as well as other councils on the panel and it's very clear from their comments that, they're actively working on securitization and expect that to happen in the next couple of quarters. In terms of how that impacts us, obviously the credits, so we were working on will be a warehousing with revolver type facility, whereby we would finance assets and then eventually rolled them off with securitization. So as sooner, as market securitization event takes place, as sooner we would have the opportunity to take advantage of that as well. And in terms of rates and advance rates, which is expected that, securitization would probably allow something like a 70% to 75% loan-to-value advance rate, as the interest rates of low 3%.

But I think it's safe to say that the two of them work together. That's right. Ideally, you need the credit facility to be able to acquire the properties and then you are almost into the securitization.

Okay. And then just on the margin front and on the single-family rental, I mean, 61% on 76% occupancy, and I know historically before you'd talked about targeting a 60% margin. Or I'm not sure, if you said 70% or 60%, but it seems to me that based on this metric that 70% margin is likely to be achievable once the portfolio is fully stabilized, is that a fairway to look at it?

I would say that 70% would be an aggressive assumption, I think just based on the experience in our portfolio to-date, we have seen that as a whole our maintenance and kind of ongoing CapEx obligations have been lower than what we've underwritten. We do typically underwrite a meaningful reserve. That being said over time, I wouldn't be surprised if we did have some increase in maintenance cost. So I think that 70% will be an aggressive assumption at this time.

But when that would be an fixed amount of – fixed cost from you – in your portfolio right now such that 70% of [indiscernible] (31:15) 61%.

[Multiple Speaker] (31:18)

Sorry. It's important to also understand that for some of the homes that are in the rehab process, ongoing expenses for those homes are capitalized, so it don't impact our expense line. So although there are some expenses that will improve when you go from CAD 69 million to CAD 76 million some of the actual costs that you incurred to capitalize [indiscernible] (31:37)...

Okay.

So you won't get it to draw down to 70%, because you'll see a shift in the way [indiscernible] (31:42).

Okay. Got it. Great. Thanks.

And there are no further questions in the queue. I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, Aaron. And thanks to all. In concluding, we do appreciate you being on the call. And we look forward to speaking to you in August, when we discuss our results for the second quarter of 2013.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.