Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Margaret Whelan — Chief Financial Officer & Head-Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Stephen D. MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Wojtek K. Nowak — Analyst, AltaCorp Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Keith, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Third Quarter Investor Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.

After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. David Berman, CEO, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Keith. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ending September 30, 2014, which were shared in the news release we distributed yesterday afternoon. Our financial statements and MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR.

Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible by telephone until November 19.

Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our private funds and principal investment vehicles.

This information, by its nature, is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent short-form prospectus and AIF, Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR.

With that, now I'd like to make some prepared remarks. I will start by reviewing a summary of the third quarter highlights. Margaret Whelan, our CFO, will then review our key financial results. And then, I will provide an update and overview of our various verticals, including AUM, Private Funds and Advisory, Land and Homebuilding, Single-Family Rental, and Manufactured Housing Communities, as Gary has partially lost his voice. Other members of our team will then join us as we take your questions.

I'd like to start by welcoming all of you to our call, in particular, the six new analysts who have picked up research coverage on our stock this year, bringing the total to 10. We appreciate the hard work, perspective and encouragement that each of you provides and we look forward to working together to tell our story.

But, on that score, I know we have moved the tables around this quarter and I apologize for making your lives more difficult. I promise we won't make any more changes, at least, not until next year. As a housekeeping matter, you may know that in September, we changed the names of our funds to better reflect our underlying strategy and asset profile, again, making it more difficult for you to follow. But on this call and going forward, we will be referring to the funds by their new names.

But to avoid confusion, let me just list for you the relevant changes. In Canada, Tricon XII LP now called Tricon Housing Partners Canada III or THP3 Canada. And in the U.S., Tricon IX, Tricon Housing Partners US LP, which is referred to as THP1 US; Tricon XI LP now called Tricon Housing Partners US II LP, THP2 U.S.; and our new prospective U.S. LP, Tricon Housing Partners US III LP, THP3 US.

Tricon has continued to evolve in 2014. And I am very proud that our team was able to deliver a 49% year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA for the first nine months of the year, reflecting meaningful growth in each of our business lines. This progress has been driven by our success in securing attractive investment opportunities, while quickly assimilating them to deliver bottom line results.

As Gary will discuss shortly, the principal investments we have made in both Tricon American Homes and THP2 US have allowed us to strengthen our balance sheet and produce more cash flow to support larger co-investments and bigger deals. We are redeploying our capital and assets into new transactions, which, through October, has supported 44% year-over-year growth in both our total and externally-managed AUM. While our focus, as an asset manager, has always been on residential real estate, we are now benefiting from more stable income, given the breadth of verticals we are building.

On the back of a strong first half of the year, we continue to deliver meaningful growth across the board in the third quarter, reflected in the 22% year-over-year increase in quarterly adjusted base revenue to CAD 21.6 million and an 11% year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA to CAD 19.6 million.

This growth was the result of two primary drivers. The first is our burgeoning Single-Family Rental platform, Tricon American Homes, which added 408 homes in the quarter, contributing to a total of 4,682 homes owned by the end of September. This growth, which represents a 65% year-over-year increase, continues to be funded primarily by a dedicated and recently upsized credit facility for the platform along with select equity investments as we enter new markets. Our acquisition program focuses on markets with robust long-term housing fundamentals, where we can achieve our target yield parameters.

In the last couple of quarters, our purchasing activity has centered around the Southeast and Texas, in particular, Houston, where we really have a strong presence through our land development and homebuilding business. We are on track to meet or exceed our goal of owning 5,000 homes by early next year.

This quarter's growth in the number of homes owned and occupied resulted in a portfolio-wide occupancy rate of 83%, which contributed to 113% year-over-year increase in rental revenue. More importantly, we delivered a record NOI margin of 66.2% and net operating incoming of CAD 8.99 million (sic) [CAD 8.89 million] (05:59).

The second growth driver came from a 31% increase in contractual fees, essentially, the result of the contribution flowing from our 50.1% interest in Johnson. We believe the near-term performance of our Private Funds and Advisory business is best measured by growth in our externally managed AUM, which increased 32% year-over-year through the end of September and 44% year-over-year through the end of October level reflecting the addition of another syndicated investment of separate account.

While we have no near-term plans to raise a successor fund for THP3 Canada, we are very active in the United States. THP2 US, [indiscernible] (06:42) is approximately 73% committed at the end of Q3 before factoring in four additional investments currently controlled under letters of intent, all of which are expected to close in the next two months. As a result, THP2 US will be essentially fully committed before year-end. Accordingly, we have commenced marketing activities for our successor fund, THP3 US, with the intent of having a first close in the first half of 2015.

As I mentioned a few moments ago, the increase in AUM, which took place in October, was a result of a closing in that month of a $103.5 million separate account investment to support the planned acquisition, development and sale of 1,079 homes in an age-targeted, resort style community located on the border of North Scottsdale in Phoenix, Arizona.

One of Tricon's institutional partners committed $93.1 million to match our $10.4 million co-invest. Over the next year or so, the contractual fees flowing from the syndicated investments we've made this year in a separate account should offset the reduction in fees, which is expected to happen as THP1 US realizes its investments

As you may recall, in April 2014, we announced this new strategic initiative focused on acquiring and managing existing Manufactured Housing Communities, sometimes referred to as MHC across the United States. On August 27, Tricon and our partner, Cobblestone Real Estate, purchased our first investment, a 100% freehold interest in a manufactured housing community located in the Northwest quadrant of Phoenix, Arizona. The purchase consideration was capitalized with $3.9 million of equity and $10.6 million of long-term debt secured on attractive terms from Freddie Mac.

Finally, I'm also pleased to announce that on November 11 our board of directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on December 31. The dividend will be payable on January 15, 2015.

With that, I will now turn our presentation over to Margaret for a summary of how we have performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. As David mentioned, our adjusted base revenue for the third quarter of CAD 21.6 million rose 22% year-over-year. In the Private Funds and Advisory business, contractual fees of CAD 7.4 million increased 31% year-over-year. Our acquisition in April of a majority position in Johnson generated CAD 2.9 million in fees for the quarter which offset a 22% decline in the fees in our U.S. investments largely due to a difficult comparison.

Investment income from our Land and Homebuilding business decreased 6% as a result of a declining investment base as we continue to sell assets and return capital back to investors. Rental revenue earned by Tricon American Homes continued to grow as the number of homes occupied increased 70% year-over-year.

Though we provided only a modest contribution to our third quarter results, we're very excited to have recorded an overall investment income from our Manufactured Housing Communities vertical, which was established this summer.

Adjusted base EBITDA rose 4% year-over-year, modest relative to the 22% revenue growth, and aside from the increase in salaries and benefits associated with Johnson, this reflects the investments we are making in our team and platforms position our business for a strong future.

We have increased our head count significantly this year, and we continue to invest in improving our processes and use of IT. Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter increased 11% year-over-year to CAD 19.6 million, driven in part by further fair value adjustments at Tricon American Homes.

Adjusted net income of CAD 9.6 million declined 21% year-over-year, primarily as a result of an 89% increase in interest expense, in particular, to support the growth in the Single-Family Rental business.

Finally, adjusted basic earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter decreased by 39% and 36% year-over-year to CAD 0.11 and CAD 0.09, respectively, mainly due to the significant increase in our share count.

Since the IPO in the spring of 2010, our asset base has increased more than tenfold to the CAD 738 million currently. This foundation has allowed us to improve our liquidity meaningfully this year. In April, we increased our corporate credit facility to CAD 105 million from CAD 45 million, while in August, we increased the dedicated credit facility of Tricon American Homes to $400 million from $250 million.

In addition, we've continued to generate meaningful cash flow as we harvest investments in THP1 US and as we will discuss later, we expect to have a liquidity event when we refinance the debt on Tricon American Homes through securitizations early next year.

As we wrap up 2014, we have a robust pipeline of deal flow across our business verticals to continue growing towards our target of CAD 5 billion in AUM within five years. Our current expectation is that all of the transactions we're contemplating will be financed through internally generated cash flow.

On October 6, we renewed our annual NCIB, which allows us to repurchase and cancel shares in the open market. This time, we changed the terms of the NCIB to allow us to purchase up to 10% of our flow or 6.3 million shares from 5% of the total in the previous agreement. We also put an APP, automatic purchase plan, in place, to allow our agent to buy in stock within parameters when we're in the quiet period. Under this program and through November 10, we have repurchased 584,000 shares at an average price of CAD 7.74.

Since our fee income and asset base are substantially in the U.S., several of you have asked if we hedge our foreign currency exposure or if we would consider changing our functional or reporting currency or dividend to U.S. dollars. We do not currently have any hedges in place, but we continue to monitor and analyze the most responsible FX alternatives available.

With that, I'll turn the call back to David.

Thanks, Margaret. As we close our 2014, I'm excited to update you on the progress we're making across our business and towards our goal of establishing Tricon as a diversified housing brand. As we've discussed for some time now, our goal is to control related business lines in the residential real estate industry that offer shareholders and limited partners added diversification across the full spectrum of housing, from affordable housing to affordable luxury.

To this end, 2014 has been a year of consolidation, a conscious effort to absorb previous acquisitions and ready ourselves for future growth. Although it may have been counter-intuitive to some, we've spent much of 2012 and 2013 moving up our balance sheets on principal or investment area so that we could become a bigger, a better long-term asset manager.

A larger balance sheet enables us to make bigger co-investments and [indiscernible] (14:05) assets for future funds or investment vehicles. This provides substantial value to limited partners or institutions in a more competitive private fundraising world post the financial crisis and a greater fee stream for Tricon.

From a shareholder perspective, it also allows us to grow more quickly while diversifying our fee and income and reduce the risk of being overly concentrated in any one vertical. We are often asked how our income might change if interest rates or home prices were to move meaningfully.

With our investments on the for-sale side in Land and Housebuilding and on the Rental side through Tricon American Homes, we have created a natural hedge in our earnings stream that should cushion our results in the event of large fluctuations in these sectors. In a sense, 2014 is back to the future as the growth of our third-party capital under management and assets on our balance sheet have begun to even out with both up 40% year-on-year through the end of October.

We have also substantially bulked up our finance and our accounting team, including EVP of Corporate Finance, Wissam Francis; VP of Finance, Private Funds, Doug Quesnel, and the VP of Finance of Tax, Sandra Pereira, as well as hiring David Veneziano, VP, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary and also in charge of Compliance.

A stronger back office will provide the foundation to support our goal to grow our AUM at a very meaningful 20% CAGR from roughly CAD 2.3 million today to approximately CAD 5 billion over five years by establishing ourselves as a nascent housing brand with related and complementary residential vehicles. We believe we can achieve this growth by methodically building out each business line, particularly Single-Family Rental and Manufactured Housing Communities and potentially adding one or two more verticals in years to come.

Let me recap some highlights of our third quarter results and these recently announced transactions. Private Funds and Advisory. In this business, we closed two syndicated Land and Housebuilding investments in Q3, namely Arantine Hills in Corona, California, and Trilogy at Lake Norman in Charlotte, North Carolina increasing our third-party AUM 32% year-over-year. Subsequent to quarter end, we announced the closing of our $103.5 million separate account that I mentioned earlier to support the acquisition and development of a major Trilogy-branded Active Adult Community near North Scottsdale in Phoenix driving 44% year-over-year growth in externally managed AUM.

As has been discussed, the $334 million housing fund, THP2 US, is now essentially fully committed in less than one year since final closing. And we have begun efforts to raise a successor fund, which will be named Tricon Housing Partners US III and will have a similar investment strategy. We are hoping to raise at least the same amount of capital as THP2 and have a first closing in the first half of 2015 which will lead to further growth in our externally managed funds.

Our 50.1% investment in Johnson's Development and Management Company generated CAD 918,000 to Tricon, that is net of NCI in Q3 nearly double the income received in a slightly truncated Q2. We acquired the business on April 15. Tricon's 50.1% share of pre-tax income since the April acquisition is approximately CAD 1.4 million, which represents a nearly 8% unlevered yield on our $18.4 million investment for only five and a half months. Tricon owns or controls approximately 20,000 lots and 1,250 commercial acres. And so we expect our investment to be a source of contractual fee income for years to come with income ramping up further in Q4 based on the land sales backlog in place.

Land and Homebuilding. Notwithstanding that income was down slightly year-over-year, we had a good quarter with THP1 US distributions up 20% since the second quarter and the prospects for substantially more cash flow in future quarters even more [ph] show us (18:32) the final plan approval for Faria Preserve, a marquee land asset located in San Ramon, California, and within the THP1 US portfolio, which went up for sale yesterday.

Those listening should be aware that our Land and Homebuilding portfolio naturally liquidates as our local development partners sell lots, homes or condos, thereby reducing our outstanding capital investment base with which to earn income. As such, unless we reinvest these distributions back into Land and Housebuilding, we would expect all other things being equal for our Land and Housebuilding income to gradually decrease over time as distribution increase.

We continue to believe that THP1 US will produce $300 million of free cash flow to Tricon over 2014 through 2016, and we do intend to reinvest much of this capital back into our Land and Housebuilding business through co-investments, as well as our other verticals. In an ideal world, we could use the $300 million as our 10% co-investment capital and raise another $2.7 billion of third-party capital getting to our $5 billion target. And this does not take into account the cash that may be generated through the securitization of our Single-Family Rental portfolio.

With the exception of Phoenix, which remained slow as the market adjust to much higher year-over-year pricing, all our Land and Homebuilding markets are performing well including energy markets, Houston, Calgary and Edmonton, and also Toronto which many have viewed as being overvalued and ripe for a correction. While we continue to closely monitor oil pricing and the broader energy market at current pricing, we do not expect there to be any major impact on underlying housing fundamentals.

In Q3, THP2 US continued its investment program with the closing of three new transactions in Corona, California; Phoenix, Arizona; and Charlotte, North Carolina, as I previously mentioned, representing $57 million in new capital commitments. While the U.S. housing market recovery has had its fits and starts, we continue to believe that we are in the early innings of what could be an extra innings game, in particular, given the recent move in interest rates. Given we target longer long-term land investments across the sunbelt, every time there is a statistical hiccup or marginal negative news, we view this as an opportunity to accumulate and increase our position in U.S. Land and Homebuilding assets.

Tricon American Homes. We are now very close to achieving our publicly stated goal of owning 5,000 homes by early 2015. We have been able to assemble this portfolio largely one home at a time in approximately two and a half years without compromising our initial underwriting parameters, namely a 12%-plus gross yield and a 7%-plus cap rate including the upfront renovation costs by being selective and nimble in our acquisition strategy.

In fact, even though we continue to acquire roughly 400 homes to 500 homes per quarter, we have been able to hold our overall portfolio occupancy relatively steady at 83% today, and keep our occupancy of homes owned for six months-plus over 90%. All the while, continue to actively renovate the bought portfolio we purchased in Charlotte, and strategically converting some Section 8 tenants in Florida and Charlotte to market-rate tenancies. In markets that are pretty stabilized, our occupancy rate has remained about 95%.

On the related note, adjusting for activities in Florida and Charlotte, our annualized turnover ratio for the quarter was 27%, slightly ahead of our long-term expectation of 30%. Our NOI margin for Q3 was a record 66.2% which is ahead of initial expectations and resulted in an CAD 8.99 million of quarterly NOI, proving that not only can we obtain scale in a fragmented business, but also operated efficiently as net margins are essentially in line with a less intensive multi-family rental business.

Our margins have benefited from 3% year-over-year rent increases for both renewals and new leases. And on the expense side, our annualized average repairs and maintenance per home remain in line with our expected range of CAD 500,000 to CAD 750,000.

Now that we feel our operations are more proven, we are turning our attention to internalizing property and asset management so that we can improve governance of our portfolio. Other benefits include standardizing systems, procedures and policies across the markets, offering better and more consistent service to our tenants, building a stronger brand for the financial markets, and over time improving our economics. In this regard, at quarter end, we had integrated operations in nine markets with our 13 markets into one property and asset management company controlled by Tricon and expect to have remaining operations integrated by early next year.

Going forward, all acquisition fees, property management fees and asset management fees will be paid to this new operating company, with Tricon retaining an approximately 51% interest in what we call OpCo, and the principals and key employees of our former operating partners owning the remaining 49%. Prior to integration, all the net income being earned was flowing to third parties.

We have been able to restructure our operating business so that the majority of economics accrues to us while still maintaining good alignment with the key people to help run the business day-to-day. Also, once integration is complete, all homes purchased will be made a new partnership. Let's call it HoldCo that will be 100% owned by Tricon. Along with providing enhanced governance returns, this structure also makes us more comparable to our peers, improving our access to the capital markets.

We also continue to work towards a securitization in early 2015 which allow us to substantially lower our cost of capital on a like-for-like basis, with respect to term and obtain a higher effective loan to cost, enabling us to repatriate the equity and then potentially reinvest it to purchase new homes.

Given that our SFR business is 50% levered today on a cost basis and that the CMBS markets allow borrowers an advance rate of 70% to 75% on value. It is possible with the embedded home price appreciation in our portfolio that we will be able to double the size of our portfolio without raising CAD 1 of equity. If this were to happen, it should have a major impact on the absolute profit of our SFR business as we will have many more homes in service, and a much higher resulting NOI. We believe, and this has been understood by the public markets, a much higher valuation would be ascribed to our Single-Family Rental business.

In terms of fair market value adjustments, as at the end of Q3 2014, we have recorded an aggregate lift of $58.2 million, which is a cumulative increase since launching our strategy in Q1 2012, and a 10% increase on Tricon's gross acquisition basis. It is worth noting that, one, the AVM, valuation methodologies is a lagging indicator. And two, we have made significant capital improvements that may not yet be reflected in the adjustment. On this call, it should also be noted that we've invested $90.3 million in CapEx to-date, including $19.5 million spent in this quarter alone.

So all-in-all, our SFR strategy remains right on track from an acquisition and operational point of view, and we remain optimistic that we will hit our longer term volume, net operating income and the total return targets.

Manufactured Housing Communities. In our new vertical, we are pleased to report that we acquired our first park, Longhaven Estates, which is located in Northwest Phoenix. We've purchased this 3.5 star, 55-plus age restricted, 314-unit park for roughly $45,000 per pad generating a going-in cap rate of 6.2% on 90% occupancy, and $390 per month pad rent. We intend to drive our unlevered yield higher by implementing rent increases in return for making some improvements to the park, and improving occupancy by purchasing homes for a number of the vacant pads. We were also able to put in place 10-year fixed rate Freddie financing at 4.15% (sic) [4.17%] (27:37), interest only for the first three years and should be able to safely generate a double-digit return on equity before factoring rent increases.

While we expect acquisition activity to be lumpy, our goal is to purchase one park to three parks per quarter over time, before factoring in the prospect for larger portfolio acquisitions and to build a substantial portfolio over five years. Once we have a larger and more seasoned portfolio, we intend to move these assets into our fund through the formation of a club deal or a separate account with institutional investors, so that we can leverage our own capital and obtain asset management fees in the process.

With that, we will now open up the lines to take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Good morning, Jonathan.

Good morning.

First on the Phoenix project you guys announced with Shea post the quarter. That's your third project with them. Do you see many more near-term opportunities with them? And then I guess just more generally on that, how big is the Active Adult new home market versus the overall market, and how do you see the relative growth prospects between the two?

Yeah. Hi, Jonathan. It's Gary. Yeah, this is our third deal with Shea, the Active Adult brand Trilogy. We can definitely see ourselves doing more projects with them over time. We've done a lot recently, so I think we want to see how those go. But over time and we definitely believe in their brand and we certainly believe in the segment.

The growth trajectory is pretty incredible for Active Adult. If you look at the total U.S. population, when we talk about Active Adult, it's typically referred to as 55-plus, in some cases targeted, in some cases age restricted. But 55-plus is 25% of the U.S. population. If you look at home ownership, more than 50% of U.S. home ownership is 55-plus. And of those people, 75% own their homes. They're much more likely to own than they are to rent. If you look at all new home purchases taking place today, roughly a third are 55-plus, and that number is increasing every day. And if you survey these people, roughly 50% of them will tell you that they want to live in age-targeted or age-restricted communities. So we think the demographics are fantastic.

Trilogy has a unique brand and that they're really targeting the boomers. They're really targeting younger buyer. In their community, the average age is typically high 50s or early 60s. This group tends to be much more active. They may work, and they're really looking for a lot of community programming. And so Trilogy really creates an environment that I would kind of – I kind of like to call it as a cross between ClubNet and the Four Seasons. Your entire day can be programmed from cooking classes to swimming to pickleball to tennis, golf. It's really terrific. And in fact Trilogy took the former team from Intrawest and they are now programming all their communities. So we really hold this sector, and certainly what Trilogy is doing in high regard and we ourselves doing a lot more.

Okay. And then secondly, just on the marketing that you've started with THP US III, you said the goal is about the same as last fund which [ph] is (31:27) around CAD 350 million I'd recall, is there any cap on that?

No. Well ultimately, in your fund documents, there would be a cap, where if we went beyond a certain amount, we would need approval from our limited partners, but there would be nothing that would stop us from raising CAD 350 million. There should be no issues around that from a cap perspective.

Okay. But say, you've got CAD 500 million or CAD 600 million, there'd be some...

Well, that's a negotiation we would need to have. I could tell you in our last fund, THP2, we ended up closing that at CAD 334 million. We ended up having quite a bit more demand. And we had some pushback from our earlier investors asking us to really stop the fundraising and invest the capital, which is what we did; we're good partners. But I don't think we'll have that resistance going forward. In fact, we've invested roughly CAD 300 million a year for the last three years. So we potentially could accommodate a significantly larger fund than CAD 334 million, CAD 350 million fund, but we don't want to set our expectations too high.

Okay. And then, sorry if I missed this, but did you mention in the prepared remarks, say, what your current investment pipeline is in the U.S.? I think last quarter was around CAD 600 million.

Yeah. We didn't mention that. It's roughly the same. At this point, we're essentially in between funds. So I would say our pipeline in some ways is less important today than it is when we're actively investing a fund, but we think the opportunities is really as good as they've ever been. And we're very opportunistic about being able to put substantial money to work once we're raising a fund.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. First question I had was just on the Single-Family Rental securitization. Is the integration of the third-party managers into kind of what's in Tricon, is that a prerequisite before being able to get that transaction to happen or are you able to do it while you're still integrating?

Absolutely not. In fact, if you look at other groups they're securitized. There's a couple which are really externally managed our progress in Silver Bay, although Silver Bay is recently internalized. So we don't think it's an impediment, but we do think that if we are internalized that we probably have a chance of getting better terms.

Okay. And then just following on, on that, I think David mentioned in his comments in terms of being able to extract some of the capital load of that investments, but with the money that's coming in from Tricon IX, I mean, is it reasonable to assume that with the money that you get back that you could – or you may likely still put more money into the strategy and try and grow beyond your current kind of 5,000-home target?

Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that's what we're implying. We're essentially saying that once we securitize in Q1, we can take that equity that's repatriated by borrowing at a higher loan to cost and then reinvesting in the business and continue to buy homes. It's an integral process. You buy homes with equity, then leverage them and you keep ongoing. We think we do that – if we do that, there's no reason why we couldn't roughly get to 10,000 homes.

To give you an example, we've got roughly CAD 300 million of equity into this sector that's Tricon and our partners. If you would assume 70% loan-to-cost or 75% loan-to-cost, I'm not even factoring any home price appreciation. So if you divide that CAD 300 million by 25% or 30%, and then divide it by our average home price of CAD 113,000, including the CapEx, you get to anywhere from roughly 8,500 homes to 10,500 homes. And that's again before factoring in any HPA. So we think our portfolio at this point is under-levered. By taking advantage of the securitization market, we can use those proceeds to substantially grow, and that should have a major impact on NAV.

Okay. Next question was just the mention that you guys had on the Faria Preserve in terms of the timing, if you're able to come to agreement and you like the price. I think you've mentioned early next year; is that under a reasonable time? And obviously, the timing may change. But would it be maybe at the earliest would be kind of Q1 or it might be more likely Q2?

This is David. Our expectation is still Q1 of next year. As I mentioned, the listing went out yesterday. We are expecting bids in by December 16 of this year and then there'll be a process backwards and forwards as we select the bidder that we want to go forward with. So I think it's very, very reasonable that it'll be Q1 of next year.

Yeah, the other thing I would add Geoff is that we've been giving guidance that we're going to generate CAD 100 million per year of free cash flow to Tricon from our investment in THP1 or Tricon IX. Well, with Faria Preserve being pushed back to Q1, we're going to come short in 2014. But if we look at the combination of 2014 and 2015, we feel very comfortable that we'll hit CAD 200 million for the two years.

Okay. And sorry, just one last question is just with the Johnson investment that you guys have done. I mean, I know it's early days. But just wanted to get a sense of, is this type of transaction something that you may look to do and maybe some of the other markets that you operate in, maybe talk to, if that is of interest, kind of the ability to kind of scale up that type of business?

Sure. I mean, we definitely wouldn't rule it out. We feel very optimistic about our partnership, strategic partnership with Johnson. I think just sticking with Johnson, we have an opportunity to expand that business regionally and potentially even nationally. I mean, at this point, Johnson is really just focused on Houston. They've got four of the top 11 master plans in Houston. They probably have upwards of 10% market share of the Houston market. And as you know, Houston is the strongest housing market in the U.S. But there's no reason, given Larry Johnson and his teams experience working nationally over decades, we couldn't expand to other Texas markets like Austin or Dallas or go to other national markets. So that is a platform that we're going look to expand.

As I've mentioned before, they also own a lot of commercial land. There's potentially something we can do with that commercial land instead of just selling it to a third-party. We might be able to joint venture or potentially build better cells and create another vertical. That's very preliminary, but it's something we're going to look into. And so, in a sense, potentially, we can even think of Johnson as a very mini Howard Hughes in terms of the model. And it's not to say that we wouldn't try to do it with somebody else. Obviously, we've got nothing in our sights today, but if we felt there was another way to create a strategic platform and then grow it, we would obviously look at it.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen MacLeod. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning.

Just wanted to just zero in on the Tricon American Homes business. You've begun to integrate the property management platform. How far are you into that process? And do you foresee any challenges or if you had any pushback from your operating partners with respect to going through that process?

Yeah. Well, as you can imagine, it's not an easy process to go through, but I'm very pleased to report that we're substantially done. At this point, where 80% done, so nine markets of the 13 markets have now been integrated. And we expect that the remaining four markets will be integrated by early next year. So we are far down the line, and it's actually gone much better than we would've thought from the outset.

Great. And then how does this impact integrating like buying homes in the future? I mean, are you going to have more operating partners as you enter new markets?

No. So going forward, once all the operators essentially internalized in what we call the OpCo, Tricon will be buying all homes on its own in a partnership let's call that partnership, HoldCo, Tricon will own 100% of HoldCo, and we'll buy all the homes. As you may recall Steve, when we started this business, we formed partnerships in each market, and our operators [ph] who (40:04) invested. So, we may have been 90% of the partnership, and they may have been 10%. But going forward, we're going to be 100%.

So we think now we've proven the business and we feel more confident about the operations, it's the right way to go. And our operating partners will obviously still be very involved in OpCo. We intent ultimately to own 51% of OpCo. OpCo, is the business for all the fees, so the property management fees, the acquisition fees, asset management fees, all of those go into OpCo. In the past, we were paying those to third parties. But going forward, all those fees get paid into OpCo and we will own roughly 51% of OpCo. So a lot of that will accrue back to us. And our local partners will own roughly the other 49%. So they'll remain aligned, and obviously very vested in the business.

Right. Okay. Okay, that's great. And then where are you seeing cap rates going in your most recently – the most recently purchased homes in the portfolio?

Cap rates are right on line. I mean, as David said when we started this business in early 2012, we were targeting 12% gross yields, 7% cap rates, and that's after factoring in the renovation cost. That's what we continue to hit. In fact, in places like Tampa where we've been actively buying in this quarter and into Q4, we're doing better than that. Houston, we're probably right there maybe a little bit better. So you have to be nimble in the acquisition strategy, if we wanted to do this in a place like Phoenix or California, we certainly would not be able to hit those cap rates, that's why we shifted the acquisition strategy. But in the Southeastern Texas, we're able to hit those cap rates all day long.

Right. Okay. And then just turning to your THP US III new fund. What's your timeline, do you expect, to get to CAD 350 million?

Well, we're anticipating a first close in the first half of 2015. I can't really give more guidance on that. It takes months, sometimes a year or longer to raise these funds. And so it's very difficult to have a lot of insight into when exactly you'll raise it and how much of the LPs will come into the first close or into a second close. So it's harder to predict that. I can't tell you that we've now had in person conversations with a vast majority of our existing LPs in the former fund and all those conversations have been positive.

The one thing there as well as – and you're probably aware that even though some of the closings might be down the road, our management – all the management fees are basically paid to us retroactively to the first close. So even though the actually closings might take place say maybe even a year after the initial close, the fees are payable from the date of initial close.

Right. Okay. And when you talk about first close and the subsequent closes, do you typically fund these with a cornerstone investment to begin with, like will the first close be a significantly larger than subsequent closes?

No. Not necessarily. I mean there's no hard-and-fast rule. I think typically, I think if you looked at industry statistics, you'd probably say that the first close should be roughly 25% to a third of the total close. That's typically what we see, but there's really no hard and fast rule around that.

In some of our earlier funds, we've had maybe close to 80% of the total fund literally closed in the last few months.

Yeah. There's definitely, I mean, with these institutions that move very slowly, this is not the public markets. There's definitely a herd mentality. So they tend to likely come in once everyone else is coming in. So you've always got that chicken-and-egg problem. So you can't have situations where the closings are back-ended or back-weighted. But as David said it, from an economic perspective, you're indifferent.

Great. Okay.

The added benefits on that of having the larger balance sheet is now we can also warehouse transactions so that we actually don't have the need to wait for the investors to fall into line. We can basically acquire assets for the fund and then transfer them once the fund grows.

Right. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jenny Ma. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. David, I'm not sure if you discussed this, I may have missed it, but in terms of getting to the CAD 5 billion of AUM in five years, what is the split you kind of imagined between principal investments and third-party assets, because right now, you're at about 50-50. Do you intend to maintain that?

Yeah. I'll let Gary on [indiscernible] (45:02).

Yeah. Well, Jenny, whatever I tell you, don't hold me to it, because we're clearly opportunistic, but I would surmise that the majority, even potentially the vast majority of that incremental AUM growth is going to be from externally managed capital. We did mention in our remarks that we could take that CAD 300 million of cash flows being generated from THP1 US or Tricon IX and use that as our 10% co-investment money to raise another CAD 2.7 billion from third parties, provided we have the opportunity. So I think we want to leverage our capital as much as we can. We're, first and foremost, an asset manager and that economically makes most sense. So that's what we're going to look to do.

Our Land and Homebuilding business at roughly CAD 1.6 billion of CAD 2.2 billion, CAD 2.3 billion of AUM is quite large. It could be larger, but we definitely want, I think, to see more growth in our Single-Family Rental business and certainly Manufactured Housing, which just started, and we may potentially have one or two other verticals as well.

So is it fair to say that your principal investment might cap out at around the 50% mark, recognizing that maybe certain quarters that number will fluctuate?

Yeah, it's – no, I don't want to pin myself on that or stick my neck out and try – I don't – like I said, I just think that if we have our druthers, we'd rather raise the money through the private markets and the public markets, because it just creates more leverage to the contractual fee income for shareholders. So that's our preference. But we have to be guided by the opportunities. Sometimes private markets are closed and public markets are open or vice versa. And so that's why, we just don't want to – I don't want to stick my neck out there and promise something I might regret.

No problem. Moving on to the Single-Family Rental portfolio, that NOI margin looks good. As far as a normalized full-year NOI margin, what do you expect from the portfolio?

That's something that's really evolving. I could tell you that 66% is definitely above our initial expectation. And part of that is because we move leasing commissions below the line. So before that, I guess, it would have been roughly closer to 63%, if you look at the way we were looking at it a couple of quarters ago. But it's evolving, and again, it's hard to see exactly, because there is lot of seasonality in the business. For example, one of your move-ins, I mean, your move-ins are going to be stronger in August, they're going to be weaker in December. You could have seasonal factors. If you have a really hot summer, you might have a lot of repairs and maintenance for air conditioners. So we're going to see as this industry evolves, where it shakes out, but we – if I were to guess, I'd probably say 65%.

Okay. Because I think seasonality definitely played into Q3.

Yeah, Jon, do you want to comment on that a little more?

Yeah. Sure, Jenny. I think, as Gary said, there's definitely seasonal elements that are going to impact every quarter. And so I think the appropriate way to look at that margin and other metrics for the business is over the full-year. So over the full-year to be around 65% is our current expectation. And we'll let you guys know if we think that changes.

Okay. Great. And my last question's probably for Margaret. In terms of the cash flow from MHC and this is just for the one property, but in the line of other expenses, there's a note saying that there is some professional fees incurred since April of 2014. So I'm wondering if there's any element of that that's non-recurring and if we should kind of take a higher run rate on a full quarter basis for this property.

There is some of it, Jenny – can I get back to you on that?

Yeah. Jenny, yeah, it is non-recurring because...

Because I know most of the non-recurring costs actually came below the line in terms of formation cost, but I was wondering...

Yeah. There's some element – there's definitely some element that's non-recurring. Obviously, there's a lot of legal fees associated with setting up our first – our partnership with Cobblestone. There were... [ph]

They were in (49:10) the corporate line.

They were in the corporate line.

Yeah.

Yeah.

I think we need to get back.

You want to get back? Okay. We'll get back. Margaret will get back to you on that.

Sure. I'd appreciate that. All right. That's it for me. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan. Your line is open.

Thanks. In terms of the internalization of the third-party operators, when do you actually own OpCo or own 50% of OpCo? And when you do that, is it as simple as just taking the asset management fee that you're currently paying, which, I think in the quarter, it was roughly [ph] CAD 100 million (49:45). Is it as simple as taking that and cutting that in half?

Yeah. You can look at it that way. I mean, we currently own OpCo today, as we speak. And OpCo will grow as we integrate all our different Single-Family Rental offers into one asset management or property management company. And basically, you can think of it this way, Jimmy. All the fees that we've been paying the third parties, asset management fees, which range from roughly 1% to 1.5%, but are now close to 1.2% and under OpCo will be 1%. So 1% asset management fees, the property management fees, which are 7% of revenues on the acquisition fees, which typically are about [ph] CAD 3,000 (50:29) a home. The leasing commissions, which are – for a new tenant or half-month rent, renewal quarter-month rent, all of that fees – that fee income goes into OpCo and then Tricon will basically take back half.

I think just to add to that, under our existing arrangements, well, the fee that we paid up to now, we've paid to our operating partners. And we've always had the right to effectively to terminate our arrangements with those partners. And so what's simply happening over here, as we enter into a new agreement, the actual management contracts essentially [ph] see this (51:14) to the new companies. So it's a very simple process. It's not as though we have to basically keep on paying to the old operators.

But you can't say – so, for example, let's just take asset management fees, which are roughly CAD 6 million for the year. You can't just say Tricon will get 51% of that CAD 6 million, because within OpCo, we also are housing all the employees. And there's roughly 130 employees in OpCo. So that – I described the revenue, you then have to deduct the expenses and the net income or the EBITDA is what we get 51% of.

Okay. So when I look at the – from an accounting perspective, when I look at the Single-Family Rental income statement, the asset management fees that's currently on there is 100% of the fee paid to OpCo. And then the offset to that is that the income – your proportionate share of that OpCo, that fee stream is at the asset management fee income line. Is that correct?

Yeah. That sounds right. Yeah. We pay 100% of the asset management fees and that's offset by our share of OpCo net income.

Okay. Which resides in the asset management segment?

Oh, no. It won't go in the asset management segment. It will be...

We'll be breaking out as a separate line item going forward.

Yeah. So, I guess, the question you're asking, Jimmy, is will we show it under Tricon American Homes as an offset against, let's call it, asset management fees or will we show it in our Private Funds and Advisory business. Is that what you're asking?

Yeah. I'm just trying to figure out like, I mean, at the end of the day, I'm just trying to figure out what is that cost savings going to be?

Yeah. So, I mean, at this point, this might evolve, but at this point in time, I think we're viewing it as an offset to Tricon American Homes. But I think that thinking needs to evolve some more. I think we have to give that a little more thought. It's a good question.

Okay. Yeah. Any color there would help a lot. And then, on the securitization process, the BPO validation, when does that start, and when do you expect that to be completed?

Jon, I'm going to throw that your way because you're handling the BPOs.

Sure. The BPO valuation process has actually already started. And we expect that we will have the majority of the BPOs completed by the end of this year. So the process is an iterative one where we order BPOs, but then we review the BPOs, we challenge them, we compare them to our cost bases, our internal valuation estimates, which we have our local team on the ground prepare. And so it's an iterative process, but the vast majority of the BPOs will be completed by the end of this year.

And on the ones that you've done so far, are you able to share on an aggregate basis how those numbers are coming up relative to what's recorded on the balance sheet? [indiscernible]

(54:18)

Yeah. Jimmy, we prefer not to tell you that. I mean, we feel good about the results so far, but we prefer not to do that. It will become obviously very clear once we print the securitization.

It's still a small sample, Jimmy.

Okay. All right. But you will disclose that only on securitization event as opposed to recording it on the balance sheet?

We'll have to report it through our corporate financial statements probably when we report 4Q in March, because we're hoping to have the securitization completed by then. If it's a meaningful material change then we would notify you, guys, ahead of time with a press release.

Okay. Great. Last question, on the G&A did move around from Q2 to Q3 by about like CAD 500,000. Wondering if you could give us some color on that and what's a good sustaining run rate and sort of what your expectations on the G&A line going forward as you continue to grow your AUM business.

Sure. So, as David mentioned, we've increased our head count significantly about 50% year-over-year. We had a couple of the new hires on the finance team start this quarter. So we had some headhunter fees there. We allow more travel because of the business growing so quickly both marketing for the funds and meeting with the pipeline developers and so on. And then beyond that, we moved our finance team into an office next door to us in Toronto, so there's slightly more overhead there. I'm guessing the run rate is probably [ph] CAD 800,000, CAD 900,000 (55:55) going forward versus [ph] CAD 700,000 (55:58) in the past.

That's great. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Wojtek Nowak. Your line is open.

Hi, Wojtek.

Hey, everyone. Thanks for taking my question. So we talked about a lot of things here. One thing I wanted to dig into further is just the securitization. Can you just go over what boxes still need to be picked to get to the finish line there?

Jon, over to you.

Sure, Wojtek. As part of the securitization, there's an extensive rating agency process where the rating agencies are evaluating really two things. One, they're evaluating the property manager, which we're in the process of doing right now. And then, two, they're also reviewing data tapes of the collateral and getting comfortable with that.

So we are in the middle of both of those processes. And then following that, we also have a legal documentation process, which, as you can imagine, is not the shortest process, but will take some time. So we are in the midst of all those things right now and expect that to – as everyone has mentioned before, that early Q1 is our – or sorry – early 2015 end of Q1 is our target.

Okay. Thanks for that color. And, I guess, further on the SFR business, when we look at the occupancy, you mentioned you're going through some transitions in Charlotte and Florida, perhaps, trying to garner higher rents there. How long do you expect that process to take? When can we expect the occupancy start to move up again and perhaps average rents move up?

In those individual – I'll let Gary take that, sorry.

Yeah. I mean, I would say, Wojtek, obviously, the answer has to be colored by what is our acquisition plans going forward. I mean, if we, for example, were to really ramp up our acquisition strategy, that could throw off our occupancy. But I think holding all things equal, we would expect – what we're going through in Charlotte and Southeast Florida, we expect everything to be stabilized, I would say, by the end of 2015.

So, for example, if you remember when we bought the 550-unit home portfolio in Charlotte, that was basically essentially – it was essentially fully stabilized, and we didn't want to go through the headline risk of evicting everybody and renovating all the homes, so we've been doing it very gradually, and it takes time. But at this point in time, 65% of the homes are renovated and 35% are still the original tenants. So we think we'll be fully through that or 90% of way through it by the end of 2015.

Okay. That's helpful. And on the Manufactured Housing side, can you give some comment as to your deal pipeline there?

Yeah. We have a pipeline that we could probably tranche off into different categories based on how advanced each park is in terms of whether they're under a contract or not. But I would say our total pipeline is roughly around CAD 200 million of gross asset value. Of that, I would say probably 30% to 40% I would describe as being more speculative. We have a couple of parks that were closed to getting under contract.

So I would say again, I think we'll probably be able to buy one to three parks per quarter. That's a [ph] 1Cs and 2Cs (59:35) approach. That's going to ebb and flow. I mean, there could be some quarters where there's no activity and there's others where there's a lot more activity. But our goal is, over time, to buy one to three communities per quarter.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And just lastly, looking at on [indiscernible] (59:55) explain the exposure there. I'm just curious given the weakness in the market, I mean, how do you [indiscernible] (59:58), how are they positioned competitively, if you will?

Yeah. Well, I mean, we don't feel as good as the Phoenix [ph] Loft (01:00:07) portfolio, which is in [ph] Tricon 9 (01:00:10) or THP1. We don't feel as good about that today as we did this time last year. Phoenix has really had a very soft year. I think looking back on it, maybe it's not that surprising. When you have sales up roughly 20% a year in 2012/2013, prices up 30% plus. Mortgage rates ramping up substantially August 2013 last year. I mean, if you look at it from a consumer's perspective, new home buyers in many cases their payments in 2014 were probably 30% or 40% higher than what they were in 2012 or 2013.

So there's been major sticker shock. And that's what's really cold water on the Phoenix housing recovery. But the market's adjusting. And I would say that now with mortgage rates lower than they've ever been through 2014, we're optimistic that things will pick back up in Phoenix next year. Certainly, if you look at job growth and population growth, they're incredibly strong in that market. The economy is certainly improving.

So we just think it's a matter of time before Phoenix continues to recover. And I would say that the recovery, not just in Phoenix, but nationally, is – it is going through its fits and starts. It's not a V-shaped recovery. You can't have a type of growth we've had in 2012 or 2013 forever. That's not sustainable. So I think this year's been really a year of pause and, hopefully, on our way up to a higher new plateau.

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much, and I'll pass along.

There are no further questions at this time. I'll turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, Keith. In concluding, I would like to thank all of you in the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in March 2015 when we discuss our results for the final quarter of 2014 and for the year as a whole.

Thank you.

Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.