Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Margaret Whelan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Co-COO & Head-Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Jenny Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jay and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Third Quarter Investor Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you very much. I would now like to introduce Mr. David Berman, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Jay. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ending 30th of September 2013, which results were set out in news release we distributed yesterday evening. Our quarterly financial statements and MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR. Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until November 20.

Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and performance of our limited partnership funds and separate accounts. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent short-form prospectus and Annual Information Form which are available on SEDAR.

Before I start, I would like to introduce Margaret Whelan, our new CFO, to those of you who have not already met her. Prior to joining us at the beginning of September, Margaret worked at JPMorgan as a Managing Director in the Homebuilding Group for six years. And before that, she was the top-rank housing analyst at UBS. I know that you will join me in welcoming Margaret to the Tricon team.

I will start the summary of this quarter's highlights. Margaret will then briefly review our key financial results, followed by Gary Berman, Tricon's President, who will provide an overview of our single-family rental and asset management business. Glenn Watchorn, Jonathan Ellenzweig, Adrian Rocca and June Alikhan, our former CFO and now our EVP of Finance and Administration, will then join us as we take your questions.

This morning, we announced another strong quarter of financial results, including adjusted EBITDA of CAD 17.2 million or approximately CAD 40.6 million year-to-date, driven largely by our single-family rental platform and the acquisition of a 68.4% interest in Tricon IX, a dedicated U.S. residential development fund with total committed capital of approximately $332 million.

Tricon IX's investment strategy, in conjunction with its local development partners, had been to fund acquisition and development of financially distressed U.S. residential real estate, primarily entitled land, finished and partially finished lots, largely through the purchase of deeply discounted bank notes, REO and bankruptcy sales at significant discounts to peak pricing. We now hold a majority interest in eight cash flowing residential development portfolios at various stages of completion located in the Greater San Francisco Bay area, Sacramento, Southern California, Phoenix, Atlanta and Miami.

Since closing the transaction in August, Tricon has received CAD 11.3 million in distributions which is well ahead of our current business plan. In addition, Tricon continues to benefit from the success of our single-family rental platform which own 2,835 homes at quarter-end and whose future growth will continue to be funded by $150 million credit facility secured from Deutsche Bank.

Tricon American Homes now owns approximately 3,000 homes, successfully hitting our 2013 acquisition target a couple of months early. We remain in the growth phase where we are paced to reach 4,000 homes by the end of next year while outperforming our peer group on key metrics such as gross yield and occupancy rate. As mentioned last quarter, we [ph] were taken (04:19) out of certain West Coast markets where distressed opportunities are harder to find and refocused our new markets such as Las Vegas and Tampa which still have significant [indiscernible] (04:29) inventory and San Antonio because of its solid long-term fundamentals. Gary will address this in greater detail later on in this call.

Furthermore, we had another significant uplift in fair market value of CAD 10.9 million, representing a 4% to 5% increase in each of our key markets for the quarter, further demonstrating the upside that is achievable through home price appreciation. This gain was offset by CAD 10.3 million of capital expenditures which should ultimately generate further increases in value as we drive rents to market levels in Charlotte and Florida.

Results for asset management business continue to be very stable. Although the U.S. fund-raising environment remains very tough, we have now reached our target capitalization of $300 million for Tricon XI. Furthermore, some large investors continue to state a preference for co-investments with separately managed accounts. And we closed on two new deals in Houston and Phoenix over the last quarter with two blue chip operating partners in markets that we know intimately.

The Houston deal is called Fulshear Farms which was closed as a new separate account with an existing investor, whereas the Phoenix transaction is an example of Tricon's ability to warehouse a transaction and position it for syndication in a separate account format. These two transactions and the third close for Tricon XI have increased our AUM to CAD 1.6 billion, the highest in the company's 25-year history.

In September 2013, the Board of Directors revised the company's compensation plan and formally adopted an annual incentive plan or AIP which will replace the former short-term inceptive plan, STIP. The intents of the AIP is to remove inconsistencies in the previous STIP, simplifying the methodology for calculating annual account compensation to provide better transparency and more flexibility as the company evolves, and to provide management compensation that is in line with the market and which promotes longer-term employee retention.

AIP will now be calculated using a simple formula of 15% to 20% of adjusted base EBITDA which does not include fair value adjustments on income-producing properties such as SFR. The actual percentage will be determined annually by the compensation committee and may vary from year to year depending on the size of the AIP pool and company performance.

No more than 60% of the AIP is committed to be paid in cash. The 15% to 20% share of income flowing from the company's 68.4% interest in Tricon IX will be paid over five years in deferred stock units and will therefore be treated as a component of the company's existing long-term incentive plan or LTIP.

I believe that this new plan is the long-term basic interest of the company as we help motivate our talented management team, increase employee ownership of the company over time and in the process improve alignment with our shareholders.

Finally, I'm also pleased to announce that August 13, our Board of Directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on December 31. This dividend will be payable on January 15, 2014.

With that, I will now turn now the presentation over to our CFO, Margaret Whelan, for a summary of how we have performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thank you, David, and good morning, everyone. Tricon's financial results released last night are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS and are presented in Canadian dollars unless otherwise noted. Management's discussion and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website, triconcapital.com and SEDAR.

In the third quarter, our adjusted base revenue rose 260% year-over-year to CAD 17.7 million. This significant increase was driven by investment income from our acquisition of 68.4% of Tricon IX, continued momentum in Tricon American Homes, our single-family rental business, along with contractual fees generated from the second close of Tricon XI and two new investments in Phoenix and Houston.

Our adjusted EBITDA rose 409% year-over-year to CAD 17.2 million, resulting in year-to-date adjusted EBITDA of CAD 40.6 million. The improvement was driven by the revenue growth and was augmented by fair value adjustments to investments in Tricon American Homes, as well as net performance fees from the Tricon IX acquisition.

Adjusted net income increased 511% year-over-year to CAD 10.1 million, while our adjusted basic EPS and adjusted diluted EPS increased to CAD 0.15 and CAD 0.12, respectively, despite a 117% increase and 176% year-over-year increase in our weighted average share count to 67.7 million and 86.1 million, respectively.

In terms of our share count, we're clearly benefiting from the increased market cap and liquidity as we were recently added to the S&P/TSX SmallCap Index. And we expect to be added to the MSCI Canada Small Cap Index later this month. On August 28, we announced a normal course issuer bid, allowing us to buy up to 5% of our fully diluted share count or 4.5 million shares. Through the end of the third quarter, we had only repurchased 10,900 shares at an average price of CAD 5.24. Given the recent share price appreciation, we have not purchased any additional shares in the fourth quarter, but we will continue to monitor our stock price and buy opportunistically in particular to offset any potential share creep from our new compensation plan.

We are actively growing our assets under management. We also continue to grow our team with a group of very experienced new hires. In total, over the course of 2013, we have hired four new accountants and two investment professionals in addition to opening new offices in San Francisco and New York.

Finally, I have enjoyed meeting with many of you over the last few months. We very much appreciate your interest in our company and I appreciate the perspective you've shared in looking for more clarity around our disclosures. As you'll see this quarter, we have provided additional tables and documentation in our quarterly financial reports. And starting this quarter, we will continue to give you more information. We appreciate your input and we will work with – together with you on this.

I will now turn the call over to Gary who will provide some additional insight on our fund management and [indiscernible] (11:02) investment businesses.

Thanks, Margaret. Since 2Q of 2013, Tricon has had one of the most productive periods in the company's 25-year history as we substantially bulked up of our balance sheet by our major co-investment in Tricon IX, raised another CAD 200 million in third-party capital and are very close to hitting our 2013 target of 3,000 single-family rental homes. The last four months have truly been a transformation period for our company.

In terms of the quarter highlights, let's start with our major co-investment in Fund IX. We completed this transaction August 13 acquiring a 68.4% interest in Tricon IX, which is a collection of essentially entitled residential assets at various stages of development that were acquired between 2008 and 2012 at significant discounts to peak pricing through distressed channels. The transaction was funded by a CAD 252 million public offering of common stock and a CAD 45 million credit facility provided by JPMorgan and RBC.

The returns to Tricon will consist of investment income as assets are developed and sold, upside potential from capital appreciation of longer-term projects, and incremental returns from the build-out of San Francisco area assets, namely, Pine & Franklin and Faria Preserve, which could not be achieved within the confines of our existing limited partnership structure.

Management considers the co-investment in Tricon IX to be a transformative transaction as it nearly doubles the size of the company and provides shareholders with meaningful exposure to U.S. land and homebuilding projects at the beginning of what could be a long-term up cycle in U.S. housing.

We believe the co-investment in Tricon IX is compelling for a number of strategic and economic reasons. First, Tricon's pure-play investment strategy capitalized on the U.S. housing recovery is materially enhanced by adding land and homebuilding-related assets to our existing single-family rental platform. As far as we are aware, Tricon is the only publicly traded company in Canada to provide shareholders with meaningful exposure to both U.S. land and homebuilding operations and single-family rentals.

Second, the transaction is expected to be accretive on an earnings per share basis and generate approximately 15% to 20% annual compounded returns through the use of modest leverage and the building out of the two key assets in San Francisco and surrounding area. The transaction is essentially double the size of the company's principal investment strategy without incurring any operational changes by purchasing assets we are intimately familiar with.

Over time, it's our expectation that the company's larger market capitalization will result in a lower cost of capital and provide shareholders with improved liquidity, which is becoming increasingly evident through higher daily trading volume.

Finally, Tricon's enhanced balance sheet should provide our company with the competitive advantage in attracting third-party capital where material co-investments are now becoming mandatory for major blue chip investors.

On to the private funds side, not only does our asset management business continue to perform positively in a very difficult fund-raising market, we believe it will be a meaningful driver of our growth going forward. We've now reached our target capitalization of $300 million for Tricon XI with a potential final close in early December. Further, some large investors who continue to state a preference for co-investments are separately managed account. And in this regard, we've closed on two new investments in Houston and Phoenix with two blue chip operating partners in markets we know intimately.

As a result of these two transactions and a third close to Tricon XI, our assets under management has grown to CAD 1.6 billion, CAD 510 million higher than December 2012 and now the highest in the company's 25-year history.

In terms of the quarter's highlights for Tricon American Homes, our single-family rental platform, Tricon continues to benefit from the success of our single-family platform which owned 2,835 homes at quarter-end and whose future growth will continue to be funded by CAD 150 million credit facility secured from Deutsche Bank.

In terms of our acquisition activity, we purchased 358 homes in the quarter. Our acquisition activity slowed compared to Q2 as a result of substantially reduced distressed buying opportunities in California and Phoenix where home prices have increased materially year-over-year. To maintain our acquisition program while still achieving similar yields in new purchases, we've begun to rotate out of certain West Coast markets where distressed opportunities are hard to find and refocused on new markets such as Las Vegas, Tampa and San Antonio, which all possessed strong long-term housing fundamentals and will be accretive to our existing portfolio of homes. We have already purchased over 100 homes in Las Vegas and expect to be fully operational in San Antonio and Tampa by year-end.

In addition, we are very focused on the total return potential for each market which is based on the combination of current yield, which is generally more stable and will underpin our financial performance, and long-term home price appreciation or HPA, which should provide us with meaningful upside.

With regards to our ongoing operations, we continue to see very consistent demand on the leasing side. During the quarter, we leased up 457 homes which increased our portfolio-wide occupancy rate to 80%. And anecdotally, we are seeing roughly 2% to 3% annual rent increases in most of our markets. Our occupancy rate for homes owned six months or more has remained stable during the quarter [ph] and recorded (16:21) an industry-leading level of 92%. If we excluded the Charlotte portfolio, we're currently renovating approximately 50 homes. This occupancy rate would increase to approximately 95%.

Similarly, our net operating income margins have also improved slightly to 62%, enabling us to continue to obtain property-level cap rates of 7% to 8%. It is our intent to ramp up acquisition volume in the next few quarters in our expansion markets and so we would not be surprised to see the overall portfolio occupancy rate come under pressure temporarily as new acquisitions could exceed new leases.

Lastly, we should mention that Blackstone recently achieved a major milestone in the industry as they successfully securitized approximately 3,200 homes on very favorable terms with almost 50% of the paper rated AAA and advance ratio or loan-to-value of 75% and an effective borrowing rate of LIBOR plus [ph] 166 (17:18). It is our understanding that the securitization will enable Blackstone to pull out approximately 90% of their bases in the homes including CapEx.

This obviously bodes very well for Tricon and we will be working with Deutsche Bank in the coming weeks to further explore securitization. Overall, we remain extremely satisfied with the performance of our single-family rental strategy and believe that Tricon is well positioned to capitalize in the buying window which should extend into 2014.

Moving on to the land and homebuilding investment environment, we continue to see extremely attractive investment opportunities in the United States, particularly related to urban in-fill and well-located suburban land development projects.

Our strategy for Tricon XI is to invest in well-located residential development projects which are purchased from motivated sellers where the business plan would be to either build out homes or units with our local development partner or service the land and sell to public and major private homebuilders.

In Tricon XI, we've already committed to seven quality investments representing approximately CAD 150 million or roughly 50% of the fund that together expected to generate a gross IRR of 25%. We believe there's potentially upside to these returns as the U.S. housing market is in the early stages of a full recovery that could last multiple years given the magnitude of the downturn.

In Q3, our new U.S. investments included a 1,250 acre land development in Houston known as Fulshear Farms, which may ultimately become an expansion of Cross Creek Ranch, a 350-acre, 965-unit active adult development that will extend a very successful Trilogy community in the renowned Vistancia master plan in Phoenix and a 72-unit condo project in a centralized location in Calabasas, which is an affluent suburb of LA County.

In Canada, we are focusing our attention on Alberta which went through a particularly difficult housing downturn in 2007 through 2009 and is now starting to recover. We're exploring the investment in the established master-planned community and we'll communicate more next quarter if this project gets to the next stage.

I will now hand it back over to David for closing remarks.

Thank you, Gary. In conclusion, as I discussed last quarter, Tricon continues to pursue opportunistic residential real estate investments across the United States and Canada. I believe that our current platforms of financing residential developments and single-family homes are just the start. And over the years, we will, at the appropriate times, enter into related and complementary business lines without foregoing our underlying operating strategy, that of being an asset manager for our investors and for ourselves.

We look forward to adding value for our shareholders in the quarters and years to come, and appreciate your faith in the company and our management team. We now welcome questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. First question...

Good morning, Geoff.

Yeah. First question I had was just we've started to see now with the Tricon IX transaction some of the free cash flow generation which should pick up next year and wanted to get, [ph] through you guys (20:45), a sense about what the cash flow coming in, how you're thinking about how you're going to be able to redeploy it, whether or not it's into new opportunities or buybacks or that sort of thing?

Hi, Geoff. It's Gary. We're going to redeploy the capital into new opportunities. At this stage, we have an incredibly robust pipeline from land and homebuilding development opportunities in the U.S., and we'll continue to try to take advantage of those. Again, we can use the capital that's redeployed to really – for co-investment capital and then leverage our own internal capital by raising third-party money. So, that is probably something we'll continue to do. You saw in the last quarter that we announced one separate account transaction and have another pending as a great use of our capital and we're going to continue to look for those type of opportunities.

We also probably have an opportunity to put a little bit more equity in the single-family rental. We're seeing a window right now where a lot of our public competitors, because the equity capital markets in the U.S. are a little in disarray for single-family rental, there's actually less competition. And so we think there's a window over the next couple of quarters to ramp up our acquisition activity. So, that's another possible use of capital in the coming months.

And maybe similar to that [ph] which are (22:05) on the single-family rental side of the business, you guys have talked about that CAD 4,000 – sorry, not CAD 4,000 – 4,000 home target with the – if the market remains favorable for you guys, it sounds like it's not as much 4,000. But if there's opportunities to buy more, you guys would do it because you guys probably would have the capital and availability to do it. Is that a fair way to look at it?

Yes, it's fair. I mean, our guidance continues to be 4,000 homes. But if you actually look at the amount of capital, we ultimately can have through our credit facilities, if you use 60% loaning cost at the base, we could probably get beyond 4,000 homes. Really, what's driving us is not really the volume, it's where we see the yield opportunities. And we continue to see those yield opportunities and the capitals available that there's no reason why we wouldn't go beyond 4,000 homes. But our guidance remains 4,000.

Okay. I'm sorry. If I can just ask one last question. I think you guys have talked about maybe looking at offering different types of products to your third-party investors. With some of those things that you're exploring, would they be things where you have the skill set internally to be able to manage better or would you potentially need to bring on some people to help grow those initiatives?

Generally, what we're looking at, Geoff, are business lines which are very complementary to what we do. In other words, they're in the residential development business. And so, if we do bring on new verticals that we're looking at in those areas, there might be the need to bring on some people, but not significant numbers of people, that would surely be to complement what we already have. Because as I mentioned, the expertise is definitely there.

Okay. Perfect. Great. Thank you.

The next question comes from Jimmy Shan with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jimmy.

So just on the single-family rental, in the MD&A, you guys talked about currently assessing the various strategic alternatives with respect to that portfolio. I wondered if you could sort of update us as to maybe timing of, I guess, first, what are those strategic alternatives that you're considering and then what would be the timing of that? And then maybe looking a little further down the road to the extent you're getting capital back, what do you think the use of proceeds will be?

Okay. Well, we answered your second part of the question in the last question, but I could probably expand on that further. But the main strategic thing that we're going to be looking at in the coming quarters is certainly securitization. I can't give you any guidance on timing or whether that will actually happen, but it's no accident that we have the same lenders [ph] watching (24:53) on that, being Deutsche Bank. So, that is something that we're going to look into and potentially [ph] to present or get (24:59) opportunity for us.

Once that gets further evolved, we probably will ultimately look at other potential exit opportunities for our single-family rental business, but by no means does that mean that we will exit. We will explore, for example, if it makes sense, to spend the portfolio off either in the U.S. or Canada but that's something that we're continuing to evaluate and by no means should you take it that we will do that. That is certainly on the strategic side.

We're really focused right now, Jimmy, more on the acquisition side because we're going into new markets, San Antonio, Tampa, Las Vegas, potentially going into Atlanta, potentially going into other parts of the Carolinas.

So, we continue to see really strong acquisition opportunities and our focus right now is to ramp up the portfolio and at the same time maintain our operational performance. In terms of the second part of your question, in terms of cash coming back, some of that cash might be used to reinvest into single-family rental, again, because of the opportunities we're seeing and the window we're seeing to continue to acquire homes at existing yields.

And we also could potentially use that cash to continue to grow our investments in land and homebuilding and also the other verticals that David mentioned. Those are all potential opportunities. At this point in time, I would say there's no shortage of opportunity related to the kind of key competencies that we have and so we don't anticipate any issues redeploying the capital.

And as part of that equation, would a share buyback or a special dividend be part of the consideration as well or...

Yeah. They would be part of the consideration or that would go into the mix at the appropriate time. And we will make a decision at that stage [indiscernible] (26:51) the best interest of the shareholders.

Okay. And then my second question relates to Fund IX and I think also in the MD&A, you talked about potentially, if I've read it right, pursuing swaps and profit sharing build-outs. I wondered if you could just elaborate on that. And also given how active the market has been especially in California, I wondered if you could sort of give us some color on what you think ultimately will happen with Faria Preserve and some of those type of investments?

Yes. So I'm not sure I understand the question related to swaps, but I can elaborate more on Tricon IX. As we mentioned, we now have closed commitments of just over $300 million. The fund is roughly 50% committed to seven different investments, too, that were done this quarter. We continue to see a huge amount of opportunity. In fact, our pipeline today is about CAD 800 million of investments that are in various stages.

So we – sorry, I was talking about Tricon. The question was Tricon, Tricon. Yeah. Sorry, Jim. I was talking about Tricon XI.

Yeah.

On Tricon IX, Tricon IX is really essentially in rundown mode, and our plan is really to continue to harvest those different investments, and all the business plans are according – are performing in accordance with our expectations. In some cases, the distributions or cash returns are a little higher than what we thought, but it's really just we're in harvest mode as we continue to liquidate lots and sell homes to consumers.

Pine & Franklin, we've now incorporated a build-out into our pro forma, and that was reflected in Q3. And on Faria Preserve, we continue to evaluate a build-out, and we'll probably have more on that in the next quarter or two, but the markets continue to be very, very strong. And so we would not be surprised to see that the returns on Faria Preserve would be higher than what we modeled.

I think, Jimmy, your question when you asked about the swap, what we've talked about in the past is that Faria Preserve is a currency for us because it's a terrific strategic asset. A lot of the public builders and the big privates have asked us about it and potentially looking at it as a swap for [indiscernible] (29:16) entitled, but not yet developed on their balance sheet and might be hurting their returns.

So, as you know, the Shapell transaction was announced last week. Toll Brothers is buying Shapell. And Weyerhaeuser [indiscernible] (29:30) the homebuilding business of Weyerhaeuser has been sold to Tri-Pointe. Both of those were very, very competitive processes and what we're hearing in the market is that the folks who were announced – who – was publicly disclosed were bidding or in the final round of bidding obviously are disappointed now that they didn't get assets they wanted and therefore, it makes Fria Preserve even more valuable to them. So we are always having conversations. As Gary said, we don't have Fria built out in our cash flows as of yet. But we look always at the best return that we can get and we'll continue to do that.

Okay. So I guess in the context of that, at this stage, it's more likely that you guys would further build it out as opposed to either entering into a swap transaction on that property or even monetizing it at this stage?

I don't think you could infer anything from that. We're looking at all the opportunities as we go forward, so we would look at all of them. Monetizing at this point in time, possibly not because we think there's tremendous opportunities still down the road. But at the appropriate time, that might be an opportunity.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from Jenny Ma with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone. So, Gary, going back to your comment about the pipeline for Tricon XI being about CAD 800 million, now, clearly that exceeds the capital you have to invest. Can you talk about what you might do with some of the opportunities beyond what you can invest in with Tricon XI?

Yeah. It's a good question and that's where we have an opportunity to really grow our AUM business because if we have – now, obviously, we need to show opportunities that fit the criteria of XI to XI first. But to the extent that those opportunities exceed the funds available capital or just in terms of investment limit that are too high for the fund, that's where we have opportunities to enter in sidecars or co-investments with other investors.

So is the CAD 800 million just the pipeline or is it CAD 800 million that would qualify as investments for Tricon XI or have you not gotten to that point yet?

It's both. It's both. It is a pipeline. And again, those investments are in various stages. Some of them are more advanced. Some are more – I would describe as being somewhat preliminary. And that pipeline fluctuates or changes from week to week. But those are all potential opportunities that would be shown to Fund XI. And to the extent that we can't fit them in XI or – either because XI is full or because the actual investment size exceeds the deal limit for the fund, that's an opportunity where we can offer co-investment to either existing investors in Tricon XI or to third-party investors. And so, we see this as potentially a great opportunity to continue to grow our AUM business.

Okay. Now, on a similar line, what are you seeing in terms of appetite for new funds? I know in your MD&A and just in your commentary, you talked about there's more opportunities for sidecar investments and separate accounts, but what are you seeing in terms of the timeline for potential new Tricon fund?

Well, in the case of Tricon XI, we are looking to have a final close on December 3 and that will partly depend – that will partly determine what our plans are for our future fund or successor fund to Tricon XI, obviously, depending on the size of the final fund and also what investment opportunities are. But I think given that we've just finished or we will just finish raising the fund, we're not going to come out with a new fund or successor fund to Tricon XI for some time.

In the case of Tricon XII, as we mentioned, we're actively looking at a very exciting master-planned community in Alberta. If that project were to be completed, it would likely finish off Tricon XII. And therefore, we would be in a position where we can go and raise a new fund. I would say, I think given the state of the Canadian housing market today, we're unlikely to come back to the market with a new for-sale fund and we're probably instead concentrated under investment types or opportunities related to what we do.

And so I think the driver of our AUM going forward particularly over 2014 is either going to be separate accounts to do these larger transactions which don't fit into the Tricon XI bucket for whatever reason or creating new verticals where we raise third-party capital. It's going to be one or the other. But raising successor funds to XI and XII will take a little bit of time to do.

Okay.

Just to clarify a little bit further on that, it's probably unlikely to come back for 2013 and 2014, in 2014, but 2015 is a different story.

Okay. Is it just because it's too far out or do you [ph] seasonally define the horizon (34:39) in 2015 versus 2014?

We just need time. We just need – we just finished – we would just finish investing – we will have just finished investing XII, Tricon XII. And as I said, the opportunities for for-sale housing in Canada right now are a little bit stretched. So we don't think it would be prudent to come back in the market right away. Instead, we'll probably look for other opportunities in Canada and will either do that through funds, co-mingled funds or separate accounts.

Okay.

And we are also looking at new verticals and those verticals, some of them will be done on the balance sheet but in a lot of cases we'll try to leverage third-party capital and do it off balance sheet. So let's just say that we are very focused right now in growing our AUM. And over the last year, the focus has been on really bulking up our balance sheet and our principal investing area. But I think, as you look forward in this quarter, next quarter and through to 2014, you're going to see the focus return to our AUM business. The growth of that AUM may not continue in a historical pattern. It might be different, again, because of new verticals which, at this point, we really can't expand on further or through separate accounts which are harder to predict.

Okay, great. I'll turn the call back. Thanks.

Thank you.

The next question comes from Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Yeah. I just had a follow-up question on the pipeline you're talking about for Tricon XI, like, how would that have compared to six months ago or a year ago? And then also, I'm assuming the opportunities you're looking at may not necessarily be exclusive. So how should we think about if there's a way to kind of generalize your ability to close on the pipeline?

Those opportunities are largely exclusive with operating partners that we back. They have brought those deals to us. It doesn't mean we'll do the deals because they might not check out in diligence, for example, but the pipeline is largely exclusive. It's not a pipeline that consists of us bidding on different opportunities and hoping that we get it. In many cases, I would describe that more as proprietary pipeline.

And in terms of the size of the pipeline, I think it's been – it's as robust, if not more robust, than what we've seen over the last 6 to 12 months. We are seeing tremendous opportunity right now. There's just not that much institutional capital focused on the for-sale housing space in the U.S., land and homebuilding. There's probably only a couple of other funds, institutional funds, that compete against us. And given how large the overall market is, there's really just – there's just lots and lots to do, lots of great opportunities.

Again, we're not competing as public homebuilders. The public homebuilders tend to be our clients. So we're looking for larger tracts of land where we can add value with our local operating partners in the planning process, put in some infrastructure and then sell either finished lots or super pads to public. So it's a market that is growing largely because the top line is growing.

I mean, where else do you see an industry where the expectations or the top line is going to grow revenue starts, are going to grow 15% or 20% a year? That's why we're seeing such robust opportunities today.

Okay. And the last question I had is more so I guess geared towards Tricon XII because you guys have talked about the limited real estate opportunities in Ontario and BC. I'm not saying it's necessarily going to happen, but how do you think about it with – if you get to the point near the end of the investment period that you still have a meaningful amount of capital that has been uninvested, given you've got investors, third-party investors that have allocated capital to you and are presumably expecting that you'll invest it for it, how you balance that as to, okay, do you maybe look at doing some investments that you might have necessarily not done otherwise or do you look at...

Yes. I mean, that's fine. I mean I can answer that question generally. But I think in the case of Tricon XII it's really a non-issue because the investment we're looking at right now in Alberta would complete the fund. There would be no remaining capital left. In fact, this investment would exceed the amount of capital available in the fund that we might need to offer co-investment to some of our existing limited partners.

So we don't see that as an issue to all in Tricon XII. I can tell you that we did approach some our limited partners about a year ago, in 2012, and said, look, the environment here in Canada is much more challenging. We're not in a rush to put out the capital. We may not put out the capital in time. And the response we got from them was, thank you for telling us. It's the best news you could give us. Please take your time. There's no rush. You can always come back to us if you need and ask for an extension in the investment period. So, that's been the response from the limited partners. They don't want us to do bad deals. But I just don't think that's an issue right now in Tricon XII.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Jenny Ma with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Hi. I'm just catching on the comment Gary just made about Tricon XII. You mentioned that if you do the Alberta deal and you end up being a bit over your offer as a co-investment to your investors, any reason why you guys wouldn't just invest in it yourself?

That's a possibility. It's a possibility. But remember, there is always a sequence in managing these issues and we take conflicts very, very seriously. So within the limited partnership agreement, our limited partners, major limited partners always have a priority on co-investment.

So, we would need to offer to them first. Now, that doesn't mean we wouldn't be able to take our pro rata share. We would be able to, but we wouldn't be able to take it on our own without first offering it to our limited partners.

Okay. Got you. And then I have another question with regards to the advisory fee of CAD 4 million that was paid in connection with the Tricon IX deal. Can you expand a little bit more on that fee?

Yeah. Those fees were related to consummating the transaction that were – we don't consider that to be recurring or ongoing expense. They were simply related to buying our 68% interest in the fund. And therefore, those are fees that are payable to our different advisors or bankers, the accounting firms and lawyers for doing their work.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to our presenters.

Thank you, Jay. And in concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in February next year when we discuss our results for the fourth quarter of 2013. Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.