Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director, Corporate Finance, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Stephen D. MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Brent, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Q2 Analyst Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Wojtek Nowak. Please begin, sir.

Thank you, Brent, and good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter-ended June 30, 2015, which were shared in the new release we distributed yesterday.

Before I turn the call over to Gary Berman, Tricon's President and CEO, I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information about future events and the performance of our business. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our most recent Management Discussion and Analysis, Annual Information Form, as well as our Short Form Prospectus filed this week. All of which are available on SEDAR. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible until August 21.

With that, I will turn the call over to Gary Berman.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. Our prepared remarks this morning will include highlights of our Q2 2015 accomplishments and discussion of our various business verticals. Tricon continued to deliver strong year-over-year earnings growth in the second quarter with adjusted EBITDA increasing by 70% compared to Q2 2014 and adjusted basic EPS increasing by 89% over the same timeframe.

While the company as a whole performed well in Q2, our Tricon Housing Partners vertical underperformed expectations in the quarter as a result of a negative fair value adjustment related to Faria Preserve, a THP1 US asset. Faria Preserve is under contract at a price in line with management's expectations, but with a projected closing later than anticipated. We will discuss this asset in a greater detail later in the call.

A major contributor to our quarter's success was our single-family rental vertical, Tricon American Homes, which hit a new occupancy record of 94%, and also recognized $14.9 million fair value gains before adjustments. In our Private Funds and Advisory business, contractual fees increased by 10% year-over-year to$5.2 million in Q2 as a result of closing new investments and additional fee income from our investment in Johnson.

In addition, subsequent to quarter-end, we announced a new and exciting business line, Tricon Luxury Residences or TLR. As we stated in the past, our goal is to establish Tricon as a diversified residential investment company, where we invest our own capital into related and complementary housing verticals and when appropriate, raise additional funds from private investors to leverage our own capital and augment our returns. TLR fits this strategy by building on our expertise in multi-family development and single-family rental operations, and by involving third-party investors in the projects.

Tricon is a growth company, addressing a vast market opportunity within the North American housing sector. With the U.S. housing recovery firmly entrenched, we are seeing attractive risk adjusted opportunities and improving industry fundamentals in all our key business lines. The investments we come across can require large cash outlays, and if attractive opportunities arise in several verticals at the same time, it's important that we are well positioned to act upon them. With our upsized corporate credit facility and recently announced equity bought deal, we have liquidity of approximately$300 million before taking into account the TAH warehouse facility and projected distributions from THP. With a meaningful pipeline in all our verticals, we are confident that we can deploy the capital that we've raised into attractive accretive investment opportunities for our shareholders within a reasonable timeframe.

I would also like to highlight a few management changes announced in our press release. I am thrilled to announce that Wissam Francis has been appointed Chief Financial Officer of the company. Prior to joining Tricon, he was a senior member of Ernst & Young's Transaction Real Estate practice. And prior to E&Y, Wissam was the Director of Finance and Acquisitions at First Capital Realty. He has over 15 years of experience in related fields and has been actively involved in various projects and sectors, including retail, commercial, industrial, office, residential, mixed-use and development projects.

June Alikhan has stepped down as Chief Financial Officer, but will stay with the company through the end of the year to help ensure an orderly transition before officially retiring. June has been a committed member of Tricon's core team for roughly 15 years and has been a steadying force through our Tricon's transitions, first from a manager of high net worth capital to an institutional asset manager and then from a private to a public company. We will miss June and are deeply appreciative for her meaningful contribution to Tricon's long-term success.

I am also happy to announce that Doug Quesnel has been appointed Chief Accounting Officer of the company. Prior to joining Tricon in 2014, Doug was with Dream Unlimited Corp., where he served in senior financial executive roles including Chief Accounting Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Dream Global REIT and Chief Financial Officer of Dream Unlimited Corp. In these roles, Doug was responsible for business planning and analysis, investor relations, financial reporting and tax planning.

Finally, I am excited to announce that Kevin Baldridge joined Tricon as President of Tricon American Homes, with responsibility for day-to-day management of all aspects of Tricon's single-family rental home business. Kevin has a demonstrated track record of success in property management and operations, acquisitions, strategic planning and marketing. Prior to joining TAH, Kevin served as President of Irvine Company Apartment Communities, where his responsibilities include overseeing an apartment portfolio of more than 44,000 Class-A rental units and close to 125 communities in California. We believe Kevin's industry experience will prove invaluable to us as we continue to grow and professionalize our single-family rental business.

With Kevin focusing on the day-to-day management of TAH, Jon Ellenzweig, who has done a terrific job helping to establish our single-family rental business will revert back to our land and homebuilding business where he will be responsible for co-leading our THP vertical with Craig Mode. Jon will continue to provide strategic oversight to TAH and will assist Kevin with financing acquisitions and business plan implementation. As we continue to establish Tricon as a diversified housing brand, you can see we're making some important investments in our senior management team to prepare for the next wave of growth. I would like to congratulate Wissam, Doug, and Kevin on their appointments. I look forward to working with them as we take Tricon to the next level.

With that, I will now turn the presentation over to Wissam Francis, our new CFO, for a summary of our financial and operational performance for the quarter and then I will return to provide more detailed commentary on our various business lines. We will then open up the call for questions at which time I will be joined by David Berman, June Alikhan, Jon Ellenzweig, Craig Mode, Adrian Rocca, Doug Quesnel, and David Veneziano.

Thank you, Gary, and good morning, everyone. I'm very excited and honored to be taking on the role of Chief Financial Officer, and I look forward to serving our investors, our employees, and other stakeholders during this period of growth for Tricon. Following a strong first quarter, we continued to deliver meaningful growth in Q2. Our assets under management increased by$467 million or 25% to$2.3 billion as of June 30, 2015, compared to$1.9 billion as of June 30, 2014. Since Q1 2015, assets under management increased by 6% as a result of the$150 million acquisition of the 1,400 unit single-family rental home portfolio and the capital advance to The Selby, our first Canadian development project under the TLR banner. Subsequent to quarter end with the closing of Viridian, our assets under management increased to $2.5 billion or C$3.2 billion.

The increase in AUM provides a strong base for revenue growth of contractual fees and investment income. Contractual fees increased by 10% to $5.2 million, which was the result of the additional fee income received from the new separate account and side-car investments formed in 2014 and 2015 as well as increase in contribution from Johnson.

At Tricon Housing Partners, investment income was $0.6 million in Q2, down 90% year-over-year. As Gary mentioned upfront, the decrease was largely driven by the delay of projected cash flows to be received from Faria Preserve, which are now expected in the first half of 2016 with some additional payments thereafter as per an executed agreement of purchase and sale with a large public homebuilder. This change reduced the present value of expected cash flows and resulted in a decrease in fair value of $6.6 million. Keep in mind as we get closer to the expected closing in 2016, the decrease in fair value should be recaptured. Therefore, this is just a timing difference falling out of the discounted cash flow valuation methodology and we expect to recover full amount over time.

In the second quarter, Tricon received $29.5 million of cash from our co-investment in THP1 US, largely attributed to closing at our Vida project in San Francisco. Since acquiring the 68.4% interest in THP1 US for $261 million in August 2013, Tricon has received approximately $114 million of free cash flow from the fund and we still expect that 68.4% interest to generate approximately $280 million in distribution from Q3 2015 through to the end of 2018.

Investment income from Tricon American Homes increased by 108% to $8.9 million for Q2 2015 from $4.3 million for the same period in 2014. Growth in the number of homes and improved operational performance were the primary drivers of the increase. The total portfolio at the end of Q2 2015 has grown by 52% to 6,513 homes from 4,274 homes a year ago and in-place occupancy increased by 9% to 94%. In Q2, Tricon American Homes reported a $14.9 million fair value gain before adjustments. The vast majority of the homes were valued using the Home Price Index methodology, with an increase in fair value of 4.2% for those homes during the quarter.

Overall, our adjusted EBITDA increased by $9.6 million or 70% to $23.4 million in Q2 2015 compared to $13.7 million in Q2 2014. This was primarily driven by growing TAH investment income, both realized and unrealized and higher contractual fees, offset by lower investment income from THP and higher adjusted operating expenses. In terms of the operating expenses, our salaries and benefits increased by 27% to $2.7 million for Q2 2015, primarily as a result of the Johnson acquisition, which is consolidated into our financials. This is in line with what we projected last quarter, and for the full year of 2015, we expect the salaries and benefits including Johnson to be close to $12 million.

Finally, from a liquidity perspective, Tricon is well capitalized to execute on its growth plans. Let me expand on what Gary mentioned earlier. In June, we increased our corporate revolving credit facility from $175 million to $235 million. The total amount outstanding on the facility at the end of the quarter was just $44.5 million. We also announced C$115 million equity offering, which is expected to close on or about August 18, 2015. In our TAH business, subsequent to the completion of securitization transaction, we amended the terms of our dedicated warehouse credit facility, including an increase in permitted leverage to 70% loan-to-cost, a reduction in the interest rate to LIBOR plus 300 basis points, and a decrease in the total availability from $450 million to $300 million.

Before I turn the call back to Gary, I would also like to thank June for her contribution to Tricon for the past 15 years. It's been truly a pleasure and a privilege to work with her for the past nine months. I'm also looking forward to the opportunities ahead as Tricon continues to evolve.

I will now turn the call back to Gary, who will provide additional insights into our Principal Investment and Private Funds and Advisory businesses.

Thank you, Wissam. I'm excited to update everyone on the progress we're making across our business lines. On the whole, our business verticals continue to perform in line or ahead of management's expectations and reflect the ongoing recovery of the U.S. housing market.

Let me recap some key highlights of the quarter beginning with Tricon Housing Partners. U.S. housing market continues to show a healthy pace of expansion. Sales in new single-family homes reached 482,000 in June, up 18% over last year. Year-to-date housing starts were up 11% to 533,000, although on an annualized basis were still 50% below the 50-year long-term average before taking into account population growth. These data points continue to reinforce our conviction that we're in the early innings of a housing recovery in the U.S., and that Tricon's land and homebuilding business has strong tailwind supporting its growth.

While THP investment income was muted largely because of a negative fair market value adjustment related to Faria Preserve, our sales activity in the first half of 2015 has been robust and should set us up for gains in future quarters. For instance, in our various U.S. private investment vehicles, we sold 77 acres of land, 930 single-family lots and 425 homes in the first six months of 2015.

Let me recap some highlights from the quarter. Vida, the second condominium development in the THP1 US, San Francisco portfolio, is now essentially sold out. Rockwell, the third condominium in the San Francisco portfolio, launched sales in April 2015 and recorded 116 sales during the quarter at an average price of approximately $1,200 per square foot. Trilogy at Vistancia West, the THP2 US [ph] and Tricon (14:15) investment has now sold 112 homes since opening release and it's the best selling active adult community in the Phoenix MSA through Q2 2015 according to RCLCO.

In Canada, Metrotown's Silver Tower, a THP3 Canada project in Burnaby, British Columbia is now complete and almost all units have been closed, with final sales and closing scheduled for Q3. The planning work for the second phase of the project, Maywood, is on schedule for a Q3 2016 launch.

At Tricon American Homes, we focus on absorbing the 1,385-unit portfolio we acquired in April and put our regular acquisition program on hold. By the end of Q2 2015, our in-place occupancy reached a record high of 94%and if we exclude homes that are out of service for rehab, our portfolio occupancy is at a target stabilized rate of 95%. With our initial occupancy projections confirmed and the recent portfolio acquisitions fully integrated, we tend to resume our regular acquisition program of 400 homes to 500 homes per quarter, although we will likely be short in Q3 given that it takes time to ramp up.

As we look forward, we expect the overall occupancy decline in upcoming quarters depending on how many new vacant homes we acquire on each period. As a reminder, it typically takes us 90 days to stabilize or cash flow a newly purchased vacant home. We continue to see very healthy demand for our properties and have been able to increase rents on new move-ins by 5% and renewals by just under 2% for a blended average of 3.3%.

Average turnover was 28% for Q2 2015, which is in line with Q1. Our year-to-date NOI margin of 62% was 1% lower to the NOI margin for the full year of 2014, but in line with management's expectations. The decrease is attributable to a change in geographic mix as a recent portfolio acquisition included homes in Texas that have [ph] meaningly (16:04) higher state property tax rates. Higher property tax has a negative impact on margin, but it has nothing to do with the quality or efficiency of our operations and is factored into our underwriting criteria to achieve our target cap rates. We expect our margin for the year to be in the low 60%s given the change in geographic mix for the overall portfolio.

Lastly, as we move closer towards our target 10,000 homes, we continue to value opportunities in our existing markets as well as potential new markets for expansion. Including the recent portfolio acquisition, we're now in 13 markets and see a strong buying opportunity in many of them, which will also help us gain operational efficiency through scale. So, all in all Tricon American Homes remains on track from a financial and operational point of view, and we remain optimistic that we will hit our longer-term volume NOI and total return targets.

Moving along to Tricon Lifestyle Communities, we acquired our second property in Q2 2015 Apache MHP located near Phoenix, Arizona. The property comprises 17.5 acres of land and 192 residential pads of which 86% were occupied as of June 30. Similar to Longhaven, Apache is classified as a 55-plus age-restricted community that has the potential to be improved over time through a capital expenditure program. Tricon and our partner, Cobblestone, assumed the existing mortgage debt provided by Fannie Mae at 57% loan-to-value with a remaining term of 7.5 years and a fixed rate of 4.36% and are looking to add a supplemental loan to increase the LTV to approximately 65%. Thus far the operating performance of Longhaven and Apache has been in line with our business plan.

Subsequent to quarter-end, we contracted to purchase another five age-restricted communities in Phoenix with approximately 1,360 residential spaces and expect closing to occur in Q4, provided our due diligence is satisfied. The acquisition totals $34.25 million, of which $14 million is being contributed by Tricon. Our pipeline for the next 12 months remains at approximately $100 million including the parts under contract and we remain focused on acquiring one to two parts per quarter before considering portfolio opportunities that will come up from time to time.

For Tricon Luxury Residences, we have been exploring a built-to-core multi-family rental strategy for the better part of two years now and are excited to formally launch our new business line. While our overall strategy to construct high quality lifestyle oriented buildings is consistent in the U.S. and Canada, our approach to executing the TLR business plan differs.

In the U.S. very similar to our land and homebuilding business, we will be partnering with local developers and acting as a dedicated limited partner, although that doesn't preclude us from bringing in third-party partners to help capitalize development projects from time to time. We will initially focus on the Southwest U.S., in particular Dallas, Phoenix, and San Diego. We know these markets well. They are growing fast and are attractive to institutional investors, but are not as competitive as the gateway cities. We've two projects secured in Dallas and a robust pipeline of deals to keep us busy over the next year or two.

In order to develop projects in the U.S., we've entered into partnership with Dallas-based StreetLights Residential. StreetLights is a full service development company with additional satellite offices in Phoenix, San Diego and Nashville and has in-house development, architecture, design, construction, and financial expertise. The principals of StreetLights were previously senior executives of Gables Residential, a large multi-family developer with over 60 stabilized properties of 20,000 units and within five years, they've turned StreetLights into the 17th largest apartment developer in the U.S. In Canada, we are partnering upfront with Canadian institutional investors to leverage our investment, and we will act as a sponsored general partner of the projects and earn development fees in the process.

To begin with, we plan to focus on Toronto but may expand into other markets over time. Notwithstanding high levels of condo construction rental supply, Toronto remains a very tight market with low vacancy and a strong need for professionally managed apartments.

We commenced construction of our first project called The Selby, which is a 50-story tower located on Sherbourne Street, one block south of Bloor. We've created a joint venture separate account to capitalize The Selby with Tricon investing 15% and acting as developer and a Canadian institutional investor providing the remaining 85%. To execute on our strategy in Toronto, we formed development subsidiary called Tricon Development Group with the hiring of two experienced managers, who will oversee the development of the project and manage the third-party construction manager.

Turning back to our Private Funds and Advisory business, in Q2 2015 THP2 US closed on a new high-density residential development project in the Litchfield Park submarket of Phoenix. As a result, the investment program for THP2 US is now complete. Also the sale of the partnership's ownership interest in [ph] River City, (20:55) Dallas, a 61-acre infill site located in downtown Dallas was successfully completed in Q2.

In Toronto, DNA3 located in the King West submarket has closed 99% of the residential units and sold the retail space to a large national REIT in Q2 2015. The closing resulted in a distribution of C$21.2 million to THP1 Canada and C$31 million to THP2 Canada in the quarter. As of June 30, 2015, AUM for THP1 Canada was only $5.4 million, or C$6.7 million with only one investment left to complete.

We continue to have a very strong pipeline of land and home building deals in the U.S. at an opportune time when market fundamentals are improving and institutional or private equity competition is relatively limited. We have multiple ways to finance the deal flow, including separate accounts and side-cars which, as we've said before, are becoming a more important part of our Private Funds and Advisory business as evidenced by the recent closing of our Viridian separate account.

Moreover, we continue to assess all fund raising options available to us with respect to all our business verticals, including investments by our traditional, institutional, and credit investment partners as well as capital raising through the public markets whether by Tricon or through another Tricon entity. We will communicate to the markets our fund raising plans when appropriate or necessary.

Finally, the formation of a new separate account in TLR Canada to develop and manage The Selby is an important milestone for the company as it represents the first time we've raised third-party capital outside of our traditional land and homebuilding business or THP. Our institutional partner will pay us market rate development fees during the construction of The Selby, asset or property management fees when the project is stabilized, and potentially performance fees upon the sale of a property. As we stated in the past, at the appropriate time we intend to capitalize our verticals with third-party capital in order to leverage our investment and generate contractual fee income for our Private Funds and Advisory business.

So, in conclusion, we are pleased with the progress we are making in our various housing verticals in our bid to establish ourselves as a leading diversified housing brand.

With that, I will pass the call back to the operator to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Jenny Ma with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jenny.

Congrats on the executive appointments.

Thanks.

My question is with regards to the MHC that you're contracted to buy. I was wondering if you could provide a little bit more detail. It looks like they are coming in at about [ph] C$25,000 (23:38) per pad, which is both half the value of the one that you've been buying before. So can you just talk a little bit about the property?

We can't get into too much detail at this point, Jenny, but what I can tell you is the cap rate is a little bit higher than what we've purchased in the past and the parks also have a little bit more occupancy, so they need more work, and that is one of the reasons why the overall purchase price is lower. But the quality of parks is similar to what we've acquired in the past.

You mean a little bit more vacancy?

Vacancy.

A little more vacancy, yes, a little more vacancy, sorry, yes.

Okay. Got you. And then with regards to the TLR in Canada, the 3.5% fee that you're getting for acting as development manager, are you going to be paying the third-party construction manager from that fee or is that a separate cost, like net-net you...

Yes. No...

Pardon?

...the 3.5% is net to us.

Okay.

The construction management fee is a separate fee.

Okay, perfect. And then lastly, would you be able to elaborate a little bit more on the payment structure of Faria in terms of getting one payment some time in 2016 and then what's to follow. I'm not sure I really follow what's the cost structure.

Yes. Again, unfortunately, we can't give you a lot more detail, except to tell you that the major payment will come in April 2016 and then there'll be smaller payments later. That's effectively all we can tell you.

No problem. Thanks a lot, guys. I'll turn it back.

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just to follow up on the Faria. So, I guess, I recognize you can't really say much about it. But would you say you feel more or less or about the same confidence level in terms of your ability to close on the transaction notwithstanding the delay?

Definitely more than where we were a quarter or two. It's under contract to a large public homebuilder. So we feel good about that and we feel really good about the price. There have been some delays, some caused by the purchaser, some caused by delays in advancing our entitlements which [ph] are matter (25:49) of course and which we need to deliver for the closing, but otherwise we feel very good about it. And this is really just a timing difference that's created a negative fair market value, Jimmy, and as we said we expect to recapture that or make that up over time.

Yes. Okay. Got it. And then in terms of the new multi-family development vertical, wondering if you could – beyond the three projects you talked about, can you give us a little bit more color on what the actual pipeline looks like. Where would it be? [ph] Would it be (26:19) similar in geographies?

Yes.

Yes.

Yes, so the main focus is really in the U.S. and StreetLights has a pipeline of about 2,600 units. That does not mean that we will act on all of them, but we do have a robust pipeline in our existing initial target markets, which would obviously be Dallas, Phoenix and San Diego. So we expect this vertical to be capital intensive and that's one of the reasons why we wanted to do the 'bought deal'.

Okay. And in Dallas in particular, there is quite a bit of development underway. I suppose you're pretty confident in your ability to sort of achieve the development yield that you're looking to achieve given the strength of the market. Maybe if you could give us some color on your comfort level in achieving those yields?

Yes. There definitely is more supply in some submarkets, but let's keep in mind that Dallas is growing incredibly well. The job growth last year was about 100,000 and is the strongest or one of the strongest markets in the U.S. So we feel really good about the prospects in terms of job growth and therefore the need for more multi-family development. Our project called the Harvard is located near Highland Park and it's a submarket where there isn't a lot of competition and we're targeting that market really to empty-nesters, to divorcées and so we think we really have a specific niche there, which isn't being well serviced. And I think as we said before, the average rent in that building will be about $4,000 a unit, which just compares to the actual property taxes alone in the Highland Park submarket for single-family homes. So we think we've got a very attractive niche there. And then the project which is at Frisco, which is up the Tollway, there is a little bit of supply coming online in that submarket, but the amount of growth that's taking place with our corporate relocations really requires the need for more housing. So we feel good about where we're locating and investing in these buildings.

Okay. Great. Last question on the Tricon American Homes. So, 94% occupancy, obviously that's the highest you've achieved so far. Is it sort of as good as it gets. Beyond any new acquisition, would you say that the current quarterly NOI rent of $11.2 million is a good stabilized run rate or do you see further upside there?

Yes. No, I think we can do better. I don't think 94% is as good as it gets. Actually, if you look at some of our more mature markets where we haven't acquired homes in a long time were actually at 96% or 97%. So we can definitely do better. There is always that tension, Jimmy, between what is your occupancy and whether you want to drive rents or not. And so I think we'll probably feel comfortable at 95%. I think if we start to get much above that, we're probably not doing a good enough job of driving the rents.

Okay. Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Stephen MacLeod from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Hi, Steve.

Hey, Steve.

Just wanted to circle around on THP1 US, can you just talk a little bit about the cadence of cash flows, I guess, including and then beyond Faria Preserve over the next sort of 18 months to 24 months?

Yes. Thanks, Steve. So Steve, if you look at THP1 US and what we've mentioned earlier that we're expecting about $280 million of free cash coming from just Tricon's portion between now and the end of 2018. And you've looked at what we've realized today, which is $114 million, that's just the Tricon. So you've got to keep that in mind. That's just the 68.4% interest. Just remember for the fund business, we essentially have to return a preferred return of about – if you look at on average, about 9%. And then we get into the invested capital repayment. And if you do the math and I'm happy to walk you through the math after the call if you'd like, we essentially have returned all of the preferred return almost at this stage and now we're getting into the capital repayment plan.

Okay. That's great. Thank you. And then just turning to Tricon American Homes, Gary, you mentioned that you do still see some expansion opportunities. Are you talking about expansion opportunities within the 13 markets you're currently in or do you think there are new markets that you could potentially still enter?

No. There are other markets we could expand into, Steve. And we're in the process of looking at those, and we'll probably be able to talk more about our acquisition program next quarter. As we ramp it up again, we could probably give you more color on the Q3 call. But we do think there's opportunity to expand into new markets, but I think most importantly, we need to obviously achieve scale in some of our existing markets, and we still see a lot of opportunity in those markets. So I think the majority of the focus will be clearly on existing markets, but over time, we might add one or two markets.

Okay. And would you – I mean I'm guess we'll wait for color for Q3, but would it be safe to assume that those are still sort of in those 'smile' states in the southern states?

Yes.

Yes. Okay, great. Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Steve.

There are no further questions at this time and I will turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, operator. I would like to thank all of you in this call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in November when we discuss the results for Q3 2015. Enjoy the rest of your summer.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.