Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Executive Chairman and Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Sarah, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Second Quarter Results Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

David Berman, you may begin your conference.

Thanks, Sarah. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ending 30th of June 2013, which results was sent out in the news release we distributed earlier this morning. Our quarterly financial statements and MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR. Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until August 19.

Before we get started, I remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our Limited Partnership plans. This information, by its nature, is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent short form prospectus and annual information form which are available on SEDAR.

I will start with a summary of this quarter's highlights. Normally, I will then hand over to June Alikhan, our CFO, to review our key financial results. Unfortunately, June had a family emergency in the early hours of this morning and so she will not be able to participate in this call. So, I will provide the overview on her behalf.

Gary, Tricon's President, will then provide an overview of our single-family rental and asset management business, after which Jonathan Ellenzweig and Adrian Rocca will join us as we take your questions.

This morning, we announced another strong quarter of financial results, including adjusted EBITDA of over CAD 8 million or approximately CAD 23 million year-to-date, driven largely by the success of our single-family rental platform. This segment of our business continues to generate meaningful cash flow, outperforming our peer group on key metrics such as gross yield and occupancy rate. We achieved net operating income of CAD 2.4 million in Q2, which is approximately 15% higher than Q1.

Furthermore, we recorded another uplift in fair market value for our rental portfolio, further demonstrating the upside that is achievable through home price appreciation. This quarter's results include an increase in the fair value of our single-family rental investment of CAD 5 million after making provision for performance fees, potentially payable to our operating partners. This CAD 5 million represents a roughly 3% to 5% increase per quarter in acquisition basis of the properties including upfront CapEx.

Results for our asset management business continue to be very stable and prospects for raising additional third-party AUM look good. Although the U.S. fund-raising environment remains difficult, we are making good progress in growing the capitalization of Tricon XI and expect to announce the second closing in Q3, which will roughly double the size of the fund.

Furthermore, we are working with major institutional investors on a separate account basis to acquire major single-family land positions in Houston and Phoenix [ph] and development of our (3:40) blue chip operating partners. These two prospective separate accounts will increase our third-party AUM by USD 100 million, and along with the second close for Tricon XI, should prepare our AUM to CAD 1.5 billion by year-end, a nearly 40% increase since the end of last year. On July 22, we announced a very exciting and transformative transaction for our company where we agreed to acquire up to 68.4% interest in Tricon IX, a dedicated U.S. residential development fund managed by Tricon with total committed capital of approximately USD 332 million.

This transaction closed yesterday at a net purchase price of approximately USD 261 million, which nearly doubled the size of our company without requiring any operational changes and will provide us with additional cash flow to continue to grow our Fund Management business. Gary will address this transaction in greater detail later on this call.

I'm also pleased to announce that on August 13, our board of directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on September 30. The dividend will be payable on October 15, 2013.

Our single-family rental strategy has driven significant increases in all key financial metrics for the quarter with year-over-year revenue growth of 39%, year-over-year adjusted EBITDA growth of 402%, and year-over-year adjusted net income growth of 310%. Furthermore, adjusted basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share increased 114% and 93%, respectively, from CAD 0.14 to CAD 0.30 and CAD 0.27, respectively. As the company continues to grow, [ph] we also (5:36) have incurred incremental expenses largely related to the single-family rental strategy and other new growth initiatives.

Specifically, salaries and benefits increased by CAD 501,000 year-over-year, driven by the addition of two senior executives and several back-office staff. Our professional fees increased by CAD 309,000 year-over-year from increased order fees as result of a change in scope given the company's growth, and legal and tax fees incurred, and new strategic growth initiatives. Our general and administrative expenses increased by CAD 350,000 year-over-year as a result of increased public company costs, combined relocation expenses related to unused San Francisco office.

I will now turn the presentation over to Gary Berman who'll provide some additional insight on our single-family rental business and on the residential real estate markets in the United States and Canada. Gary?

Thanks, David. And I'll remind everyone in my remarks when I refer to the term we, I'm speaking about our operating partners or development partners.

As David mentioned, in Q2, we achieved a significant milestone in our single-family rental strategy with the closing of CAD 150 million credit facility with Deutsche Bank. The facility which is priced at LIBOR plus 360 basis points will allow our operating partners to continue their acquisition activity using a less expensive source of capital, thereby enhancing our cash and cash returns. As of today, we've drawn approximately CAD 35 million under the facility and expect to draw CAD 20 million to CAD 25 million per month through the end of the year to finance future acquisitions.

In terms of acquisition activity, last quarter when we bought 318 homes, I told you that this would be a bit of a lumpy process and some of you questioned whether the buying window had closed. This quarter, our operating partners acquired 696 homes, more than double last quarter at yields in line with historical rates. That being said, our operating partners are maintaining a disciplined approach and are cognizant of the diminishing foreclosure pipeline and rising prices in some of the markets and therefore, has slowed their acquisition activity in California and Phoenix where we expect to stop buying in both markets by year-end.

This slowdown will likely be reflected in our Q3 acquisition volume. But purchasing should ramp up again in Q4 as our partners enter new target markets that have larger distressed backlogs or resell inventories. Specifically, we and our local existing operating partners are in the final stages of diligence for three new markets: Las Vegas, Tampa Bay, and San Antonio. As I noted on our last call, we put a lot of effort into analyzing a number of potential new markets, and we believe that these three possess strong, long-term housing fundamentals.

In addition, we are very focused on the total return potential for each market which is based on the culmination of current yield which is generally more stable and will underpin our financial performance and long-term home price appreciation, or HPA, which will provide us with meaningful upside. Las Vegas and Tampa represent national extensions of our business as they bear strong similarities to our platforms in Phoenix and Southeast Florida, respectively.

Las Vegas is a growing city where our partners can buy newer homes, which we expect will have strong home price appreciation over the next five years. Their buying program will be focused in the northern part of the city as well as the east side in and around Henderson.

Tampa Bay was similarly hard hit by the housing downturn and has a housing stock which has several similarities to the homes owned in Charlotte and Southeast Florida. We've identified a number of key infill and suburban neighborhoods and see opportunity for very attractive current yields which should be augmented by home price appreciation.

Finally, San Antonio represents an opportunity for us to enter a city and state which possesses long-term financial stability with what we believe to be very minimal downside risks. Furthermore, San Antonio should allow us to capture mid 7% unlevered returns plus upside through not only HPA from improving municipal and state economy anchored by a strong military presence, but also the untapped potential of the nearby Eagle Ford Shale formation which rivals the Bakken formation. In summary, we remain confident that we'll achieve our target of 3,000 homes by year-end and 4,000 homes over the course of next year.

With regards to ongoing operations, we continue to see very consistent demand on the leasing side. During the quarter, our operators leased 464 homes at rates in line with the underwriting. Furthermore, the occupancy rate for homes owned at the end of the first quarter increased from 76% to 87%. However, the substantial acquisition volume in Q2 resulted in a nominal decline in our portfolio [ph] while occupancy rates at (10:19) 74% as a result of a large number of new acquisitions which are being renovated or ready for lease-up but not yet leased.

As far as new leases or turnover goes, we've been seeing roughly 2% to 3% annual rent increases in most of our markets. Our occupancy rate for homes on six months or more declined slightly during the quarter though remained in an industry-leading level of 90%. The decline was a result of the decision to renovate a meaningful number of homes in the 550-unit Charlotte portfolio that were previously occupied at the time of acquisition, December 2012. The homes being renovated were formally leased at rates significantly below market, and our partner's plan is to capture market rents through the renovation process.

It should be noted that the six-month occupancy rate would be over 93% if the Charlotte portfolio had been excluded in the calculation, which is slightly higher than the rate for the overall portfolio at the end of Q1. We're also seeing relative consistency in net operating margins and believe that our current level of 60% will be sustainable going forward.

Lastly, as David noted, in Q2, we booked an increase in the unrealized fair value of our portfolio driven by higher AUM results of roughly 3% to 5% per quarter across all of our markets. We expect home values to continue increasing over the upcoming quarters although this may not occur on a smooth trajectory.

As a whole, we remain extremely satisfied with the performance of our single-family rental strategy and believe our operating partners are well-positioned to capitalize on a buying window, which should extend through the remainder of this year and into 2014. Furthermore, our partners remain focused on not only buying new homes but also renovating and leasing our portfolio with a target turnover period of 90 days.

As David previously mentioned, we closed yesterday on the purchase of an approximately 68.4% limited partnership interest in Tricon IX Limited Partnership, a dedicated U.S. residential development fund managed by Tricon with total capital of approximately USD 332 million which is now fully committed. Tricon IX's investment strategy, in conjunction with our local development partners, was to fund the acquisition and development of financially distressed U.S. residential real estate primarily in titled land, finished and partially finished lots, largely through the purchase of discounted bank notes, [ph] OREO, (12:38) bankruptcy sales, and sales from other motivated buyers at significant discount to peak pricing.

Tricon IX investments have typically been financed in an all-cash basis with little to no debt financing on a property or development. As a result of the co-investment, Tricon will hold the majority interest in eight cash flowing residential development portfolios at various stages completion located in San Francisco and the Greater East Bay Area, Sacramento, Southern California, Phoenix, Atlanta, and Miami. This transaction was funded by the issuance for approximately USD 252 million worth of common shares, issued at $6.15 per share as well as USD 45 million revolving debt facility from JPMorgan Chase and the World Bank in Canada.

We consider the co-investment in Tricon IX to be a transformative transaction as it nearly doubles the size of the company and provides shareholders with meaningful exposure to U.S. plan and homebuilding projects at the beginning of what could be a long-term up cycle in U.S. housing. We believe the co-investment in Tricon IX is compelling for a number of strategic and economic reasons.

First, Tricon's pure-play investment strategy to obtain exposure to the U.S. housing recovery is supercharged by having land and homebuilding related assets towards single-family rental platform. As far as we're aware, Tricon is the only publicly-traded company in Canada and possibly in North America to provide shareholders with meaningful exposure to both U.S. land and homebuilding operations and single-family rental.

Second, this transaction is expected to be accretive on an earnings per share basis between 15% and 30% in 2013 through 2015 and generate approximately 15% to 20% compounded annual returns through the use of modest leverage roughly 25% loan-to-cost and the build-out of two [indiscernible] (14:25) assets in San Francisco and the surrounding area.

Finally, the transaction will essentially double the size of the company's principal investment strategy without occurring any operational changes. Over time, it is our expectation that the company's larger market capitalization will result in a lower cost of capital and provide shareholders with increased liquidity.

In terms of the investment environment, we continue to seek extremely attractive investment opportunities particularly related to urban infill and well-located suburban land development projects in United States. Our strategy for Tricon XI, the successor fund to Tricon IX, is to invest in well-located residential development projects which are purchased from distressed or motivated sellers where the business plan would be to either build that homes or multifamily projects with our local development partners or service the land and sell to public and major private homebuilders.

In this regard, we have already committed to six quality investments representing approximately USD 120 million that together projected to generate a gross IRR of 24%. We believe there is potentially upside to these returns as U.S. housing market is in the early stages of a full recovery. It could last multiple years given the magnitude of the downturn.

Investment in the Canadian new housing market particularly in Toronto has become increasingly difficult as a result of a multitude of factors including a tighter lending environment for both acquisition and construction loans and for end loans for consumer mortgages, increased investor skepticism caused by negative headlines and debt warnings by the Bank of Canada, construction cost inflation, and increased development levies and taxes.

In addition, affordability is relatively low in comparison to historic norms, leaving the market with little buffer room if mortgage rates were to spike further. While there have been concerns that the condo market may be severely overheated and experience a U.S. stock correction, we believe that the most probable course is a soft landing, with prices flat to down 10% and new sales retreating back to more normalized levels this year and next year.

Accordingly, we continue to take an extremely cautious approach to new investment activity although we believe that the current correction or shakeup could lead to increased opportunities in the future particularly for well-capitalized and experienced asset managers such as Tricon.

From an asset management perspective, we've been proactive in the management of existing investments in the Toronto condo market including the portfolios in funds Tricon VIII, X and new fund Tricon XII. In this regard, we are pleased to report that of the Toronto condo projects we've invested in, roughly 93% of the 3,000-plus units have been sold with 20% deposits or greater.

While the overall Canadian housing market remains relatively stable, notwithstanding a more onerous investment environment in the Toronto condo space, we believe there are better risk-adjusted investment opportunities in the United States. With roughly 97% of our balance sheet invested in the U.S. and more U.S. fund in separate accounts on the way, Tricon is very well-positioned to capitalize in U.S. housing recovery through its exposure to both residential land and new housing and our investments in U.S. single-family rental.

I'll now turn it back to David.

Thanks, Gary. And in conclusion and as I discussed last quarter, Tricon continues to pursue opportunistic residential real estate business across the United States and Canada.

I believe that our current platforms of financing residential development and acquiring, renovating, and leasing single-family homes through our operating partners are just the start. And over the years, we will have the appropriate times into interrelated and complementary business lines without foregoing our underlying operating strategy, that being a residential real estate asset manager for our investors and for ourselves. We look forward to adding value for our shareholders in the quarters and years to come and appreciate your faith in the company and our management team.

We now welcome questions. I will take the questions and then hand them over to my appropriate colleague for answers. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Geoff.

First question I had was just with the single-family residential you're talking about with Las Vegas, Tampa, and San Antonio, they're generally geographically different areas than where you've operate beforehand. But I was just curious as to whether or not you would be using existing operating partners, whether or not it's the management's teams or the firms that you do the renovations on?

Jon?

Sure. Thanks, Geoff. At this point in time, the way we're looking at entering these new markets is through some of our existing local operating partners by absorbing on the ground team. So, we recognize that real estate in general and our single-family rental business is a very local business. So, to say that we could just parachute people in who don't know the local market, I think it would be a mistake [indiscernible] (19:44) But what we're doing is finding people on the grounds who have been doing this to allot capital support and pairing them with our local operators who already have all the back office and reporting capabilities that we require for this institutional business and pairing those groups together.

So, in Las Vegas, we kind of have an on-the-ground team and we're pairing them with a couple of our West Coast partners. Similarly, in Tampa Bay, our Southeast Florida and Charlotte partner, Lake Success, is in the process of finalizing the agreement for a local group, both have been doing this for several years. And San Antonio also is coming through on some of the West Coast partners. So, it's really a combination of new on-the-ground experts with our existing operators.

Okay. So – sorry, what?

Go ahead.

I'll just say so it sounds like I guess, a little bit of a hybrid where you're using your local operating partners existing to kind of work with the new people on the ground in these cities? Is that right?

Right. Our local operating partners already have software systems and reporting capabilities in place. But they're obviously not the on-the-ground experts in these markets and so it's a combination of those two.

Yeah. See, I don't think...

Jon, if I could just – yeah, David, go ahead.

Yeah. The only thing I would just add that of the three markets, two of them we've – certainly in Las Vegas, we have a head operations before in our Fund Management business. And we have spent quite a bit of time looking at Tampa from a Funds Management business. So, the only market that we probably don't have is much experience in in San Antonio.

Gary, go ahead.

And the one – yeah, the one thing I would add to that is in San Antonio, one of our West Coast partners spent many years in San Antonio as a home-builder. So, they know that market well and that gave us more comfort to look at that market with them.

Okay. The second question I had was with respect to Tricon XI, are you guys thinking that there's going to be – I know you have time to be able to do it. Do you think that there'll be a number or will there be additional closings on that? And then, also on the separate accounts, I know you disclosed that you've got a couple of things look like they're in the hopper or relatively – hopefully close to being completed. Are there other stuff that you're looking at that you think have a reasonable chance of getting – being getting done in the next, call it, three to four quarters?

Gary, do you want to take that?

Sure. With respect to Tricon XI, as we reported, we expect to have a second closing in Q3 which will roughly double the size of the fund. And then, we technically have 'til December 3 to have a final closing. I doubt we'll have intermediate or interim closings. We'll probably have one more, and that will obviously depend on any institutional demand for a final closing. So, that would wrap it up for Tricon XI. There is a bit of a healthy tension there given that our existing lead investor recognizes that our active investments are in the money and that they'll be diluted by letting an additional participant. So, there is a bit of a tension, and we don't have a lot more time to wrap that up and have a final close.

And then, with respect to – we have a couple separate accounts which are in the final days, I would say, of going through the legal process. So, we hope to be able to announce those very soon. We're also working on potentially one or two other separate accounts, which we would hope to close in the next, call it, two to four quarters.

So, we're always actively working on new projects. Some we do due diligence on and find don't make sense, and then, in other times new opportunities pop up. But I would say, Geoff, we expect to report a lot of active closings either for our Fund business or separate accounts over this year. And I think that will really show our shareholders and the investment community that our asset management business is really a key driver of Tricon's growth.

Okay. And the last question I have was just on the performance fees. I mean, it moved up a little bit this quarter, but with the transaction that you guys just closed, I mean, wanting to put more investment into some of the projects, I mean I kind of thought performance fees might materially start picking up in about a year from now. Does that time line kind of get pushed back a little bit with what's been going on or is that the way that you guys kind of forecasting things?

Actually, it will be – as a result of the Tricon IX acquisition, there will be some performance fees recognized in Q3, so that will be a lot sooner than we anticipated. And the next big uptake in performance fees will be towards the end of 2014, which will come from [indiscernible] (24:37) pretty much as expected.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Jenny Ma with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Good morning, everybody.

Good morning, Jenny.

I wanted to talk about the trajectory of home price appreciation in some of the U.S. markets. There's a lot of press talking about some of your competitors who may be a little bit less discerning with regard to making investments and the price that they're paying.

So, my question for you is that, to the extent that you have home price appreciation in some of your markets, that happens a lot faster than you expect or to a greater extent than you expect, would you reconsider some of your rental homes for flipping? Because I know that you target a different price point for the flip inventory that you have some lower price point properties for leasing. If the appreciation comes off sooner that you expect, would you consider selling these?

Jon, Gary?

Sure. This is Gary.

Gary.

Jon, go ahead. Okay. I'll go first. Jenny, so look, we're in this business really for the income. And I think that's a bit of a disparity between us and some of our competitors. Our competitors' strategy – and really, what Dave always viewed as the biggest risk was under-accumulating, not overpaying. So, they wanted to buy as many homes as they can today and really play for the home price appreciation. Our strategy in our rental program has really to be in to play for yield and to make sure that we get compensated for the risks we take. And therefore, if we get any home price appreciation, it's really great. And that continues to be our philosophy.

So, I would say, in the short term, it's very unlikely that we would sell our rental portfolio even if we see home price appreciation start to stabilize because we really feel that the cash and cash return that we're going to be able to generate with this new Deutsche Bank facility are very, very attractive. And we're going to generate, before any securitization, cash and cash returns in probably that 12% or 13% return range. And if securitization takes place, we could be in the mid-teens or higher.

So, we view that to be very attractive in the short term given the current interest rate environment. So, I would say it's unlikely. But what you are seeing is that we are shifting our strategy or allocation from markets where we're seeing less distressed inventory where prices are a little – ran up quickly and we're going into markets that are a little bit further behind in the cycle and have a larger backlog. So, that doesn't mean that we'll exit – we might exit California, Arizona from a perspective of buying new homes, but it doesn't mean that we'll sell our existing portfolio on the short term.

So is it fair to say you'll stay take a 90%-10% approach to rental stock versus flipping stock?

Yeah. I think maybe for the next quarter or so, but you're going to start to see that diminish over time, because we've been able to be opportunistic in our flip strategy. Again, that was driven by the fact that we're at a lot of these foreclosures or auctions and we see homes that are, let's say, roughly CAD 150,000 to CAD 250,000 which maybe aren't great candidates for rental but they're just still good homes where there's perhaps less competition because our competitors aren't buying in the rent either.

So, we can buy those homes and flip them but the reason we're able to make money is because home prices – one of the reasons, in addition to finding there's a discount is because home prices have been moving up. So, as we see less distressed inventory in those markets and we see potential for home price appreciation to basically plateau, you'll see us reduce the amount of flip inventory that we purchase going forward.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan with GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just on the [indiscernible] (28:45) business, I think, Gary, you mentioned that you're working on one or two separate accounts. Would those be on top of the USD 110 million that was in the press release?

No. So, well, we're working on two specific separate accounts that are mentioned or alluded to in the press release.

Right.

And the closing to those separate accounts will be hopefully announced in the coming days or weeks.

Right.

So, those are two specific separate accounts. We're also working on one or two in addition to that. But at this point, we're still in diligence, so we wouldn't say those are imminent or certain at this point. But they're ones we're actively working on.

Okay. Great.

Just to clarify, Jimmy, the two that we're working on, one is really very imminent; the other one will take a little bit longer. It will take maybe a month or so rather than a couple of weeks. But that is still a very strong indication that that will be successful. And if the other two happened, they will be of similar magnitude to the USD 100 million, USD 110 million that we mentioned in the press release.

Okay. Got it. And then turning to the single-family rental, the Charlotte portfolio, the units that you've put under renovation, I recall when you acquired the portfolio, it had a very high going in the cap rate of north of [ph] 12. (30:08) So, post CapEx, where do you think that return on investment will look like after everything is done?

Jon, do you want to take that?

Certainly. Hi, Jimmy. I would suggest that the homes in the Charlotte portfolio that are being renovated will have – it's not the same, a slightly higher cap rate post renovation. And part of what we're doing is really improving the quality of the homes to reduce the kind of long-term maintenance and CapEx requirements of the properties and as well as we turn these homes or increasing the rents [indiscernible] (30:43) putting higher-quality tenants in place.

So, it's not just a value add in terms of enhancing yields, it's also a value add in terms of having a better quality product [indiscernible] (30:52) cost of maintenance requirements and higher-quality tenants in place who would hopefully stay longer.

So, the units that you've put into renovation, there was tenants – they were paying rent tenants, but it's just – like, was there an issue with the bad debt or was there anything that instigated this renovation program or was that already [indiscernible] (31:15) [ph]

It was final (31:16) when we acquired the portfolio. We identified homes that we thought the rents were right under market or where we can renovate the homes and significantly increase value. And so, we had a strategy initially where we would try to push rents in certain instances and the tenants won't be able to pay the higher rent would have been to take that home off the market, renovate it and put it back on at a higher rate.

Okay. Okay. And then, I think you mentioned Phoenix and certain parts of California, you're looking probably by the end of this year to stop buying there. And I was curious as to whether in terms of the prices you're seeing in those markets, is it that the prices have reached a level where your yield parameters aren't working or is it that they've reached a level where it's getting close to replacement cost or both?

It's really largely a case of are you in parameters. As you know, we're very focused on current yields as well as home price appreciation, and we have targets for each market on a yield basis. And we've seen as home prices increase, it gets more challenging to hit the yields that we're looking for. In a lot of these markets, for example, in Phoenix, homes are still slightly below our [indiscernible] (32:32) replacement costs, it's just that the yields are tight.

So, maybe if you can give me an example, like are you – how much have the yield compressed, let's say, over the last six months from a gross yield perspective? [indiscernible]

(32:47) Phoenix, there's 25 basis points to 60 basis points.

Yeah. Right. So, let's just say it's not hitting your yield parameters but in terms of future home price appreciation beyond that, we should probably still expect some given that they're still below replacement costs. Is that fair?

Correct. Correct.

Yeah, Jimmy, if I could add to that, I mean, even though we're not buying as many as we did, we're still buying homes in Phoenix at roughly [ph] CAD 60 (33:18) a square foot, maybe a little bit higher kind of pre-CapEx. So, we consider that to be meaningfully below replacement cost. I mean, replacement cost is probably closer to [ph] CAD 100. (33:28) It's just that we're having trouble hitting the yield. So, there is a ploy to be made, I think still to buy some of these homes if your entire strategy is HPA. But as we have articulated, we are really driving yield first and looking for blended yield across the portfolio, HPA second. So, we just want to be careful with that.

Yeah. And then maybe turning to your land and housing business which I think now become more relevant. I wondered if you talk to your various developer partners, what are you guys seeing in terms of any potential impact of the rising rates of late?

Gary, do you want to take that?

Yeah. Sure. We're seeing, anecdotally, very minimal impact at our projects. Although, I think if you look at the surveys or you canvas the industry, there – we're certainly probably going to go for a few weeks and some of that is going to be affected by the seasonal factors where there's going to be a slowdown and probably traffic and absorptions as the market digest the higher rates, because if you look at the costs of a median-priced home, probably 15% to 20% higher on a carry basis with higher mortgages than where it was a year ago.

So, the market needs to absorb that, but we have to understand that in a greater context which is that, still by historical standards, the average of a median-priced home in U.S. has almost never been more affordable. And when we look at the affordability metric, the median household in the U.S. can afford to carry nearly 1.75 and even nearly two median-priced homes. So, that's incredibly affordable. Who wouldn't want to take that if they could, a 30-year mortgage with 4.5%?

So, it's still very affordable. And we're seeing – our particular projects, we're really not seeing much of an impact. Any impact would be really more seasonable in Q2. And we will report this going forward now that we've made a major co-investment in Tricon IX. But in Q2 for example, we sold 282 lots or homes at our various projects in Tricon IX, which is 5% of our total inventory. So, that would be, if it's annualized, it's about 20% of the inventory. So, that's pretty meaningful. And we haven't seen any impact of the higher rates.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of [ph] Dan Goldberg (36:07) with Desjardins. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, [ph] Dan. (36:12)

You guys went public May 2010. Stock's really not done much. I know you like to emphasize you went public the day of the flash crash. We've seen you guys come in very early on the U.S. homes, a great fall. You've seen price appreciation from what I read all the time. Was it worthwhile going public? I mean, should you consider privatizing the company? You have not created much shareholder value at the end of the day.

From our perspective, certainly, I would agree with you. We started off at CAD 6 a share. We are now at, give or take, CAD 6.20, CAD 6.25, I'm not quite sure what it is this morning. From that perspective, we haven't created a lot of value. From a pure share price, we have continued to pay dividend which we will continue to pay certainly for the foreseeable future, which produces a 4% return, which, in today's environment, is a pretty reasonable return.

We believe that over the long term – and when we went public, we told our prospective shareholders at that point in time that this is a long-term play if you, as a shareholder, will be coming along and expect to see massive increases in AUM and growth for growth's sake, Tricon was not the company.

We still believe that. We believe we are well on our way to moving this company along a very profitable and growing path. Certainly, our underlying cash value, if I could call it that or book value, has moved dramatically in this period of time which therefore underpins the stock. So, in any way, there's a much better investments. And we think, over time, the market will recognize what we have been doing, but certainly there's no intention or even thinking of taking the company private at this point in time.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Yeah. If I could just add to that. I mean, we're incredibly excited about our growth prospects. And really, if you go back in time, you have to remember that one of the major reasons why the stock came down precipitously after the IPO price at CAD 6 is because one of our major shareholders changed an account manager and we're forced to liquidate their position which drove the stock down to the CAD 3.54 range.

So, we – at that point in time, we recognized that we really had an issue with liquidity and we made it a priority to grow the company and we've achieved that.

If you look at the liquidity since that time, it has increased tremendously. So, I think from that point in time, which might be a more appropriate time to look at the stock given that the vast, vast majority of our shareholders today are once have entered post IPO, we've actually generated tremendous growth far more than the average market whether it's a small cap or large cap indexes. And we've also added a huge amount of liquidity.

So, I think from that point, it's been a very good investment for shareholders. And I think that's reflecting the fact that we're able to continue to raise money because the vast majority of shareholders have done well.

Great. Thanks.

And we have no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, Sarah. So, in concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in November when we discuss our results for the third quarter of 2013. Thanks, all.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.