Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Executive Chairman, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Glenn Watchorn — Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Jeffrey Olin — President and CEO, Portfolio Manager, Vision Capital Corporation

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Tricon Second Quarter Investor Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in the listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on August 13, 2012.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, David Berman. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ending June 30, 2012, which results were shared out in the news release we distributed earlier this morning.

With me today in our offices are June Alikhan; our Chief Financial Officer, Gary Bermanm; President and Co-Chief Operating Officer, Glenn Watchorn; Co-Chief Operating Officer, and Jonathan Ellenzweig; Vice President.

Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until August 20.

Before we get started, I'd remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our limited partnership funds. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our most recent annual information form, which is available on SEDAR.

I will start with a summary of second quarter highlights, June will then very briefly review key financial metrics, after which I will comment on our outlook and business prospects. And Gary, Glenn, and John will provide some commentary on what we are seeing in the markets in which we operate. We'll then be pleased to take your questions.

As you might be aware, Tricon announced record financial result this morning, with year-over-year increases of over 100% in our key earnings metrics. Assets under management grew by over CAD 200 million during the quarter to almost CAD 1.2 billion. We closed a major separate account investment in Houston and had a very successful launch of our single family for rent platform. Overall, a banner quarter for Tricon.

In our asset management business, fund raising was finalized for our new Canadian fund, Tricon XII, during the quarter with a loss commitment of CAD 10 million coming from a Canadian corporate foundation. This investment brings our total fund size to CAD 196 million, which is by far a record for Tricon's Canadian fund business. We're also nearing the end of documentation, finally I might say, for our new U.S. discrete fund Tricon XI, and now, I expect this close in the next few weeks. After which we will go out to the broader market.

In addition, during the quarter, we closed the previously-announced $150 million Cross Creek separate account in partnership with the large Canadian institutional investor to support the acquisition and development of the award-winning 3,200 acre Cross Creek master planned community in Houston. The company has committed approximately 10% of the required capital to the transaction with the balance being committed by Tricon's institutional partner and the project developer.

In our principal investing business, we formally launched our U.S. single family for rent-platform during the quarter, which is being funded by the proceeds from an approximately CAD 50 million equity offering completed during the quarter and a similarly sized comparable debenture offering completed subsequent to quarter end.

We're now actively buying, renovating and leasing homes in five markets across United States with the four operating partners and as of 400 homes. Given that it generally takes 69 days until these homes are cash flowing, we don't expect this strategy to produce meaningful financial results until Q4 2012, which make the second quarter record results even more significant.

Finally, I'm pleased to announce that August 9, our board of directors declared an unchanged quarterly dividend payment in the amount CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on September 30. The dividend will be payable on October 13, 2012.

With that, I'll now turn our presentation over to June, for a summary of how we performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thanks, David. Tricon financial results released earlier today are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS and are presented in Canadian dollars unless noted otherwise. The management's discussion and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website and SEDAR.

Tricon's net and comprehensive income for the quarter was CAD 2,159,000 or CAD 0.08 per share as compared to loss CAD 509,000 or CAD 0.03 per share for the corresponding quarter in 2011. Although, we are very pleased with this meaningful improvement in net income, it remains management's opinion that adjusted base EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted net income are more useful metrics for assessing the performance of the company since these excludes non-recurring and non-cash items, including the significant potential LTIP related expense.

We're therefore even more pleased to report that adjusted base EBITDA for the quarter increased by approximately 145% to CAD 2,912,000 when compared to Q2 2011 largely as a result of the contractual management fees and interest earned from the co-investment and the management of the Cross Creek Ranch separate investment accounts, as well as a general partner distribution catch-up from Tricon XII on the additional commitment of CAD 10 million. Adjusted EBITDA also had a meaningful increase for the same reason. Similarly, adjusted net income increased by nearly 200%.

In summary, we're clearly pleased but not surprised with the strong improvements in our key financial metrics as we continue to advance both our asset management and principal investing businesses.

I will now turn the presentation back to David.

Thank you, June. In order to provide shareholders with additional insights on the residential real estate markets in Canada and the United States including our new single family for rent platform, I have invited Glenn, Gary and John to provide some additional commentary. Glenn?

Thank you, David. The recovery in the U.S. housing market continued to gain momentum through the second quarter of 2012. It resulted the confluence of many factors including reduced levels in new and retail inventory, strong investor activity in the retail sector, historically high affordability, and perhaps more importantly, shift to a more positive tone towards housing in the media.

Our expectation and that of many industry observers is that 2012 will be the first year since 2006 in which the U.S. housing – U.S. will experience home pricing – will experience home pricing inflation. In fact, prices in many of the markets in which we've been investing has already begun to rise. Many of our actively selling communities have seen significant increase in both sales and pricing over the last quarter.

For instance, one of our Phoenix project [indiscernible] (07:43) sold at almost twice the rate per month over the second quarter deterring the previous 12 months even while increasing prices. Similarly, our [indiscernible] (07:52) project in Miami, which launched in June this year achieved sales in the first two months equal to our projections for the first 12 months at prices higher than recently budgeted and has been increased during the sales process.

This recent improvement in pricing is a significant step towards the ultimate recovery at the housing market. There's been a strong correlation in previous housing recoveries between home price inflation and home sales as buyers tend to make purchases when they have confidence that values are not declining. Further evidence of this correlation can be seen in the latest improvements in the new home sales statistics with an increase in sales closing to the 18% quarter-over-quarter and an increase of 20% for the first two quarters of 2012 versus the same period in 2011.

With builders reporting sales order is increasing at an even higher pace, it's not surprising to find that housing starts are up significantly with an increase of 30% quarter-over-quarter and 27% for the first two quarters of 2012 versus the same period in 2011. The importance of a substantial increase in housing sales and starts to the health of the U.S. economy and job growth cannot be underestimated.

The U.S. housing downturn and related economic recession has resulted in a significant reduction in overall investment in residential real estate. And for the last four years to five years, this has been a large drag in the nation's GDP. A return to historic levels would not only significantly boost GDP, but also create more jobs. The housing starts continue to grow at the expected rate of 20% per annum for the next two years, it's estimated that 750,000 to 1 million new construction jobs to be created by 2014.

Notwithstanding the [indiscernible] (09:40), as we mentioned in last quarter's report, the constrained availability of credits and the large shadow inventory of homes remain as an impediment to the full housing recovery. Moreover, the strength of the housing recovery is dependent on a continued improvement of economic conditions in the U.S., which could be challenged by macro shops stemming from the upcoming Presidential election and the European debt crisis. Such macro concerns have already affected consumer sentiment with the consumer confidence index declining in the second quarter.

While shadow inventory decreased sharply and credits availability continues to improve, the pace of improvement will be tempered by these macro factors, and the managers still expects the market will take until the end of 2013 to reach a normalized balanced state. That said, we remain very bullish on the U.S. housing market when we continue see a healthy pipeline of opportunistic transactions with extremely attractive risk adjusted returns. This should bode well for the beginning of our newest fund Tricon XI and Jonathan will mention our new single-family rental strategy.

I'll now pass it over to Gary to talk about our Canadian market.

Thanks, Glenn. Notwithstanding the barrage of negative headline news about the Canadian housing market, all reported statistics point to a stable market. National housing starts are robust to 220,000 units and certainly higher what we or CMHC would have predicted at the beginning of the year. New home prices were up slightly year-over-year, existing home prices have stabilized, and resale inventory is balanced at 52% sales for listing ratio.

While the national housing market appears healthy and should continue to perform well in a historically low interest rate environment, housing is a local business and there are certain submarkets that have gotten ahead of fundamentals are in the process of correcting. The Vancouver single family housing market is one such market. Chinese buying particularly on the West side has tempered and then marketed in many ways is reflecting the cool local summer weather. On the other hand, new condo sales remain strong in certain affordable sub-markets such as Burnaby with appeal to Chinese end users.

We launched a project in the second quarter called the Silver Tower, which is part of our Metrotown portfolio in Tricon XII and we've now at the launch sold 50%, a couple of months later, we now sold 72% of the 284 units in the project. So, this is indicative of the fact that if you have a well-priced and well-designed project, it can still do well in the Vancouver marketplace.

The Toronto condo market is another notable sector that is undergoing a significant slowdown. And what feels like Chinese style housing policy, the Bank of Canada and Federal Government have orchestrated a correction in the condo market through bank tightening, and that's both for construction loans, and consumer end loans, immigration controls, and continuous warnings channel through the media. Although this is not being reported in mainstream media or industry statistics, we suspect new condo prices are down upwards of 10%, as developers are offering a number of incentives to lure an increasingly skeptical investors and end users.

Some are seeing the slow launch market and price reductions related to summer doldrums. Given that the last few summers have been strong, we believe that this is something more, and that we're in the midst of a correction that could easily last into 2013. In some way, this is well good news for Tricon as we are not overexposed to the Toronto condo market, and a correction could lead to better investment opportunities in the future, especially for Tricon XII.

At the current time and assuming interest rates stay low, we believe that the Toronto condo correction will be moderate as completed buildings are fully occupied, and new projects will be delayed thereby keeping supply in check. Also, investor demand should return quickly, when rental economics improve. Sales in 2011 were clearly not sustainable, so a pullback should be considered healthy, and in the industry's best interests over the longer term.

I'm now going to hand it over to Jon to talk about the single family – our single family rental business.

Thank you, Gary. Tricon is currently actively buying homes with four operating partners in five markets, namely the Greater Sacramento Region, the Greater Bay Area, Southern California's Inland Empire, which is Riverside and San Bernardino counties, Phoenix and Southeast Florida, which we consider Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach Counties.

We are also evaluating potential operating partners and select new markets including Greater Los Angeles, Atlanta, Tampa and Orlando. Our portfolio currently consists of over 420 homes, of which approximately 50 are designated as split homes, those which are targeted for renovation and immediate sale at profit of roughly 8% to 10% on all in costs. With the remainder designated as a rental homes, which are renovated and then leased to end users. At the blended portfolio level, the homes that we've acquired are performing as expected. However, it's important to recognize that our purchase of this business as well as the nature of the distressed inventory varies from market to market.

For example, in Phoenix, we are buying newer homes, our average homes was built 2003, which we expected to have high near-term appreciations. And our targeting growth rental yields of 10% to 11%. This is in contact Southeast Florida, where our typical home was built in the 1960s and 1970s, but is generating a growth rental yields of more than 15%. Our other markets called somewhere between these two extremes. We will provide – will share additional market color and in-depth data of portfolio homes in the quarters and years to come.

As expected, we're seeing some strong competitors in this burgeoning industry. However, we have managed to carve a niche ourselves through our hub-and-spoke operating platform and ones-and-twos approach to home buying. In general, we've elected not to bid for the large portfolios [indiscernible] (15:47) are starting to market, for example, the 2,500 home portfolio recently sold by Fannie Mae.

In Feb, we're looking for slow and measured growth through careful evaluation of each home being acquired. While we may look at portfolio acquisitions in the future, they will typically be smaller, regional portfolios where a local operating partner performed extensive due diligence on the assets. As a whole, we are very pleased with the performance thus far and are confident in our ability to successfully deploy the CAD 100 million raised by Tricon through our recent public equity and debt offerings, as well as the debt that we are starting to raise at the partnership level. We continue to see the single-family rental strategy as a growth business for Tricon and are currently working on a variety of capital raising strategies, which will allow us to grow this platform even further.

I'd now like to pass it back to David Berman for his closing remarks.

Thanks, gentlemen. As noted earlier, this has been a record financial quarter for Tricon, driven largely by management fees and investment income from the Cross Creek Ranch separate account. Given that our asset management business is underpinned by sticky management fees, Cross Creek and the impending closing of Tricon XI will provide the company with the stable stream of cash flows for many years to come.

In addition, as Jon discussed, our principal investing business and in particular our U.S. single-family for rent platform is in growth mode, and we are well positioned to become one of the leaders in this burgeoning industry. We believe that we are aligned with the best-in-class operating partners in housing market that offer the best long-term investment opportunities and expect to reap a reward from the strategy over the coming years.

For long time now, Tricon share price has not in my opinion reflected the company's prospect of potential. Although not get back to original issued price, the 30% increase in share price over the past four months validates I believe our investment thesis. Accordingly, it is incumbent upon me to thank those shareholders who stuck by the company as we rolled out our new funds and expansion strategies. Sometimes a little slower than we would have all liked but successfully nonetheless. And as the saying goes, good things do come to people who wait, and we believe that all our shareholders are now started to be rewarded for their patience.

Operator, we are now ready to take questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Stephen Boland from GMP Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning, Steve.

I guess the first question on the single-family business in U.S. I guess, sorry, 10% of the homes that you purchased now you designated as flip, meaning – is that more than you thought would occur? We – I guess, we always thought that the strategy would be kind of a buy, hold, wait for the capital appreciation, is the capital appreciation coming faster than expected?

No, Steve. This is Jonathan. I wouldn't say that's the case. In some of our partnerships in particular in Sacramento and Phoenix, we always saw that there would be opportunities to buy homes typically slightly higher price homes that didn't necessarily pencil for the for-rent strategy but where you could add some improvements in the near-term and then resell them at a profit. Actually, the single-family for-rent business really began for a lot of these guys as a flip business where you buy homes, renovate them and resell them. And we didn't want our operating partner [indiscernible] (19:40) from that strategy to shift slowly to for-rent. So, although the main focus is and is going to continue to be single-family for rent, if we can also buy homes and make a near-term 8% to 10% profit and turn our money three times in a year, therefore generating a return on investment of 20% to 25% annually, we don't want to walk away from that and we are opportunistic in our investments and think that's a good way for us to play in the market as well, but to a much lesser extent.

Okay. And I guess, you're not using – just remind me, one, the leverage is going to start coming in here, more meaningfully, what's the plan there?

Actually we're getting very close to a first draw on a loan that we had with our Sacramento partnership with the 29th Street Capital. That loan is at 5%, that's the 60% loan to cross. And all of our other partners and us are in the process of speaking with banks. We've actually had some very interesting and productive recent conversations with the money center banks in Wall Street, investment bank types, who are all coming into the market. Gary and I were actually in Washington a couple of weeks ago, meeting with government agencies regarding their interest in providing financing to the strategy. So, this loan is at 5% and we believe that over time that will come into the space of lower rate as low as 4%.

Okay. And your plan, I guess, is it still to be 60/40 in terms of leverage or is that beginning to show your outlook there?

No, that's still the same.

Okay. I guess, second question, when I look at the – I guess, there are some concerns, you have in the Canadian market. And you've just done a big raise, is there enough product for you to get this fund up and fully invested over the next 12 months? Because you just seemed more concerned about the Canadian markets than in the past couple of years?

Yes. I mean, we're definitely – well, I mean, let's just say, we have been cautious particularly in Toronto over the last several years. I mean, since 2008, we've only invested in three or four condo projects in Toronto. And prior to that time, we were probably the largest financier for the condo business particularly in downtown. So, we have been cautious for quite some time. I think the difference right now is, we are noticing what I would say the tangible correction. I mean you can feel that the market slow. We know that developers are really dropping prices or using standards to drop the effective price. So, in that kind of environment, it's important to be I think that much more cautious.

But in terms of being able to put the capital on Tricon's wealth, we're not concerned about that at all. We've already made two investments that between two of them are probably going to be CAD 50 million or CAD 60 million. That being the Massey Tower and Metrotown Portfolio, and both of those investments look like they're doing very well. So – and we still have roughly another couple of years in our investment period to put that money out. We're looking at a new opportunity in Vancouver, which is along the lines of affordable, I would describe more suburban condo product, which we believe there is a market today.

We also are looking to increase our waiting in Alberta. Alberta has gone through I think a pretty substantial housing recovery up from – after 2007 and – or since 2007, and that market is now really stabilizing and we're starting to see home prices go up or starting to see inventories come down. So, Alberta is a place if you believe that commodities are going to stay stable and China is going to stay intact, we think Alberta is a good place to be. So, I think we'll see more of a waiting in Tricon XII to Western Canada and we'll continue to be cautious in Toronto, but again – and we'll see how this goes. But at this point in time, I personally don't believe that the Toronto condo correction will be a long correction. And so, we may see opportunities, let's say, within a year if you want to take advantage of.

Okay, that's great. And just one final question on the new U.S. fund, I mean the size is kind of I know it's pretty fluid. I mean, are you still confident to get to CAD 350 million to CAD 450 million, is that still a valid range?

Yeah. That is still our expectation. And as we mentioned we are inching close to the finishing line, but we will get there, probably we should say by the end of the quarter, for sure. And once the first closing takes place, then we can start the broader marketing.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Olin from Vision Capital Corporation. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning and thanks for the good results. Sort of a strategic question and a little different than the sort of fix up and flip on the short-term basis in some of your single-family housing. You mentioned with the recovery of the U.S. home market that some of the – your original strategy is unfolding as anticipated. I guess my question is, at what point do you consider if you see both success in buying and renting and you're getting a nice rental stream and you're seeing substantial capital appreciation. What is your decision metrics holding for the rental stream or selling in a profit? And this isn't the short-term quick and sort of fix up and flip homes but the more core rental ones?

No. I think – hi, Jeff, it's Gary. I think at this point in time, our expectation in the single-family for rent platform is to hold. Notwithstanding Jon's comments that a small percentage of portfolio is really designated flip, we're really looking for a longer term hold. And I would say today that whole period is going to be probably roughly three years. That might change, it could be two years, it could be five years, but we really believe we're just at the very beginning of the U.S. housing recovery. There's been a lots of positive news, there's a lots of things to get excited about, but we still have a long way to go, in terms of all the metrics, in terms of housing starts, sales, home prices, we still have a long way to go.

So, we think this year, we could see home prices appreciate, let's say, 5% and it might be even higher in some of our markets. We think and a lot of the analysts believe that we could see home prices continue to appreciate by about 5% for the next several years. And if that's the case, we're going to be in a better – we should hold. We continue to get good rental income. We might even see rent inflation, so we should hold and take advantage of that home price appreciation. And when get to a point where the home prices appreciation stabilizes, I think that might be a more opportune time to start talking about an exit. But I think it's far too premature to discuss that.

No, I appreciate. It's premature. But I'm just trying to get a sense for example, if you saw a 25% appreciation in home prices over the next six to 12 months, would you sell versus continue to flip coupons?

We would be tempted at that stage, but again as what Gary has been saying, we would really evaluate the markets and see where we think it's going because it's a debt phase. We still believe that's completely undervalued, then it wouldn't make – yes, you would be...

Got it.

...tempted that it would make more sales to hold and benefit for the longer term.

Thanks very much.

We currently have no questions coming through. [Operator Instructions] We have no further questions. So, I now hand you back to your host to conclude today's conference.

Thanks, Ann. In concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in November when we discuss our results for Q3 2012. Thank you.

Thank you for joining today's conference. You may now replace your handsets. Thank you.