Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Managing Director-Capital Markets, Tricon Residential, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Residential, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Tricon Residential, Inc.
Kevin Baldridge — Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Residential, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Executive Vice President & Chief Investment Officer, Tricon Residential, Inc.
Chandni Luthra — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Nicholas Joseph — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Mario Saric — Analyst, Scotiabank
Brad Heffern — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Adam Kramer — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets Corp. (Canada)
Jade Rahmani — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Tal Woolley — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Rob, and l will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Residential Fourth Quarter 2022 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Wojtek Nowak, Managing Director, Capital Markets, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's fourth quarter results for the 3 and 12 months ended December 31, 2022, which were shared in the news release distributed yesterday.

I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information. This information is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to our most recent Management's Discussion and Analysis and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR, EDGAR and our company website, as well as a supplementary package on our website. Our remarks also include references to non-GAAP financial measures, which are explained and reconciled in our MD&A

I would also like to remind everyone that all figures are being quoted in US dollars, unless otherwise stated. Please note that this call is available by webcast on our website and a replay will be accessible there following the call.

Lastly, please note that during this call we will be referring to a slide presentation that you can follow by joining our webcast or you can access directly through our website. You can find both the webcast, registration and the presentation in the Investors section of triconresidential.com under News & Events.

With that, I will turn the call over to Gary Berman, President and CEO of Tricon.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. 2022 marked another record-breaking year for Tricon as we adapted to a difficult macro environment to deliver on our business plan, implement bold strategic initiatives and go above and beyond for our residents. We owe our exceptional performance to our world-class team and their unwavering commitment to our residents and the communities we serve. As a people-first organization, our goal has always been to prioritize our employees, so they in turn can provide our residents with inspired customer service. We know that when our residents are fulfilled, they rent with us longer, treat our properties like their own and refer other customers.

On slide 2, I wanted to highlight that I've taken time in my 2022 annual letter to shareholders to explain how this virtuous philosophy of doing business leads to strong operations and ultimately good financial results. The letter also provides some interesting insight into [ph] Project Journey (00:02:53) or the sale of our US multi-family business; our learnings from managing both US multi-family and single-family rental property operations; the benefits of having one foot in the public market and one foot in the private market; how we can use technology to make our business more efficient and improve the customer experience; and our belief that a kinder form of capitalism is the best approach for managing rental housing over the long term. It makes for some decent bedtime reading. I hope you have time to review it when it's released later this week.

Let's turn to slide 3, so I can share with you our key takeaways for today's call. First, we delivered another rock solid operational quarter with single-family rental, same-home NOI growth of 9.7%, a record high NOI margin of 69.8%, near record occupancy of 98%, record low turnover at 12.2% and consistently strong blended rent growth of 7.4%.

Second, we remain disciplined on acquisitions and grow our portfolio by selectively acquiring 815 homes during the quarter. Although we are starting to slow acquisitions into 2023, we remain committed to growing our business over the long term in a strategic and responsible way. At this time, that means slowing the pace of our acquisitions until it makes sense to accelerate once more.

Third, we are focused on cost containment during this near-term period of slower growth by driving cost savings within corporate overhead and property operating expenses. At the same time, we are encouraged by green shoots, emerging in the debt market. As dislocation in the securitization market fades and pricing improves, we may be able to accelerate great growth later this year.

And finally, when market conditions do improve, we are well positioned to grow with nearly $3 billion of available capital, including liquidity on our own balance sheet and third-party unfunded equity commitments. What I love about our model is that we can scale our acquisition program up or down very quickly, depending on market conditions. And we will lean in and deploy that capital responsibly and when the time is right.

On slide 4, we reflect on the past year and our first foray into setting guidance. We are proud to report that we delivered on what we promised and largely exceeded our initial financial targets. By all accounts, 2022 was a fantastic year for Tricon with core FFO per share of $0.76 and same-home NOI growth of 10.4%, both well above the high end of our initial guidance.

In a period of capital market uncertainty and lower transaction volume, we are fortunate to sell the remaining interest in our US multi-family portfolio, generating $319 million of gross proceeds to Tricon and simplifying our business in the process. We also acquired a record of more than 7,200 homes, largely one at a time, expanding our portfolio by over 23%. If our cost of capital hadn't deteriorated in the second half of 2022, this number would have been even higher. And we recently commenced lease-up on our second Canadian multi-family property, The Taylor, which is tracking months ahead of schedule with over 41% of units leased at an average monthly rent of CAD 4.42 per square foot as of December 31, 2022.

Last but not least, we continue to prioritize the well-being of our residents by introducing an industry-leading Bill of Rights, the first of its kind for US single-family rental, outlining our commitment to providing quality, move-in ready homes with caring and reliable service. We also launched our flagship Tricon Vantage Program, a suite of programs and resources available to our US single-family residents to help them realize their financial goals, including the goal of homeownership, if they so choose.

As you can see on slide 5, this year's accomplishments have added to a long track record of creating value for shareholders. Through our consistently strong operations and active acquisition program, we've grown our proportionate NOI and book value per share at a compounded annual rate of 17% and 18%, respectively. It's clear that real cash flow is driving and underpinning our book value and we think that a serious disconnect exists between our depressed stock price and the fundamental value of our underlying real estate and operation. We know that the markets can be inefficient in the short term but over time, this value will surface and be realized for our shareholders.

Let's take a look at the current state of our business fundamentals in slide 6. The demand for our rental homes continues to be very strong with leads per available home well above pre-pandemic levels. At the same time, there is evidence of higher rental supply in our markets, partly caused by would-be home sellers opting to rent out their homes, given the challenging mortgage environment and having attractive legacy mortgages locked in place at very low rates. Taken together, the combination of strong demand but higher supply of rental listings over recent months has contributed to a moderation of rent growth on new move-ins, although rent growth in our same-home portfolio remains strong by historical measures and has shown signs of strengthening into 2023.

We believe we have a long runway to capture industry high releasing spreads, given the 15% embedded loss-to-lease in our portfolio, which we've accumulated by self-governing on renewals over the past few years. And so, we feel good about our revenue trends for the year ahead and believe we can grow same-home revenues by 6% to 7.5% in 2023.

As we turn our attention to expenses on slide 7, we remain focused on cost control, especially during this period of slower acquisitions. We see opportunities on two fronts. One is leveraging our existing corporate overhead platform, which we've expanded over time to be able to handle a much larger number of homes. This means being very prudent with hiring and G&A costs while earning incremental property management fees as we grow and complete the investment program for our JV partners. With this, we expect to save $0.03 of core FFO per share in corporate overhead expenses this year compared to last.

The second opportunity is to capture efficiencies of scale in our SFR portfolio by bringing more work orders in-house, leveraging our national procurement programming and using technology to become more efficient, which should help us continue the same-home expense growth in the range of 6% to 7.5% this year.

Turning to external growth on slide 8, let's talk about what the opportunity set looks like for acquisitions. Within our target markets, home prices that meet our buy box criteria have declined by over 8% from midyear 2022 peak, while rents are down about 5% and stabilizing into January. This is resulting in a slight expansion of acquisition cap rates. At the same time, MLS transaction volume is down materially, which is largely related to the lock-in effect caused by existing homeowners not wanting to trade out of their low mortgage rates. This makes it more difficult for us to acquire a meaningful number of homes that meet our cap rate criteria, which is currently in the 5.5% to 6% range, albeit with a preference for cap rates closer to 6%.

As you can see on slide 9, staying disciplined with this criteria means that we also need to bid for homes at a meaningful discount to the asking price to make the math work. Consequently, we end up buying fewer homes today than in the past, often losing out to individual homebuyers who do not buy homes with a cap rate in mind. That being said, if we were to shift our criteria to lower target cap rates, let's say, 5.25% to 5.75%, we could buy a lot more homes.

And so you might be asking, what's the magic behind a 5.5% to 6% cap rate? If we step back for a moment, our general strategy is to acquire homes at cap rates that are equal to or greater than our cost of debt financing in order to generate potential low-teen gross IRRs in our JVs and potentially higher IRRs for Tricon when we factor in the fees we earn. So it's really the cost of available debt financing that dictates our acquisition parameters.

With that, I'll turn it over to Wissam to talk about where the debt markets are today.

Thank you, Gary. Good morning, everyone. The main takeaway of acquisitions is that as financing rates decrease, we can lower our target cap rates and go back to buying more homes. So let's turn to slide 10 and see how this is evolving. The debt markets were, essentially, closed for business from August to January. And then as we moved into February, we were encouraged to see some green shoots with one of our peers completing a transaction at a yield of 5.74%.

As Gary mentioned, we generally aim to acquire homes at cap rates that are equal to or greater than our cost of debt financing in order to meet our target returns. We also had a good sense of the depth of the market at various cap rates. And so if we assume both debt financing and cap rates of 5.75%, we should be able to buy between 800 and 1,200 homes a quarter like we did in Q4.

In order to go back to higher acquisition volumes, we would need one of two things: either see the financing costs revert to 5.25% to 5.5% or we would look towards financing at lower loan to values where the debt costs are cheaper. This is a real possibility and it's something we are discussing with our joint venture partners. Either way, we are optimistic that slightly lower financing costs will allow us to accelerate acquisitions later this year.

Let's turn to slide 11 to review our key financial metrics for both – for the fourth quarter. Net income from continuing operations was $56 million compared to $110 million last year, which includes $56 million of fair value gains on rental properties against a very strong comp at $262 million last year as home price appreciation has moderated since.

Core FFO per share was $0.31, an increase of 107% year over year. AFFO per share was $0.28, up 133% year over year, providing us with ample cushion to support our quarterly dividend within AFFO payout ratio of 18%. Both core FFO and AFFO per share benefited from net performance fees earned on the sale of the US multi-family portfolio this quarter, which amounted to $0.16 per share.

Lastly, our IFRS book value stands at $13.89. That's CAD 18.83 in Canadian dollars, up almost 24% year over year. I will also note that our book value does not factor in the value of our private funds and advisory fee streams.

Let's move to slide 12 and talk about the drivers of core FFO per share. Our single-family rental portfolio delivered 24% year-over-year growth in Tricon's proportionate NOI. This was driven by an 8.9% increase in proportionate rental home count and 9.7$ increase in the same-home NOI.

FFO from fees increased materially due to the $100 million of performance fees received upon the sale of the US multi-family portfolio. In our adjacent residential businesses, the year-over-year decrease of 63% in FFO reflected the sale of the US multi-family portfolio and lower results in some US residential development as market conditions have normalized versus a very strong comp in prior year.

On the corporate side, interest expense was up, as we have a higher debt balance to support the growth of our single-family rental portfolio along with higher average interest rates. Meanwhile, corporate overhead expenses increased from last year due to the $50 million of performance fee-related LTIP and performance fee expense associated with the sale of the US multi-family portfolio. If we're to exclude these expenses, overhead cost is actually down year over year by $2 million as we continue to focus on cost containment in this tougher operating environment. Lastly, the diluted share count this quarter was 2% higher than last year from the residual impact of the US IPO, capital-raising initiatives in the prior year.

Now let's turn to our proportionate debt profile on slide 13. Our near-term debt maturities consists of two subscription lines used to fund acquisitions, as well as a bank term loan, which we will extend later on this year. In terms of leverage, we ended the quarter at 7.2 times net debt to adjusted EBITDA, which is below our near-term target of 8 to 9 times and excludes the impact of our performance fees earned in the quarter. Our floating-rate debt exposure notched down to 29% of total debt compared to 31% last quarter. As a reminder, we used floating-rate warehouse lines to fund acquisitions in the short term. This is not a permanent part of our capital structure and is an exposure that we actively seek to term out and roll into fixed-rate instruments when we have a large enough pools of homes to do so.

I'll also like to highlight that more than 73% of the floating-rate debt is subject to caps which are explained on slide 14. While rising interest rates had been a headwind in 2022, our interest rate caps have also recently started to kick in and we should – help mitigate some of the impact of rising rates in 2023.

And now, to give more insight into our same-home metrics, I'll turn the call over to our very own David Hasselhoff, our Chief Operating Officer, Kevin Baldridge.

Thank you very much, Wissam, and good morning, everyone. I want to start out by giving a big shout out to our amazing frontline operations team for their hard work and tremendous commitment to enriching the lives of our residents this past year. I'm incredibly proud for the operating metrics we've been able to achieve while remaining true to our values of taking care of each other, our residents and our communities.

Let's move to slide 15 to talk about the drivers of our same-home NOI growth of 9.7% for the quarter. On the top line, revenue growth was driven by a 7.7% increase in average in-place rents and a 20-basis-point gain in occupancy. Blended rent growth increased by 7.4% during the quarter, supported by 11.5% growth on new move-ins and 6.8% on renewals. Our renewal spreads reflect our policy in self-governing, which typically maintains rent growth below market levels for existing residents, which in turn helps keep our turnover low.

Over time, the loss-to-lease of about 15% that we have built up in our portfolio has allowed renewals to pick up while still offering our residents below market rents, which is a win-win in our books. And as we moved into the new year, I'm pleased to report solid demand trends continuing with 13.9% new lease growth and 7.3% blended rent growth in January.

Our bad debt expense, which is embedded in the revenue numbers has been tracking around 1.3% compared to 1.8% in the prior year. And we aim to move it down to pre-pandemic levels of 1% or lower by the end of this year. It's hard work and we rely on the tremendous efforts of our collections teams to ensure collections are on time while being compassionate to our residents' individual situations and working with them towards an agreeable solution.

Other revenue decreased by 18% from last year. This was partly driven by improved collections, which helped to reduce our bad debt but also results in lower late fee revenue. As well, our record low turnover is resulting in lower ancillary revenue for things like early lease termination fees and resident recoveries on turns. However, over time, we do see a path of increasing other revenue as we continue to roll out value-added programs such as smart home technology and renters insurance, which are embedded in these numbers and increased by almost 20% year on year.

Let's now turn to slide 16 to discuss our same-home expense growth of 0.8%. The slight rise in expenses was mainly driven by property taxes, which were up 10.7% from last year, reflecting meaningful home price appreciation in our markets. We were a touch conservative on our tax accruals during the year and had trued up in Q4 based on final tax assessments, which resulted in a 13.4% increase for the full year.

On the other hand, repairs and maintenance expenses were down this quarter by 11.6%. Although the portfolio experienced higher volume of work orders as well as cost inflation post-pandemic, we were able to offset this in part by completing 75% of our work orders in-house or 6% more year over year, which in turn saves about $400 per job.

Turnover expense was also down significantly as our turnover rate decreased by over 310 basis points to a record low of 12.2%, thanks to our occupancy bias and focus on superior customer service in what is already a seasonally slow period for move-outs. Because of our longer resident tenure and people generally spending more time in their homes during the pandemic, we had more extensive turns such that a greater proportion of turn costs ended up being capitalized. You can see the table on the right that our same-home cost to maintain, which includes expensed and capitalized activities, rose by 14% for the full year.

Next, on property management expenses, we're seeing inflationary pressures and labor costs offsetting some of the efficiencies of scale that we've achieved as our portfolio has grown. And finally, homeowners associations costs increased as there was a year-end true-up of HOA bills. But we also are seeing a heightened level of restrictions imposed by HOAs coming out of the pandemic, which drove higher HOA fees.

In this higher interest rate environment, our focus remains on containing the expenses that we can control. This includes leveraging our national procurement program, driving efficiencies through technology and making operational improvements wherever we see the opportunity, all the while creating the best resident experience possible.

Let's turn to slide 17 to dig deeper into more recent leasing trends and give you some insight into how we manage revenues. Demand trends were solid in Q4 but you can see the slight moderation in new lease rent growth as we took an occupancy bias to lease up homes in the seasonally weaker holiday period. As we rolled into January, we shifted back towards a rent growth bias, keeping homes on the market a bit longer to achieve our target rents with a minor loss of occupancy. This way, we can effectively capture our loss-to-lease on new leases while continuing to self-govern on renewals for existing residents. We expect these rental trends to persist as we anticipate a relatively strong leasing season into the spring.

Now, I'll turn the call back to Wissam Francis to introduce our 2023 guidance.

Thank you, Kevin. Moving on to slide 18, I am pleased to introduce our 2023 guidance, which brings together many of the themes and messages we've discussed on today's call. Core FFO per share is expected to be between $0.54 and $0.59 in 2023. Compared to last year, we leased about $0.16 from the net performance fees from the US multi-family transaction and another $0.04 related to the recurring fees in FFO from this US multi-family portfolio, net of overhead savings, bringing the total impact to $0.20. This creates a baseline for FFO of [ph] $0.56 (00:23:27) as a starting point.

We expect NOI growth to contribute $0.13, which is being largely offset by higher interest expense of $0.12. Roughly half of this is already baked into our Q4 run rate and the remaining half comes from incremental debt to fund acquisitions. Hence, the impact of NOI less interest is $0.01 to the positive getting us from $0.56 baseline to $0.57 guidance midpoint.

Aside from this, we expect $0.03 of overhead cost savings at the corporate level, offset by $0.03 of income tax variances and lower acquisition fees. Note that the income tax was a recovery in 2022 and we expect a minor tax expense in 2023. Getting to the high end of guidance from the midpoint is largely driven by the higher end of same-home NOI guidance and the higher end of acquisition guidance, which drives acquisition fees.

Our same-home metrics are expected to moderate from 2022 levels but will still remain very robust. Same-home revenue growth of 6% to 7.5% assumes rent growth on new leases in the 9% to 11% range and rent growth on renewals near current levels of 6% to 7% as we continue to self-govern on renewals. We also assume occupancy near 97% and turnover nudging up towards 20%.

Same-home expense growth of 6% to 7.5% assumes property tax is increasing around 8% and controllable expenses inflating at mid-single digits. We should see less of a benefit from the turnover costs being capitalized versus expense as we lap the heavier post-pandemic turns and we expect turnover expense to be fairly flat. Taken together, this leads us to same-home NOI guidance of 6% to 7.5% with stable margins around 68% to 69%.

On the acquisition front, we are planning for 2,000 to 4,000 acquisitions this year, including only 400 acquisitions or so in the seasonally low Q1 period and potentially accelerating into the summer. The low end of our guidance simply assumes seasonal strength in MLS listings into the summer but no real change in the acquisition environment. The higher end of the guidance assumes a more significant acceleration of acquisitions in the second half of the year, assuming favorable cap rates and available financing rates both around 5.5% to 5.75%.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary for final remarks.

Thank you, Wissam. As we look ahead to another exciting year, we want to emphasize the following messages on slide 19. First, the value of our company is underpinned by our SFR portfolio, which continues to perform extremely well and is reflected in a book value per share that is well above our share price. Next, we believe in responsible growth. We are prudent in our capital allocation, disciplined with our cap rate criteria and laser-focused on cost containment during this period of slower growth. And finally, we have the platform, people, technology and available capital to grow much faster when the time is right.

I will now pass the call back to the operator to take questions. Wissam, Kevin and I will also be joined by Jon Ellenzweig, Andy Carmody and Andrew Joyner to answer any questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Chandni Luthra from Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. Thank you for taking my question. So third quarter, you talked about seeing a shift from OpEx to CapEx because more costs were getting capitalized. Now, obviously, you gave some color on it that a lot of work orders are being done in-house this year or rather more recently. But could you help us understand what happened in fourth quarter? Why is it that the total cost to maintain homes was lower? Why was CapEx lower? And how should we think about CapEx going into 2023?

Kevin, I'm going to turn that over to you.

Sure. Yeah, thank you. Thanks for the question. Yeah, we have spent the last six to nine months really focused on cost containment. Our teams out in the field and across the country and we've done a number of things. We've really tightened our scopes such that we're able to rein in what the costs are on all the terms or whether – we've done things like where before we might paint ceilings, for instance, on a turn when we didn't really need to, so we've tightened that up. Or we pride ourselves in providing really good service and homes to our residents and sometimes we had a little bit of scope creep, like an HVAC maintenance guy would want to add zones to a house on the HVAC. We think that that's a little bit overboard, so we've cut that back.

So we've turned a number, we've really tightened our scopes. We're also doing more even turns when using in-house people, now that we're not buying quite as much. We've repurposed some of our maintenance teams to help do in-house turns, as well as we've increased the number of work orders that we do in-house. We're now doing 75% of work orders in-house and we've found that when we do work orders ourselves, we're saving about $400 a job, would cost us about [ph] $150 (00:29:28) a work order. We do it in-house versus $500 to $600 a work order if we [ph] bend (00:29:34) it out, so that's lowered our costs as well. And then we've also negotiated prices down. We have a price book that we use across the country and we've negotiated 670 line items down that we – all of our maintenance techs and supervisors have.

So between bringing down prices and doing more work orders in-house, really looking at the scopes, we've been able to drop our costs. Our cash cost to turn a home dropped from like $5,200 in September to $3,800 in February. That's a 27% decrease in the cash cost to turn a home. And we've also dropped just the maintenance expenses, our cost to maintain homes by doing work orders by about just under 7%, 6.7%. And we hope to bring that down further the rest of the year. So while there's some inflationary pressures out there, mainly with our vendors on labor, we've been able to bring cost ourselves just by being – by scrutinizing more, we're doing on scope within our costs.

That's helpful.

And, Chandni, the only thing I would add to that is that it's important to look at everything over a longer period of time. There could be noise in a quarter. It's always better to look at the full year. If you look at the full-year cost to maintain, which includes both expensed and capitalized items, that was up 14% in the same-home portfolio. We think in 2023 that same cost to maintain number will be up about 7%. So still in an inflationary environment but we are seeing moderation. And part of that is because of the scope improvements and cost containment that Kevin talked about.

That's very helpful. Thank you. And for my follow up, could you guys talk about what sort of conversations are you having with your JV partners as you think about accelerating purchasing homes later in the summer. You gave some thoughts around bringing down the loan to value but could you give us an update on where price to FFO multiples are at the moment for homes that you did acquire in the fourth quarter and where that could potentially go, where it becomes feasible for you again?

Well, so what we need to do in order to get to the next fundraise, we, essentially, need to get to roughly the midpoint. So if we can buy roughly 3,000 homes and the breakdown of that would be, 80% JV-2, 20% Homebuilder Direct. We're – we'll be at a point where the existing venture – single-family rental ventures will be fully committed and that allows us to then go and raise a follow-on fund.

We've started to have those conversations with our JV partners. I could tell you they are very confident, I think, in the overall strategy, in our performance and they feel bullish about the future for single-family rental. And so, we are going to start fundraising imminently and hoping that if we can – if we can, again, hit the midpoint, we'll be in a position to launch, let's say, JV-3 later this year – at the end of the year or maybe early into 2024. But the hope would be at the end of the year and that's really our goal. We think it's very much viable. All of our existing major investors have indicated that they would like to re-up and they'd like to put more money to work. And I think they've gotten around – I mean, obviously, there's a lot of dislocation in the equity capital markets but there's a couple of things happening.

One is, in the debt capital markets, that dislocations going away. I would say, it's probably halfway back now. So that's an improvement. We talked about green shoots and we had our representatives at the securitization ABS conference in Vegas last couple of days and very positive response from buyers of CMBS. So it feels like that's opening back up, which is helpful.

But, then, also the JV partners are starting to say, look, we're somewhat agnostic to debt. So the way they think about it is if you can buy homes at a 5.5% cap rate and then get NOI growth at 4% in perpetuity, that's a 9.5% return and they're happy with that. They'll take that all day long. We, obviously, would do better than that because we get the impact of the fees. And from that point forward, it's only a decision of how much more incremental leverage you want to put on to make – to improve the returns a little bit more.

So that's a big difference right now, I would say, between private capital markets and public capital markets, which are in a state of angst, I would say, about what the cost of capital is. Private capital markets are looking through that.

Thank you so much.

Our next question comes from the line of Nick Joseph from Citi. Your line is open.

Thank you. Appreciate all the comments on the buildup to same-store guidance for this year. Just wondering why 6% to 7% is still the right renewal cap, just given the broad macro environment today?

Well, I mean, there's always an art into thinking about how to set a renewal cap. The key thing for us is always try to set rents below – slightly below market so that we benefit our residents and they don't have anxiety about whether they have to move out or whether they can afford the home. So that's incredibly important to us. And we've shown, over time that that actually leads to great results, not just for our residents but also our shareholders and investors as well.

So it's a bit of an art, Nick, but I would say that if we kind of think about where we're seeing wage growth, we're seeing not moderate, probably from about 8%, I would say, with our frontline workers now down to maybe 5%or 6%. And as a result, we think that kind of 6% to 7%, especially given the loss-to-lease in the portfolio makes sense.

Thanks. That's helpful. And then just on capital allocation. I know it was pretty minimal in the quarter in terms of the buybacks. But how are you thinking about those going forward, given current valuation and the sources, uses of capital in 2023?

Yeah. I mean – so we got a buyback in place. We, currently, bought about 1.5 million shares. We'll probably fulfill the existing buyback, which is 2.5 million. But then after that, we're probably inclined to really reserve our capital for future opportunities and growth. We don't think that the right thing to do right now is to return capital to shareholders in the way of higher dividends or to buy back our stock. We're a smaller company. We have a great future. We have commitments in our JVs and we would not want to rob those opportunities and future growth by buying back our stock in spades. So that's the way we're thinking about it.

Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Mario Saric from Scotiabank. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning. Just two quick ones on the guidance and then one on the acquisitions. In terms of – so I appreciate the color and the commentary you provided comparing the cap rate to the debt cost and how that drives capital allocation going forward. So is it fair to say within the guidance as it stands today – like you expected refi rate or debt cost rate in 2023 is kind of in the 5.5% – sorry, 5.75%, 6% range, which you listed on slide 10?

Hey, Mario. Yes, that's the expectation is – given what's happening in the capital markets and the debt financing rates today. We expect to refinance between 5.75% and 6%, obviously, would hope to do better but that's what where we're guiding towards.

Okay. And then within the same-store revenue growth of 5% to 9%, you talk about the cap on renewals, 6% to 7%. What type of turnover are you thinking about at the midpoint?

Yeah, we're assuming occupancy of 97% from actually low to high in the guidance and turnover of 20%. So we're holding that constant. So we're assuming that the turnover edge is up. It was, obviously, extremely low in Q4 but 15% for the year in 2022. So we're assuming that moves up to 20% and, obviously, it's accretive for us to have more turnover. It's not what we're trying to achieve but that's essentially what we're modeling.

Got it. Okay. My last question, just in terms of the book value per share and, Gary, your comment on in the extreme disconnect between the trading price and the $14. What's the implied SFR cap rate using your 2023 expected same-store NOI that you're reflecting the $14?

Yeah. I would say, I think – well, it depends how you measure it. I think if you're using in-place, you're probably at a very high 4%, close to 5%. If you're using 2023, you're probably in the low 5s. And I think that that makes a lot of sense to us. And I think, again, that that valuation is certainly underpinned by what we're seeing in the market.

If we wanted to go out and buy 2,000 homes a quarter today, you'd be looking at 5.25% cap rate, right? That's one home at a time. And we think – this type of business, once you've accumulated portfolio and those homes are stabilized, deserves a premium. There's been a couple of transactions in the market. Those looked like they're trading based on high 4%, low 5% in-place cap rates. Obviously, it'd be higher in a mark-to-market.

And remember, we have a significant loss-to-lease in our portfolio, Mario, the lease is 15%, so that has to be taken into account. And the only other data point I would give you is that we sold nearly 300 homes in 2022. We're planning to sell about 400 homes to a bit of capital recycling in 2023. We've got almost half of those already under contract and those prices are all about 10% above our fair value, 10% above our fair value. So the market is nowhere close to not only our book value but where homes are actually trading in the market.

Got it. Yeah. So the counter to the comment that you're buying at 5.5% to 6% caps and you're using, let's say, a low 5% cap, just based on 2023 expected NOI is really the 15% embedded mark-to-market in the portfolio at the end of the day.

Correct, correct. And it's probably a little higher than that but, yeah, we're using 15%.

Got it. Okay. Thanks, Gary.

Your next question comes from the line of Brad Heffern from RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. Wissam, I was wondering if you could just talk through the funding plan for 2023? Presumably, there's no equity but expected cash flow, dispositions and debt would be great.

Yeah, no problem. There certainly is no equity at our current share price. So if I look at what we need for growth – for going forward for 2023, based on the guidance that we provided of buying 2,000 to 4,000 homes, assuming 60% LTV is pretty standard numbers, you're looking at commitments for SFR between $80 million to $160 million on a full-year basis.

On top of that, adjacent businesses probably need about $50 million of funding and CapEx, probably another $40 million of funding. So, in total, our cash flows and our need going forward is probably about $170 million to $250 million, depending on what side of the guidance you're on. Now, where do we get that from? We get that from three different sources.

Source number one is our FFO less our dividends on a run rate basis is around – generates around $60 million of cash for us. Source number two is – as Gary mentioned, we're looking to, probably, sell around 400 homes in 2023. That's probably going to – gross proceeds of about $100 million. And let's not forget that we have $207 million of cash on our balance sheet today and another $500 million of liquidity on our credit facility. So add it all together, we're in pretty good position to take advantage of opportunities as they come up going forward.

Okay. Appreciate that. And then your comments on supply, about kind of mom-and-pops renting out their existing homes because of the low locked-in mortgages, I'm curious, how much do you see that as, really, competing supply for you guys? And then how much do you think supply is being driven by build to rent and things that are more institutional.

Kevin, do you want to start with that and maybe I'll chime in after?

Sure. We have seen supply come up for the obvious reasons that a lot of people can't sell their homes. But supply is still not what it was pre-pandemic. It's clearly higher than it was during the pandemic. But not – it's not higher than, say, 2019, 2018 [indiscernible] (00:42:24) really well. So I don't really feel – our portfolio, while it's out there, it's not a big driver. I mean, a lot of the – all the mom-and-pops, I mean, they don't have the websites that we do, they don't have the maintenance teams that we do. They can't advertise as much.

And so, it's not – it hasn't been really a big impact for us. And I think that some of the people that if they're – if they didn't sell their home and they're renting it out, they had to go move somewhere. So they took some – another home off the market or some of the homes that they are now running would have been bought by other small investors or people like ourselves and would have come on the market anyway. So I think there's a little bit too much emphasis being placed on the supply. I have not found it to be a problem from the mom-and-pops.

And then I would just add to that, with all the talk for build to rent and obviously we think it's important long term, it's certainly a solution to add supply. We've got a very significant program. But with all the talk of it, it's a tiny part of overall supply. Like, if you look at total starts, build to rent maybe is 3% or 4%, right? So it's not really having any impact on the broader market. And we're in an environment now because it's become – obviously, with really high rates and construction costs still staying fairly high, it's very difficult to add supply, right? So it's not just that Kevin talked about his commentary on supply for mom-and-pops. In terms of new home supply, that's probably down 15% year over year. And obviously, going into 2023, it's going to be very difficult for the builders, whether it's for sale or build to rent to add more supply.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Adam Kramer from Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hey, guys. Thanks for the question. I just want to ask about the January new lease growth, kind of nice acceleration there. I'm just wondering, maybe kind of what drove that? Look, I'm sure there's some kind of normal seasonal patterns that maybe help drive that. But just wondering what drove that and then maybe kind of any disclosure you can give on February new lease I think would be helpful as well.

All right. Kevin, over to you.

Sure. Yeah. Usually, what we have found – what I found is that there's a lull that happens from Thanksgiving to Christmas. And the year turns and there's a little bit of pent-up supply that occurs. We also became more rent – have a rent bias. We felt that – so we started pushing rents harder than we have been. So it's a combination of the two. We went into Q4 and we started doing seasonality for the first time in two years. And so we really went more towards an occupancy bias.

And if you remember at the time, there was talk about recession. How deep is the recession going to be? Interest rates were – had climbed. And so we went to an occupancy bias and got to 98% and let rent strip down a little bit. We turned the year and we felt in January that push in people coming back into the market. So we – And we took advantage of that. We let our occupancy drift down a bit to get our rents and to be able to harvest our loss-to-lease.

Going into the quarter, I would say for Q1, we're going to be probably around 12% for the quarter in new lease rent growth and mid-7s for blended. Again, that's the beginning of the year, you get this pent-up demand. You know, 12% new let – new lease rent growth is still phenomenal in my book. So hopefully, that gives you some guidance.

Yeah. And I think – and, Adam, just to add to that, that compares to our guidance. The midpoint of our guidance is 6.5% in renewals and 9.5% on new leases, right? So 7% blended rent growth with 20% turnover. So already, what we're seeing out of the gate is we're headed at this slow part of the season. So that's really good news.

That's really helpful, guys. Thanks so much for kind of that color. Look, just maybe switching gears, same-store expense growth, 6% to 7.5%, I believe. Just wondering if you could kind of provide any – maybe incremental details, right, whether it's kind of property tax expense, specifically. How much you're kind of budgeting for that – for growth for that versus maybe kind of everything else, the bucket of everything else?

Yeah. So, I mean, the way we think about it is expenses are roughly divided half between what we say are non-controllable, so that would be property tax and insurance. And then the other half is controllable. And so what we think is on the non-controllable property tax and insurance, that's going to be up high single digits. We think our property tax is going to be up roughly 8%. On the same-home insurance, probably up about 10%, which is pretty good, I mean compared to what we're seeing in the industry and certainly a moderation from 2022. And then on the controllables, we're thinking mid-single digits, right? So that gets you to kind of that 6% to 7.5%. We feel pretty confident about that today.

Great. Thanks again for the time, guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen MacLeod from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Hi, Steve.

Lots of great color, so thank you. Just wanted to ask about one thing with respect to the acquisition plan for 2023. You talked a little bit about, potentially, being able to adjust the loan to value in order to accelerate on the SFR acquisition side. I guess two questions on that. What sort of factors do you take into account as you think about adjusting the loan to value? And then secondly, are there any other levers that you can pull just outside of the spreads to drive, potentially, higher acquisitions?

Well, we're governed right now by the existing joint ventures, right? Again, single-family around JV-2 and Homebuilder Direct and both of those have leverage requirements. So we are governed by those requirements for typically around 60%. So that does put a bit of a limiter, because if we got rid of that leverage, we could go way faster.

So again, I think when I made my comments about our JV partners being open or being agnostic to leverage and potentially considering a vehicle in the future that has lower leverage, that's on future vehicles. It's not on the existing vehicles. So those existing vehicles need to be about 60% and that's really what's kind of holding us back a little bit. It's because at 60%, the cost to leverage is in that kind of high 5% range, which is what Wissam talked about.

So, that's why it's probably going to be a slower year. We're planning 400 acquisitions in Q1 and we probably move that – let's say if we wanted to go to midpoint, we could assume that's 400 Q1, 1,000 Q2, 1,000 Q3, 600 – I'm just giving you an idea of what that could look like. And to the extent, obviously, that we get lower rates or lower spreads, we're able to go faster.

Great. Okay. Thanks, Gary. That's helpful. That's all I have. Thank you.

Okay.

Your next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW. Your line is open.

Thank you very much. With the spike in rates, that may call into question some of the green shoots that you are seeing in the [ph] CLO (00:50:13) market. I realize spreads might be coming in but I am concerned about spiking fixed income volatility here. But the backdrop raises a broader question, which is with acquisition cap rates right on top of debt cost, what's really the value of leverage in your views? Is it to really just gain scale in markets where there is an opportunity? Have you rethought that? Because I think it could make sense to operate with much lower leverage than historically until the debt markets become more amenable.

Yeah. So I'm going to answer a little bit of that and then I'm going to allow Jon to – we're going to give Jon a chance to talk about how we think about leverage in the context of kind of longer-term returns and why we use leverage. There's, clearly, a benefit to getting scale from an operations perspective because it allows us, essentially, to go, let's say, twice as fast or more. So there is definitely benefit there. And then there's, obviously, more fee income associated with that as well. But we will give you some insight into how our JV partners think and how they think about kind of longer-term IRRs and I'll turn that over to Jon.

I would just say on the – yeah, I mean, look, the debt markets are whipsawing. We're seeing – like, I mean, the way they're oscillating from day to day, week to week is really crazy. And so, we understand it's an incredibly volatile environment. And we know that the benchmark rates have blown out in the last couple of weeks and again into today. But we are seeing green shoots in terms of the CMBS or ABS market, right?

So we just met with 30 investors over the last couple of days and they told us that they're interested again in – and what they really want and certainly from an A Tranche, bigger is better, right? They're looking for some more call protection. They are looking for some concessions probably, compared to previous type deals. But the bottom line is that investors are waiting for deals and they want to see bigger deals.

So that's really good news. What it means then is spreads will come in and we'll have to accept the benchmark rates. And I think those benchmark rates will probably continue to oscillate all year. They'll be up or down and maybe you got to pick a window but that's the kind of environment we're in. Jon, over to you to talk about how – like why would we – I guess the question is, why would we buy with cap rates in line with debt cost? Why do that at all? Maybe you can give us some insight into that.

For sure. And I think, Jade, it's a great question and it's extremely important to think about this over a period of time versus point in time. So your point is right, if you're buying at cap rates right on top of leverage, you're not getting benefit on day one. But if you think about this over, let's say, an eight-year investment program or a vehicle life and you're going to see, as Gary mentioned before, let's say, 4% to 5% NOI growth every single year. Over time, you, certainly, get those benefits of leverage. So, going in on an unlevered basis, you might expect a 9% or 10% IRR. But if you're adding 50% leverage at or around 5.5% to 6%, the same as your cap rate, you're going to see that IRR expand closer to 14% or 15%. So it's really thinking about the longer term because you're getting the leverage benefit on that growth as opposed to just going in.

So on that point, is there an opportunity to scale up your acquisitions on an unlevered basis and then accumulate a very large portfolio to securitize in a very low leverage structure, which would allow those CMBS buyers you met – with the 30 you met with, who want scale in the deal to buy like a really big piece of AAAs and maybe into some of the slightly lower-rated securities?

Yeah, the answer to that is yes.

Okay. Thank you very much for taking the questions and look forward to speaking with you soon.

Thanks, Jade.

Your next question comes from the line of Tal Woolley from National Bank Financial. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. I just wanted to start on the fundraising side. You mentioned, you're optimistic that you should be able to re-up with your partners for another joint venture on the single-family rental side. Just wondering, longer term, given that there's been such a sort of sea change in credit markets over the last year, how you're seeing – is there still as much dry powder as you hoped in the private markets longer term?

There is. Now, there's some puts and takes to that, right? The biggest issue in the private capital markets is if you have an allocation of real estate alternatives, you're now dealing with – where do you allocate your top capital given extreme uncertainty in dislocation, in office, obviously in retail as well. And so, what that's meant over time – and we think that's going to continue to happen is – certainly what we're hearing from our JV partners is more and more capital has to find its way into beds and sheds. And a lot of investors are underweighted or have virtually no allocation of single-family rental.

So that – that's a tremendous long-term opportunity for our industry and certainly Tricon to be much, much bigger and for us to raise a lot more third-party capital. In the short term, offers some pension funds – there is a denominator effect, issue. So as the value of equities comes down, they have to adjust a real estate allocation. So for some, there's some short-term pressure. But for others, they're just underweighted to one real estate and certainly underweighted to single-family rental or resi. So we think, there'll be a lot of opportunities to raise more money at the end of this year and obviously over time.

Okay. That's helpful. And then I guess just lastly, a market selection in the single-family rental business. Are there markets now where you're kind of like at the size you want to be and you're not that interested in growing unit count? And are there sort of markets where you're really looking to add homes?

Jon, I'm going to turn that over to you.

Sure. So for the first part, I would say from a scale perspective, we're happy to grow in all of our markets. Even if you look at our largest market, Atlanta, we're just a fraction of the size of where we think the opportunity is. So there's no market right now or even submarket within those larger markets where we reach any kind of a concentration limit [audio gap] (00:56:46). Within the markets where we do own homes, sure, there are certainly places where we're seeing stronger performance than others where we're seeing a bit of softening. We continue to view Atlanta, Charlotte, Dallas, Tampa, Nashville extremely strong, those are places where we continue to grow.

I would say, if you look at rent growth and demand, we are seeing some softening in particular in Phoenix and Vegas. And those are really markets where there was such a strong run up in rent growth at the beginning of the pandemic and home price appreciation. We're really just getting a little bit back in those places. So we're seeing a little bit lower cap rates and slower rent growth there. So we're biasing our acquisitions a little bit elsewhere right now.

Okay. I'm glad you brought up Atlanta. I'm sure you probably saw the piece in the Journal-Constitution a few weeks ago, just talking about what they thought the impact of single-family rental on the city. This is going to be an ongoing question, I'm sure, for the next few years. How – are you seeing any sort of shifting signs of the politics around single-family rental in some of your major markets?

I actually think we're starting to see some positive. I think we're starting to see some green shoots, not just in the debt capital markets but on the regulatory front as well. And if we're sticking with Atlanta – yeah, we did see that piece. But the University of Georgia is going to be coming out with a landmark study – research study, which is going to show how that the real issue around high home prices and rent is a lack of supply. And they're going to discuss how any infringement on property rights actually is detrimental and leads to lower supply and higher rent. So that type of research from reputable institutions is incredibly important.

Florida is in the process of passing a bill or an amendment to a bill, which will prevent local governments or counties from passing any kind of rent control. We see that as being really positive. Any bills that have tried to limit institutional ownership of homes has failed on the floor. So those haven't gone anywhere. We think the White House blueprint for a tenant bill of rights is a step in the right direction. We've come out with our own Resident Bill of Rights, which we think is incredibly important. We think as this industry matures, you need a standard of conduct or care that will hold all operators to that standard. And we think that's incredibly important as the industry matures. So those – that's starting to happen and it's going to protect residents. It's going to make our industry stronger.

And really, we have to get the message out there, Tal, that there's a lot of families – and to be precise, it's about 35% in the US that either can't buy a home because they don't have the credit or they don't have a down payment or they want the flexibility but they can't buy a home and that creates a wealth barrier. And so that's why our industry is so important because it allows families to move into these neighborhoods with good schools and it allows them to have better outcomes for their families and then their families and it allows upward mobility. So I think when lawmakers and the media start to understand how important it is for families to have options or alternatives and they realize all the good things that we and our industry are doing, that sentiment will start to change.

Got it.

[indiscernible] (01:00:05)

I may just add one piece to that and that is we have created a government relations arm or group within the company. And we've identified – we've gone through the process of identifying, we're starting to reach out to key local state and federal government officials, even media, third party allies to educate everybody about the benefits of this industry and especially how we're running our real estate and how we think about our residents. So it's something we're taking a very proactive approach to do exactly what Gary was saying and educating people about our industry.

Great. Thanks very much, everyone.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Dean Wilkinson from CIBC. Your line is open.

Thanks. Afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Dean. How are you?

I'm fantastic. I hope you are too.

Perfect. Good to hear that.

I don't know if this question's for Gary or is this a balance sheet question for your very own CJ Parker. Looking at the Canadian residential development side of things. The $1.5 billion, give or take, are remaining project costs. How much of that is at risk of vis-à-vis inflationary pressures? And have you seen a material uptick in project level financing that is starting to squeeze those returns?

Andrew Joyner is here, so he may want to chime in a little bit on the detail but I think the short answer, Dean, is no. We're in very, very good shape. The vast, vast majority of our costs are locked in. It's not to say we haven't seen significant cost inflation – we have over the years but those costs are locked in with rents moving up fairly precipitously.

So the economics of the deals look incredibly good. There is some issues around availability of financing but we're very fortunate to have a venture with Canada Pension Plan, where our new projects, including Queen and Ontario and Symington are being funded with all equity or all cash. And so those projects are fully funded.

So we're really in a great situation. This portfolio is going to add a ton of value over time. It's going to take, probably, a couple of more or a few more years. But over time, we should be able to harvest significant value. And then, we may be able to think about monetizing some of that and using it to grow SFR, pay down debt.

Right, make sense. Get a sense of how much, if you were to pencil that project – those projects out today, how much that $2.2 billion could inflate to?

In terms of what the value of the gross value of the portfolio is? The way I think of it – I don't know that off the top of my head. The way I think about it is, we've got around $200 million invested equity that's Tricon's proportionate share. So we've got about $200 million invested. I think the fair value, that's about $250 million. Does that sound about right? And we think that's going to easily be worth $400 million or $500 million, right?

So that's pretty significant value creation over time. And we're already seeing that on The Taylor. Like, The Taylor is going exceptionally well. We're already at 50% leased. We're above budget – significantly above budget on time and on rents. And that's looking like it's going to pencil in to close to a 6% yield, which is, obviously, very attractive even with higher baseline rates today.

Great. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Jade.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher from TD Cowen. Your line is open.

Hi, good afternoon. Just on the – going back to the regulatory front. How much does regulatory risk factor into your buy box on where you're looking to buy? And are there any markets where you're maybe looking to lower exposures to?

Across the board, it really doesn't. It's a non-factor. There's a lot of noise around it. And we talked about before that in an environment where home prices and rents are moving up a lot, there's going to be more noise, it's going to ebb and flow. But that's, obviously, an environment that's more deflationary, some of that noise goes away. So it's always going to be there. It's always going to ebb and flow. It's not a factor for us for where we buy. There's nothing happening in, virtually, any market where the rent is limiting our ability to run the portfolio to raise rents. I think the only place – and Kevin might chime in where I think we might want to limit our exposure would probably be LA County.

Kevin, maybe you could talk about LA County but it's a difficult place to operate and that might be a market we think about proving our portfolio and recycling some capital. That would be the one market where we would think about doing it.

Yeah. Thanks. I agree this is a market where it's still – they're still on moratoriums – rent moratoriums for residents living in the county, making it very difficult. Fortunately for us, most people are responsible and they're paying their rent but there is a small cohort of people who are taking advantage of it or going to wait it out until the moratoriums end. So it makes it a little bit more difficult to operate here. And so, as Gary mentioned, we're probably going to hold off on investing anymore and going into the future.

Okay. So the 400 homes you're looking to sell this year, they'd be sprinkled, basically, across your portfolio?

No. They'd largely be southeast Florida and LA County.

Okay. And then lastly, just on the corporate overhead, just say you're looking to have that down $0.03 this year. What is the starting point for that? Does that exclude the $50 million in LTIP from 2022?

Yes.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Great. Thanks, Jon.

And there are no further questions at this time. Mr. Gary Berman, I turn the call back over to you for some final closing comments.

Thank you, Rob. I'd like to thank all of you on this call for your participation. We look forward to seeing you at our upcoming Investor Day in April and speaking with you again in May to discuss our Q1 results.

This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.