Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Managing Director, Capital Markets, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Andy Carmody — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Kevin Baldridge — President, Tricon American Homes, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Mark Rothschild — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Mario Saric — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Tricon Capital Group Third Quarter 2019 Analyst Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to our speaker today, Mr. Wojtek Nowak. Sir, please go ahead.

Thank you, Betty. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, which we shared in the news release distributed yesterday. I'd like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information. This information is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to our most recent Management Discussion and Analysis and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR and on our company website.

Our remarks also include references to non-GAAP financial measures which are explained and reconciled in our MD&A. I would also like to remind everyone that all figures are being quoted in US dollars unless otherwise stated. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible there following the call.

Lastly, please note that during this call, we will be referring to a supplementary conference call presentation posted on our website. If you haven't already accessed it, it will be a useful tool to help you follow along during the call. You can find the presentation in the Investor Information section of triconcapital.com under Events & Presentations.

With that, I will turn the call over to Wissam Francis, EVP and CFO of Tricon Capital Group.

Thank you, Wojtek. Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Q3 was another solid quarter for Tricon, driven by strong operating metrics in our core rental businesses as well as significant growth in FFO per share and third-party AUM.

Let's begin with the business highlights on slide 2. In our Tricon American Homes single-family rental business, NOI grew by 32% and FFO by 66% year-over-year. As the portfolio grew in size, we achieved strong rent growth and continued to deliver operating efficiencies. On a similar note, NOI for the same-home portfolio also grew by 10% year-over-year, mainly as a result of ongoing rent growth and margin improvements. While achieving these strong operating results, TH maintained a very active pace of acquisitions, adding 918 homes during the quarter for the TH joint venture. Based on the current acquisition pace, the joint venture is expected to be fully invested in early 2021, tracking as per our business plan.

In our multi-family rental business, the newly acquired US Multi-Family Portfolio delivered 6.8% same-property NOI growth, as we focus on increasing occupancy and are now within our target range of 95%. Meanwhile, in Canada, our first multi-family development project in Toronto The Selby, achieved 73% lease-up and our development pipeline increased to 3,600 units with the new acquisition of Block 10 and the planned expansion of West Don Lands community.

And finally, contractual fees increased by 46% year-over-year, while third-party AUM grew by 28%, driven by a $450 million joint venture formed this quarter, with a new institutional investor, the Arizona State Retirement System. This exciting new venture will focus on developing single-family build-to-rent communities and master-planned communities in the US Sunbelt. Our financial performance this quarter is reflected in our strong growth in FFO per share, a key metric we introduced last quarter and have now formalized in our MD&A disclosure.

As you can see on slide 3, Tricon generated total FFO of $24 million in Q3, more than double the prior year's result of $11 million. The increase was largely driven by first, higher single-family rental Core FFO of $19 million, compared to $13 million in the first period last year as the portfolio grew in size and delivered high rental income and continuing expansion of the NOI margin. Second, incremental contribution of $7 million of Core FFO from the US Multi-Family Portfolio in its first full quarter under Tricon's ownership; third, lower investment income from residential developments of $3 million this quarter compared to $5 million in the same period last year, as a result of increased development cost and timing delays in our Tricon Housing Partners' for-sale business. Fourth, higher contractual fees of $10 million compared to $7 million in the prior year, mainly from higher performance fees on our legacy for-sale housing investment as well as strong development fees from Johnson. And fifth, a measured increase in corporate overhead to $10 million compared to $9 million in prior year to accommodate our growing staffing needs. Overall, our FFO per share this quarter was $0.11, which translates to CAD 0.15 and represents a growth of 67% compared to last year. We will continue to focus on FFO per share as a key metric of our performance going forward.

On slide 4, we summarize our reported IFRS and non-IFRS results. You can see that Tricon generated IFRS diluted earnings per share of $0.15 this quarter as compared to $0.24 in the same period last year. These results closely track our adjusted EPS of $0.17 for the quarter and $0.27 for the prior year. The main difference between the IFRS and the adjusted figures relate to the transaction costs and non-recurring items, derivative valuation changes and unrealized foreign exchange fluctuations. Digging deeper into year-over-year variance, our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $83 million compared to $75 million in the same period last year, accounting for a 10% increase.

In addition to the drivers already discussed on slide 3, I would highlight that adjusted EBITDA included fair value gain of $18.7 million in this quarter compared to $42 million in Q3 2018, a change of $24 million. Without this item, adjusted EBITDA would have increased by 96% year-over-year. I'll also note that this quarter's EBITDA does not include any fair value gains on the recently purchased US Multi-Family Portfolio as we remain holding [ph] at a cost for now (06:51). Below the EBITDA line, we saw higher adjusted interest expense related to our growing asset base including the US Multi-Family Portfolio as well as higher deferred tax expense arising from the fair value gains on non-core assets.

These factors led to overall lower adjusted net income and earnings per share year-over-year. In short, the negative variance on our EPS was largely driven by changes in fair value gains, which masked the solid operating performance reflected in our FFO per share results.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Gary to talk about the highlights of our business verticals and our priorities going forward.

Thank you, Sam. Let's turn to page 5 and talk about operational highlights for our single-family rental business, which we call Tricon American Homes. If you look at these metrics, you can see that this business is clearly firing on all cylinders and notwithstanding record low resale volumes in many of our markets, our proprietary acquisition tool, TriAD, is allowing us to consistently hit our acquisition targets and volumes. We bought 918 homes in the quarter one by one, all for the joint venture. That increased our total homes managed after some minor dispositions to 19,962 homes. That's up 19% year-over-year, 15,500 homes are wholly-owned and the rest are in the joint venture. And subsequent to quarter-end, we achieved a very exciting milestone for us. We purchased our 20,000 homes in Atlanta and now we're setting our sights on a new goal of reaching 30,000 homes. And we'd like to do that within three years through organic buying.

If you look at the occupancy, it's down 50 basis points year-over-year. This is just because we ramped up acquisition volume in Q3 2019 versus last year. Blended rent growth at 6.1% for the quarter extremely strong, and reflects what we think is insatiable demand for our middle market product. It's only down year-over-year because we're self-governing on renewals. That's our intent to really capture rent increases over a longer period of time, rather than to maximize in any given quarter. All-in-all, revenue off a very strong 26% year-over-year on a stronger, higher lease portfolio, 18,414 homes in service versus 15,472 homes last year and also coupled, as we said, with strong rank growth and relatively stable occupancy.

And then on the expense side, these are up 15%, but obviously not nearly as much as revenues. This is because of our continued internalization effort of repairs and maintenance which I'll talk more about in the same-store portfolio. But all-in-all, NOI growth of 32% year-over-year to $49.7 million and our NOI margin at 64.7%, up over 3% year-over-year. This is a record for us in the quarter and which is typically a tougher period because of elevated HVAC repairs.

Let's move on to slide 6 and talk about the single-family rental, same-home portfolio which gives us a better indication of year-over-year performance. I have to remind you, we've got 14,446 homes in the same-home portfolio. It's roughly 72% of our total portfolio. Occupancy here, relatively stable, blended rent growth, very strong again at 6.4%. The only reason for the slight reduction year-over-year again is because we're self-governing on renewals. All-in total rental revenue up 5%. We're using our revenue maximization tools to basically find the right combination between occupancy and rent growth. You will have probably noticed our occupancy is bit dipping down slightly over the last year, but we're trying to really maximize revenue, so that's up 5% year-over-year.

Ancillary fees or income is up 26%. And this is something we'd like to spend more time talking to you about it at our Investor Day in January. We're in the really early innings of driving ancillary income. The increase here is from increasing early lease termination fees, doing a better job of collecting [ph] tenant (10:54) fees and mandating renters' insurance, but we believe that we can roll out a whole number of services or products which will improve the living experience for our residents and allow us to capture more income. Total revenues all-in with higher ancillary fees are up 6% year-over-year on the same-store portfolio.

Onto expenses, our property taxes were up year-over-year 6%; year-to-date, they are up about 7.5%. They continue to be a drag on our margin. But really, the big story on the expense side continues to be our ability to save on repairs and maintenance and turnover. And there were several factors driving this. First, we are performing more work orders in house and increasingly using our maintenance team to attend to HVAC repairs. Total work orders performed in house were up 15% year-over-year. HVAC work orders performed internally are now up to 45% from a negligible amount last year.

Second, we become much better at refining our scope of work. We've defined a standard product across the portfolio, set monthly budgets and are managing to those budgets. Third, our TriOPS operating technology is ensuring less leakage between budget and actuals. For instance, all national pricing is tied into TriOPS so that our teams cannot spend more than the predefined prices and can only use approved suppliers or vendors with extended warranties. Also, all scope line items now roll into a [indiscernible] (12:17) cost category, which shows a cost per square foot. This enables our managers and directors to make educated approval decisions, which is integrated with TAH's delegation of authority. Fourth, we're using our increased scale to drive procurement and obtain competitive pricing and warranties on larger items and finally, our more diligent resident underwriting process results in higher quality residents which in turn translates into less trashed homes on move-out.

So you can see all of this together has resulted in a significant reduction in R&M and turnover, 19% year over year. And so when you take it in total revenue, up 6%, total operating expenses down 2%. That translates to same-home NOI growth of 10%, which is an industry-leading metric and the same-home NOI margin, again a record for us in this quarter, up 256 basis points. If you look at same-home NOI growth over a full year, it's been anywhere from about 9% to 12%. Again we're seeing insatiable demand for our middle market Sunbelt product and we're continuing to be able to contain our costs.

Let's move on to slide 7 and talk about the US Multi-Family Portfolio. Q3 2019 represents the first period where we've had a full quarter of results. We acquired this portfolio in June of this year. To remind everyone, this is a high-quality garden style portfolio in the Sunbelt. Our recent vintage property is very complementary to our single-family rental business in terms of geographic overlap. The story for us here is being able to drive occupancy. It's up 120 basis points year-over-year, touching very close to our target of 95%. We're doing that in some ways by sacrificing new lease growth. So overall, blending growth is – blended rent growth is lower than where we'd like it at 1.6%, but we see this as a big opportunity once we get past 95% or consistently hit 95% and through the transition service agreement, we see an opportunity heading into 2020 to really drive rent growth.

On the expense side, we have seen some good savings. We're benefiting from Starlight's asset management initiatives, which have allowed us to successfully renegotiate contracts at favorable rates including, for valet trash and revenue management software and we've also seen some property tax recoveries as we successfully appealed assessment. So expenses all in all, down 4%, which translates to very strong NOI growth of 6.8% year-over-year and our margins up 250 basis points to roughly 59%.

Let's move on to slide 8 and talk about our Canadian build-to-core multi-family development business and we'll start with The Selby, which is in lease up, very strong period for us. We recorded about 110 leases. Selby lease-up is now up to 73% at the end of the quarter, 70% occupied. If you recall, we underwrote rent of $2.90 per foot per month, where we now have in-place rent of $3.75 and that's moving up as we lease the upper floors. And now that our expenses or costs are fixed and we have a very good idea of revenue, we believe that this project will generate a 6% development yield and we just locked in 10-year CMHC Financing at 2.4%. So that's a 360 basis point spread. We believe that's going to translate into a 10-year IRR of about 20% and a margin on cost in excess of 50%. This is a home run for us and it bodes well for the rest of the portfolio. Let's talk about that on slide 9.

So let's go through the thumbnails here, we talked about the Selby. Number two is The Taylor, which is the King in Spadina in the entertainment district in Toronto. And here we've also made a lot of progress. We've now tendered 75% of construction contracts. The formwork is above-grade, costs are largely locked in. Based on where rents are, we think the development yield here is going to be at or above The Selby. At The James, which is our Scrivener Square project in a very exclusive Rosedale/Summerhill area of Toronto, we made significant progress subsequent to quarter end. We received zoning approval from LPAT, which is the land planning Appeals Tribunal, it took us roughly three years to get this done, little longer than what we would like. But if you go back to previous developers, it actually took 25 years to zone the site. The counselor in the area referred this site as a graveyard for developers. We now have this zoned. We have an incredibly compelling product and we're expecting to start demolition and construction early next year.

Our Gloucester project on [indiscernible] (17:00) between Bloor and Wellesley has just started construction; so that's an exciting milestone for us. The Labatt project in Corktown south of Region Park is still in the development and design process, where we're getting ready to submit for site plan application and I think last, but definitely not least, we made a lot of progress in the West Don Lands. We entered into an agreement with our joint venture partners Kilmer and DREAM to develop Block 10. This is a three-acre block in between blocks 3, 4, 7 and A20. If you're familiar with Toronto, this is where the old Canary building sits, it used to be greasy spoon and where they used to film movies. But this is now going to be developed into a 300-unit apartment on a 130-year ground lease. That site is owned by the Anishinaabe people. And so we're really excited about taking this forward. It increases our overall portfolio in the West Don Lands to 1,800 units and the total Canadian multi-family development portfolio to 3,600 units. And also within the West Don Lands, we locked in our financing from the federal government through the RCFI program. This is the largest loan ever made by the federal government for a project of this type of $357 million and it's going to allow us to start construction imminently. So, a lot of progress over the quarter in our Canadian multi-family development business.

Let's move on to slide 10 and talk about our Private Funds and Advisory business. Obviously the big news in the quarter was the closing of the Arizona State joint venture. This has allowed us to grow our third-party AUM by 33% to $2.3 billion for the quarter. But I think more importantly it allows us to achieve two key strategic priorities. The first one, with the venture setup, we're now well-positioned to syndicate or sell our wholly-owned master-planned communities to the venture, which allows us to repatriate cash and use that to pay down leverage and continue to transform THP off balance sheet.

Second and in a way more importantly, it allows us to become a leader in the build-to-rent business. And it essentially transforms THP into build-to-rent business, which is in keeping with our rental housing strategy and it allows us to take full advantage of our platform. We can use land provision from Johnson for these communities. We can use our private equity expertise to form relationships with best-in-class or builders, and obviously we can manage the portfolio through TAH.

And on the right side of this page, you can see that we've had a very impressive quarter in terms of year-over-year growth in contractual fees, up 46%. This is driven by our performance fees on our legacy THP funds and Johnson also had a very good quarter, lot sales up 33% year-over-year and lot prices up 7%. We set a long-term goal of wanting our contractual fees to cover our corporate overhead. Well actually, we achieved that and then some in this quarter alone. But I will note that both performance fees and Johnson revenues are higher than what we would consider to be run rate.

Let's move onto slide 11, so now that we've transformed Tricon into a rental housing company and really a cash flow store, we want to focus on FFO per share as our key performance metric as what Sam mentioned earlier. You can see on the left hand side, we're targeting a three-year growth rate of 10% per annum for FFO per share. The target for 2019 is $0.37 to $0.40. In Canadian dollars, that's CAD 0.48 to CAD 0.52 or CAD 0.50 midpoint. That's our target for the year and from there, we want to grow our FFO per share by 10% per annum with a 2022 target of $0.50 to $0.55 or CAD 0.66 to CAD 0.72 in Canadian dollars.

We wanted to give you some more insight into how we think we achieved that. Obviously these are impressive numbers compared to where most real estate companies are out in terms of FFO per share growth, so we wanted to illuminate that. Starting with number one, these are the main drivers. So with single-family rental, the way we've determined this is we've annualized our Q3 FFO and that's $76 million and going forward over three years, we're assuming same-home NOI growth of 4.5%.

We think that's readily achievable in this environment. We're obviously doing a lot better. We're obviously not taking into account any unforeseen circumstances or recession, it assumes a stable economic environment, but obviously in this environment, we feel very confident about doing 4.5%. That adds $24 million of FFO and we're also going to continue to invest the TAH joint venture roughly 800 homes a quarter, all the way through Q1, Q2 2021. We're going to assume 65% debt there at 4%, take our one-third share, that adds another $8 million and it gets us to about $108 million of total FFO or adds $0.15 per share, assuming 215 million diluted weighted shares.

Next key driver is US Multi-Family Portfolio, here we're assuming 3% same-property NOI growth. That adds $6 million and gets us to $33 million or incremental $0.03 FFO per share. And on contractual fees, we're assuming that we're going to raise another $1 billion of fee-bearing capital and assuming 1%. So, that adds $10 million of fees. We're not taking into account any ancillary fees such as development fees or property management fees. And we're not assuming any performance fees. So, we feel that that is readily achievable. If you add all of that up, that's $0.23 in US dollars, CAD 0.30 in Canadian dollars. If you add that to our 2019 target, it actually exceeds the 2022 target, but we are building in some cushion for contingency and maybe some incremental overhead.

So, let's turn to page 12 and get a sense of what that looks like in terms of our targeted asset mix. And before we do that, let's just talk about the key drivers that are going to impact asset mix. As we talked about, we intend to complete the TAH joint venture by Q1, Q2 of 2021. We are working with a broker to potentially syndicate a 50% interest in a US Multi-Family Portfolio, if those terms make sense. That would be a 2020 goal or target. By 2022, we expect to have the majority of our Canadian multi-family development portfolio stabilized. Our goal in THP is continue to take this off balance sheet. Our balance sheet value today is about $320 million. We'd like to cut that in half within three years through asset sales and continued run-off of the business. And then our last development – multi-family development asset in Texas, the Maxwell is 95% stabilized, it's under contract and we expect to sell that by the end of the year.

So these drivers – actually many of them are kind of one to two years, not three years, but we are taking them into account in our three-year target and essentially all we're saying here is we're just going to complete what we started and that's how we're determining the asset mix. So you can see on FFO contribution, development already is a very small component as we transform for rental housing company, but it's really de minimis by the time we got to 2022 at 5%. If you look at the breakdown between product types, 55% would be single family rental, 20% multi-family rental and 20% contractual fees. Again, this is a story of rental housing, plus managing third-party capital, which delivers very predictable income streams.

On the balance sheet, today, we're 81% core rental, 19% development. Our long-term goal is to reduce development as a percentage of our balance sheet to 10%, maybe even below that. So here, you can see 10% to 15% with these drivers by 2022. On AUM, right now, we're 70% principal, 30% third-party, again with these drivers, that makes changes to 55% principal and 45% third-party capital.

Let's move on to slide 13 and conclude with our performance dashboard. This compares our actual performance in the quarter compared to our goals and we're going to repeat this over and over again almost like a Broadway play. So let's start with our first key priority, growing FFO per share by 10%, obviously we had a very, very strong quarter. Even if you strip out episodic performance fees, we easily beat that target, but again you can see we were up 67% year-over-year. On third-party AUM, we set a goal last quarter of raising an incremental $1.5 billion of fee-bearing capital. Well, with the closing of the Arizona State joint venture, we're now 27% through that target, so good progress in raising third-party AUM. Book value per share, this is really a key metric that ties into IFRS earnings. Our book value per share is now up to CAD 11.04 and we've been able to grow that by 19% per annum since getting into single-family rental in 2012.

On the leverage side, no tangible progress in the quarter, but we did set ourselves up in many ways to achieve our longer-term goal of reducing look-through leverage to 50% to 55%. Obviously, with the announcement of the Arizona State joint venture, we're positioning ourselves to syndicate our wholly-owned master-planned communities and generate cash to pay down debt. We put the Maxwell under contract and expect to close that at the end of the year. And we also hired a broker to consider selling a 50% interest in our US Multi-Family Portfolio. And if we can achieve all of those things, we believe we can lower the look-through leverage to closer to 55% within about a year.

And last but not least, on the reporting side, our goal is to continue to improve reporting, make Tricon simpler and easier to understand. We formally adopted FFO per share this quarter. We're going to check that box. In Q1, we're hoping to roll out a comprehensive ESG roadmap and implementation plan. We think that's a key initiative to be more investor-friendly. And last but not least, we continue to review our financial disclosure and determine whether we can come up with other policies or disclosure that makes us look more and more like our peers. As an example, we are exploring consolidated accounting and this is something that our auditors and our board are reviewing and we'll probably determine whether we adopt this sometime next year.

So, that concludes the presentation, all in all a very good quarter. We made significant progress to achieving our key financial priorities. None of this would have been possible without the hard work and commitment of our team. I want to thank them for everything that they do.

And now I will turn the call back to Betty and take questions. And we'll be joined by other members of the senior management team, including Jon Ellenzweig, Andy Carmody, Andrew Joyner and Kevin Baldridge. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Dean Wilkinson.

Thank you, Betty. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Dean.

I've always wanted to see Wissam singing a Broadway show, so this should be good. Gary, on the – I'll let Wissam get over that. On the margin improvements within the Multi-Family, if you net out the – sort of the property taxes that you got back from the prior period adjustments, and I know it's early days. You've started to see some synergies there. Do you think you can get the same kind of margin expansion that you've got out of the single-family rental business or do you think structurally this probably tops out somewhere in that 60% range?

Yeah. No, I don't think we're going to get what we saw in single-family rental. Single-family, remember we went from 58% when we acquired Silver Bay up to about 65% today. And part of that is just kind of learning the business and getting better at it and institutionalizing it. So we had to kind of start from scratch there. Multi-family is obviously and garden style is much more established. So structurally, I just don't think that's possible, but I do think we can drive the margin over time, particularly when we get through the transition services agreement and ultimately, I think when we take over take over property management, we probably love to do that within a couple of years.

Right.

So, when we do that, I think we have a better chance of driving margin. But I think it's fair to assume that even though we've got some what feels like there's some one-time events, we do, as we said look forward and feel that we can grow the same-store NOI by 3% per annum. And depending on the composition of that, we should be able to incrementally drive the margin.

Right. That makes sense. And then, as Wissam mentioned, there were no fair value gains in that segment now. And obviously, you've just – it's been a quarter since you closed on them. At what point would you start looking at fair value in that portfolio? And what would the process be? Or would it just track sort of the HPI index similar to how you're doing it with the single family?

Yeah. I could take that, Dean. [indiscernible] (30:29) move to a cap rate method, just like what it would look like for any REIT. But in the interim, we're going to focus on going through and wrapping up the transition services agreement and potentially consider partnering up with third-party investors at the time. We want to be conservative in booking all – any fair value gains for now before we syndicate it. And then we'd recommend not modeling any gains in the time being until we get to that stage and determining whether we are going to syndicate it or not.

So, more like a 2020 – latter part of 2020?

Yeah, latter part of 2020. Like I said, after we go the syndication route and [indiscernible] (31:05) interested in that, then we'll – that will determine what the real fair value should be.

Okay. That's good. Just turning to the build-to-rent structure, I'm assuming that that's going to be done sort of – would that be in the existing Johnson master-planned communities like Viridian and Cross Creek? Or are you looking at other places to build those?

I'm going to hand that over to Andy, he can give an update on what we're thinking with build-to-rent. Andy?

Hi Dean, on build-to-rent, great question. We're looking at it both ways. We have several pods in the Johnson master plans that we are working on carving out to serve as build-to-rent communities and we think there's some real potential in those sites given the quality of those locations and the sought-after nature of those communities. But we also believe there's meaningful opportunity outside of those master plans, particularly in closer-in and smaller in-town locations, which are also valuable to our residents and so we're planning to pursue kind of both in parallel.

Okay, that makes sense. And then just in terms of the actual vehicle itself, is the joint venture for just the development side of it or what – does the pension plan want to own the assets on the backend sort of in conjunction with TAH or is there an exit around that and those assets would just vend into the TAH business.

Yeah. So the joint venture, Dean, is just for development. We don't want to run any conflicts obviously with our existing TAH joint venture. So it's just for development of build-to-rent communities. In Arizona states, our long-term intention is to hold these communities. They view this as long-term recurring income and they view it as a long-term hope.

Okay, makes sense. Last one for me, Wissam, the $2.1 million charge on the amendment and restatement of the term facility, is that number netted out in the adjusted EPS number or if I were to look at that sort of on a comparable basis, I should back that out.

Yeah, we back it up because it's the transaction cost, typically you would amortize that over the life, but we just expensed it and moved on.

You just expensed the whole thing in the quarter?

That's correct.

Okay, perfect. I will hand it back. Thanks guys.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Rothschild.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Hi, Mark.

Hi, [indiscernible] (33:48) of mine, but maybe with regard to the joint venture for THP, for the assets that would be similar to THP. To what extent do you expect to reduce your equity in that segment over the next year and going forward, should we pretty much assume that you're not going to be investing substantial equity in projects like that and you'll do it more with joint ventures where you just manage the assets?

Yeah, that's correct. We're essentially – we're deemphasizing THP. We've been very clear about that, we're moving into an off-balance sheet business. I said in the prepared remarks that our longer-term goal is to basically cut our balance sheet exposure to this business in half. So we're at about $320 million today. We'd like to cut that in half within three years. We'll probably get to a point soon where it will probably not even be a reported segment in our disclosure. So we really – and in many ways are kind of winding this business down in terms – as a balance sheet vehicle. It's a core competency, but if we're going to invest in for-sale housing and particularly, master-planned communities, we want to do it through the ACER's joint venture. So ACER joint venture will really become our exclusive vehicle for expanding Johnson that largely will be turned into a build-to-rent business. And again, we're trying to transform THP into a build-to-rent business, which is in keeping with our core rental strategy.

Okay, great. And then in regards to development projects in Toronto, you obviously have some interesting sites. Have you given a target for how much you expect to spend over the next year or two on these projects?

We haven't provided a target. But what I would say is that if you look at the – there's a slide in our presentation, it's on slide – it's page 9 and it basically shows the total development cost for the active projects, what we spent to date and what's remaining. And essentially the vast, vast majority of the remaining costs are going to be funded by construction debt, in other words, our equities essentially in the ground. I think from what I recall, we're going to spend something like maybe CAD 20 million next year, but largely all the equities in the ground.

Understood. Okay. And just lastly in regards to TAH, you bought, I think, a little over 900 homes in the quarter. Is that the type of run rate that you think is achievable? Are you seeing any portfolios and maybe just talk about how values have changed of late in homes you're buying in regards to cap rates also?

No. It's not. I mean, I wouldn't assume, it's run rate. I mean we've been pretty clear that we're trying to buy 800 homes per quarter over the year, but it will ebb and flow. We'd be more acquisitive in Q2 and Q3 and that would drop off in Q4 and Q1 when there's less MLS listings, so you should assume a lower pace of acquisition, onesie, twosies acquisitions in Q4, Mark. And yes, we continue to look at portfolios. There are opportunities to buy homes from smaller players. In some cases, our larger peers are looking to kind of reshuffle their portfolios. So there may be opportunities to buy from them. So there are multiple ways for us to grow, but we basically assume that we're just going to buy one home at a time and any portfolio acquisitions would be [indiscernible] (37:26).

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher.

Thanks. Good morning.

Hi, Jon. Good morning.

Just sticking with the acquisitions, are you seeing much flow on the on the multi-res side?

Well – I realize before I answer that. I realize that I didn't fully answer Mark's question before on cap rates. So, let me start there and just say that we're buying to a very high 5% cap rate. It's a very prescribed buy box that our joint venture partners want us to hit. And so, we're buying everything basically to [ph] 5.9 (38:13) blended. But what I would say is that the quality of homes we're buying in a [ph] 5.9 (38:20) keeps on getting better. So, that's the way I would answer Mark's previous question.

And then in terms of looking for multi-family opportunities, we're not actively in the market right now looking for those opportunities. We're really more focused right now in integrating the former Starlight portfolio. And so really, we'd like to really integrate that over the course of 2020, get through the transition service agreement. And once we've done that, then we'll turn our attention to being more acquisitive.

Okay. And that transition service agreement, that ends in January, correct?

Yeah. January 31.

Okay. And then, on the joint venture with Arizona State, when would you expect to vend in Trinity Falls?

We think, I would say, very high probability of that happening in Q1.

Okay. And then what's the breakdown between Trinity Falls and Bryson in the fair value? I think the total is... [indiscernible]

(39:22)

Yeah. Yeah. So it's pretty much all Trinity Falls. Bryson would be roughly $10 million. And so obviously, the other $110 million or whatever it is, is Trinity Falls. And we're also going to consider whether we would sell 89% of it or whether we sell less and retain, so that's something we're still reviewing internally.

Okay. And then just switching gears to Tricon American Homes and looking at the CapEx that you guys are putting in there, if I back out what you say you're spending on the new homes and $19,000 per home and just divide the rest by the number of homes, that amount seems to be trending up on a quarterly basis. Is there any color you can give on that?

Yeah. I don't think you can take the number right out of the MD&A because remember some of the homes that we acquired, including Silver Bay, were already renovated. So if you look at that number, I think that number right at the MD&A would be a distorted number. But typically, if we're looking at acquisitions today, we're buying homes for roughly $165,000, $170,000 and then we're putting in $20,000 to $25,000 of CapEx into those homes. And that number, I would say, has probably grown by bit by inflation, John, but really not much more than that. And obviously, it's a blended number, because every home is different and we're trying to bring each home to a common standard. So some homes, we might only spend $10,000, in other homes, we might spend $30,000, but on the whole, it's about $20,000 to $25,000.

Okay. So if you think about the homes that you've owned for a bit and if you're going to do FFO, we're going to start to think about AFFO. What do you think a fair number is for maintenance CapEx on a home on an annual basis?

Well. We're still – I mean we really do want to beef up our disclosure around CapEx that's something we think is really important. Whether we actually adopt AFFO, we're still reviewing that, but at the very minimum, we'd like to provide all the disclosure around CapEx so you can figure that out. But right now, the way we view the business, our cost to maintain, which includes repairs and maintenance, turnover and recurring CapEx is about $3,000 per unit per year. And of that $3,000, I would say $1,200 to $1,400 is CapEx. Jon, is that correct, Jon E, $1,200 to $1,400?

Yeah, correct.

Okay.

On the higher end of that Gary more or like, yeah, $1,400 – $1,400 to $1,500.

Okay.

So about half.

Okay. That's it from me. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Yeah.

Your next question comes from the line of Mario Saric.

Hi, good morning.

Hi, Mario, how are you?

All right. Good. I just want to focus on the Asset Management part of the business. I think on the call, you mentioned that you expect to be fully deployed on TAH JV-1 by early 2021. I'm not – I don't have the numbers in front of me, so I'm not quite sure what percentage is deployed today or by year end. But at what point do you start having discussions about a successor fund and how are you thinking about the structure of a successor fund in terms of exclusivity with your existing partners versus perhaps opening it up to other potential partners going forward?

So we should be 50% of the way through the acquisitions or venture by the end of the year and so if you just kind of fast forward at 800 homes a quarter, we should be fully deployed by Q2 of 2021. So that's essentially the timing and then based on deployment, we're in a position to talk about a successor fund probably middle of next year I would guess or maybe back half of next year to be a bit more conservative and obviously that initial conversation would involve – would take place between our existing partners and then we would determine whether it makes sense to open it up.

I will say this, this is a hard question to answer, Mario. But I would say this, our existing joint venture partners made the smallest possible investment they could make at $250 million each and I think that they would both feel disappointed if they couldn't put a lot more money into this sector. So that's something worth noting. I will also say that we ultimately decided not to look further at Front Yard, but we did have significant private capital lined up to look at that opportunity and I would say in addition to that, there's more and more institutions that are taking a close look at this sector.

Our existing investors are leaders; they are considered to be global leaders in real estate investment and once they go into a new asset class like this, it gets other people's attention. And so I think if we wanted to open this up, we could find probably significant more capital, but it will really just come down to whether our existing partners want to take that opportunity or not.

Got it, okay. And then maybe just with that in mind, your target of 30,000 homes within three years versus, let's say, 20,000 today, so that increases fairly comparable. It's actually a bit lower than the expected increase in the homes from the current JV, which I think was 12,000 to 13,000 homes or something...

Yeah.

...like that. So, that would – I guess a two-part question is that would imply any next series of funds would be comparable in size to what you have today or perhaps maybe the timing is off in terms of the number of years. But if when you...

Yes.

...that 30,000 target, what does that reflect in terms of the successor fund?

Yeah, it basically assumes status quo. And I think that assumption is broadly conservative. But as you know, we prefer to tend to be more conservative when we're making those – setting those goals or broadcasting to the Street what we're planning to do. But look, I think the existing joint venture is going extremely well. Our partners have told us that they're very happy. And ultimately, our hope is, we're going to want to put a lot more capital into this sector. So, maybe there's a possibility for us to go faster, but we'll see.

Got it. Okay. And then just in terms of structures, the JV of Arizona State, co-investment was 11%, the co-invest in your SFR fund is 33%, is there a kind of an ideal co-invest that you think of going forward as funds get bigger and as the product offering expands?

Yeah. Well, I mean we debate this stuff internally all the time. The way we think about it is, if it's recurring income generating at the fall, we want to have a higher co-investment, and that's why we were comfortable with a third for the single-family rentals when venture, but if it's more episodic development, we really want to take that off balance sheet, so we'd like to have a lower co-investment. And that's why the co-investment for the [indiscernible] (47:11) venture is only 11%. So, that's really the way we think about it.

Okay. That makes sense. And then just maybe a last question on the asset management front, on – coming back to slide 12 of your presentation and comparing current 2022 target, the third-party portion of the AUM is expected to increase nicely over the next several years. But the FFO contribution from the contractual fees is expected to come down 600 basis points to about 20%. So I'm not sure if the current has any kind of a one-time-ish type fees in it, but could you kind of explain?

Yeah I think part of that is again because we're just assuming kind of a pretty conservative fee structure, right, so remember, if you look at the page before, we're assuming a 1% asset management fee. We're assuming no ancillary fees, that could be development fees or construction or acquisition or property management fees. We're also assuming no performance fees. So I think that's why if you look at the pie chart, it looks underweighted.

Got it. Okay. My last question, just shifting gears to TAH operations, you noted that lease termination fees were up, a driver of the 26% year-over-year growth in the fees and other revenue categories. Can you maybe expand on what the drivers behind the higher lease termination fees and how broad-based that might be throughout the portfolio?

Kevin, do you want to do you want to talk about that?

Sure, yeah, that's a good question. And it's really the lease termination fees was one component of it. We were also – we have higher...

Kevin.

...drivers and it's – yeah. Can you hear me?

Sorry, can you just start over? We lost you for a few seconds in that answer.

Oh, okay. Yeah, sure. The termination fees like PET fees, late fee income that were really the biggest drivers was a – just a refined attention to this part of the business. So as we've increased our systems or embellished our systems, we have better visibility. We have monthly reports that we're tracking and we're able to manage the process better. So it's not a change in behavior of our resident base; it's just us getting better at the business.

Got it, okay. Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Johann Rodrigues.

Hey guys.

Hi Johann.

First starting off. One of the big kind of key drivers of the outperformance of TAH versus some of the peers over the past few quarters, is the kind of the high growth that you're getting on new move-ins, like the renewal rates seem to be kind of on – roughly on par with invitation, but you're getting much better kind of new move-in growth. What do you think is behind that, is that something you guys are doing or is it just a function of the kind of the asset type, the quality of the assets or...?

I'm going to let Kevin answer that question.

Sure so it's really – we're still harnessing a little bit as the loss to lease from the Silver Bay transaction, people stay with us. We have residents that stayed with us for a year and some residents stay four to five years. So we still have turnover attributed to the properties that we bought from Silver Bay and so we are harnessing that loss to lease. We also, as Gary mentioned, we self-govern on our renewals and so those over time as people stay with us, they build a little bit bigger the loss to lease, and so when they move out, we harness it when we put a new resident in there. And then our proprietary system that we've developed for our revenue management, it's pushing rents to where we think we're comfortable. And we've got it to where we're pricing every home every week now and we're making adjustments. We just put in some automation, where we'll – well, if a home isn't moving fast enough, we might adjust it again three days later. So we're just getting more refined in our pricing and then we're harnessing a loss to lease.

Okay. And Johann, the only thing I would add to that is, I think also our middle market strategy is also driving some of that outperformance. Remember, our average size box is 1,600 square feet and some of our larger peers, they might be closer to 2,000 square feet. So overall, it's a more affordable product and maybe on the margin that allows us to drive us a little bit more rent growth.

Okay. Perfect. And switching to the build-to-rent strategy, can you maybe just talk about what you guys are underwriting for maybe a cost to build per home and then how the yields or IIRs would compare to homes that you're acquiring?

Sure. I'm going to turn that over to Jon to answer that question.

Sure. And great question, Johann. So first on the cost side, really it's going to depend on the geographic location, the construction costs vary dramatically depending if you're on the West Coast or the Southeast or the Midwest. I would say, we're looking at several opportunities in Texas right now and from a direct cost, so these homebuilding costs that's penciling in the $55 to $65 a foot range, which is very similar to market homebuilding costs and then turning to development yield, as Gary mentioned before, in our joint venture, we're buying in the high-5s on a blended basis. And when we're looking at the development yield on new homes, it's really in similar markets, it's falling into the 6s. So we are seeing an opportunity to generate outsized returns by building those homes versus buying.

Okay, great. And then just on the Canadian Multi-Family side, you mentioned the yield for Taylor you think will be at or above Selby. Can you just refresh my memory as to what the final yield or the stabilized yield is expected to be on the Shelby and then also what are you underwriting for cost per suite or cost per square foot to build out the balance of the pipeline?

Okay. So the first question is fairly easy. We're believe we're going to hit a 6% development yield for the Shelby. Andy, do you want to talk about how we think about costs on a kind of go forward basis?

Sure. I generally answer that, Johann, that in terms of hard costs we're trying to be inside of $300 a square foot. Obviously, that the market moves somewhat over the last two, three years, but the combination of our in-house construction team and an ability to leverage relationship pricing and really get best execution there as well as being very thoughtful about site selection where we can minimize parking in transit-oriented locations and construction considerations like that to build below sort of the headline figures that that people throw around in terms of hard cost.

Okay. Perfect. Okay. And last question, Gary, can you maybe put some figures behind what the largest drivers would be to reducing leverage to that $50 million to $55 million level that you guys talk about?

Yeah. I mean it's a combination of a number of things working together, which are really predicated around asset sales, so think about it that way. Potential syndication of Trinity Falls and Bryson, the sale of Maxwell, our last development project in Texas and the potential syndication of a 50% interest in the US Multi-Family Portfolio, all of those working together have the ability to reduce our leverage by about 5%. And then, the only other thing I didn't mention is, we continue to obviously receive ongoing cash flow from our legacy THP funds. So, for example, THP1 US is going to generate about $75 million of cash over the next couple of years, so that obviously can be used to pay down leverage as well.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks. I'll turn it back, guys.

Yeah.

And your next question comes from the line of Stephen MacLeod.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Steve.

Morning. So, lots of great color so far in the Q&A. So, lots of my questions have been answered. But I just wanted to circle in really quickly on the NOI margin that you've seen at TAH, as you mentioned, a record for Q3. Just wondering, how do you expect that to move going forward? I know you talked a lot about the R&M costs, and you might still have room to bring those down. Can you just talk a little bit about anymore wiggle room you have on the NOI margin from what are already very impressive levels?

Yeah, sure. I mean I'm going to start by saying we're not going to guide above 65%. But why don't we look at the various components and I can give you some color on it. So first of all, in terms of revenues, we are just seeing insatiable demand for our middle market Sunbelt product. So I think we are confident that we'll continue to be able to drive rent above inflation and wage inflation for the foreseeable future. So maybe we're not going to drive rent growth at 6%, but I think we feel pretty confident about being able to drive it at 4% or 5%. And as Kevin talked about, we're self-governing on renewals, so we're giving ourselves room to push rent over time. So that definitely gives us comfort.

On the expense side, I would say the low-hanging fruit in terms of R&M, savings and internalization has been picked off. We have essentially caught out to our larger peers, if you look at R&M as a percentage of revenue. So from now it's really kind of incremental process improvements, more economies of scale that are going to drive that line item. I think we – I think Kevin would agree we can continue to get better and better. But I think a lot of the big savings have already been achieved. And then I think the wildcard, and this is really important, is property tax. Property tax is the largest line item of our margin, in our expenses. And it could range depending on what market we're in from 15% to 25%. So it's a major driver and we've seen really high property tax increases now for years, and this year looks like it's again it's going to be – we've got it to a range of 6% to 8%, it looks like it's going to be in the top end of the range.

And next year, our property tax consultants also saying it's going to be around 6% or 7%. So that's really hurting our margin. Otherwise we'd be doing a lot better, but it's not – that can't go on forever, right because if you look at our home price appreciation annualized only 2.4% this quarter coming down, I would view property taxes as really kind of a lagging indicator. And at some point in time, those property taxes are going to come down, they're going to moderate and that in a sense will really act as a tailwind for us as opposed to a headwind. So that's the unknown at this point, but over time, hopefully we get some relief.

Right. Okay. Okay. That's helpful. As I said all my other questions have been answered, so thank you.

Yeah. Thank you.

Thanks Steve.

Your next question comes from the line of Gregory Kwan.

Hi, guys.

Excuse me, Geoffrey. I apologize, Geoffrey Kwan. Sorry about that.

It's all right. Just one question for you.

Hi, Geoff.

You talked about just in general about your strategy about de-leveraging and increasing the asset management part of the business and also with your TAH JV. Of the 15,000 homes that you guys have on your books, like ballpark, how much of that or what might fit into that underwriting box that they're looking for and is that something, as you think about maybe the next JV of vending in some of those houses into a JV and like I said, get the deleveraging, pick up the management fees or kind of killing two birds with one stone?

Yeah. So of the – so 15,500 homes are wholly owned and we haven't had any discussions with our JV partners about vending those homes into this vehicle or any successor vehicle and we'll see, but I think it's more likely that we just continue to hold those 100% in our balance sheet and really when we refinance the securitizations, that's an opportunity to over time lower the leverage, but that gives us more flexibility. The concern we have is, if we vend that portfolio to a JV partner that wants higher leverage, we don't – we may not get the full benefit. So I think at this point, it's important that we control the wholly-owned portfolio.

Okay, thank you.

And your next question comes from the line – a follow-up question from Mario Saric.

Hi, sorry, just two more really quick ones on the operational side for TAH for me. The first one just on the self-regulation, how much do you think or how much do you estimate that cost in terms of rent growth this quarter, i.e., like how much mark-to-market are you banking within the portfolio as a result of the policy?

Kevin, you want to try to answer that?

Yeah, sure. Hi Mario, we're really – we're picking a – we were able to pick it up with the turnover of the leases. So we have consistently over, gosh, I think the last six quarters, outpaced I think all of our competitors in blended rent growth and it's really being able to maintain an occupancy level where we wanted to be and still get the rent growth. So at 6% blended rent growth for a number of quarters, we think that we're maximizing revenue as opposed to rent growth, and also we are able to keep people longer. Our turnover year-to-date is 26.3%. I think part of that is the way we're pricing our homes and we're pricing our renewals.

We also believe that over time, we'll get it over time as opposed to all at one time and at the same time, even out our rents. So – and we think it's the right thing to do for our residents. That's the type of company that we're trying to be, both from a customer service standpoint and keeping people in our homes. So as far as a mark-to-market, it's hard to tell because not all the homes are the same, but we're probably running a 4% loss to lease, 4% to 5% loss to lease, but that's not really based on data, it's my sense.

Got it. Okay. And that would be across the overall portfolio as an average?

That'd be across the same home portfolio.

Yeah. And Mario another way to look at it is if you look at our re-leasing spreads or renewals over time, they have moderated, right, because we're self-governing and I believe they've come down from about 6% to 5%.

Okay. And then just lastly, there's been a lot of regulatory discussion in the US on the rental side in the last little while, relative to what's kind of in the market or what's been in the market, are there any kind of regions in your portfolio where it's kind of flashing yellow in terms of increased regulatory risk going forward?

I mean, the short answer to that is no. In general, the entire Sun Belt continues to be a very landlord-friendly. There's – we don't see any prospect of rent control. The only exception obviously is in California and there they've set a pretty high limit on where you can raise rent so we're not – we don't think we're impacted by that at all. So we think in total, it's got no impact on our business.

Okay. Thank you.

And there are no further questions at this time and Mr. Berman, I'll turn the call back over to you.

Thank you, Betty. I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you next year when we discuss our full year results for 2019.