Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Veneziano — Vice President & General Counsel, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Secretary & Executive VP-Administration, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director-Corporate Finance & Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Lori, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital Fourth Quarter 2014 Analyst Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

David Veneziano, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Lori. Good morning, all. I have the pleasure of reminding you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information about future events and the performance of our private funds and advisory business and principal investment vehicles. This information, by its nature, is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially.

A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent management discussion and analysis and annual information form, which are available on SEDAR. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible until March 19.

And with that, I have even greater pleasure of turning the call over to Gary Berman, our new President and CEO.

Thank you, David. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter and year ending December 31, 2014, which were shared in the news release we distributed yesterday afternoon.

Let me start by saying I feel incredibly privileged and excited to become the CEO of Tricon, a company my father, David, founded in 1988 along with Geoff Matus. I know firsthand how much heavylifting David and his partners did in the early years to establish Tricon's track record and reputation. And it's with great honor that I accept the responsibility to lead Tricon forward and uphold our values that were put in place by David, Geoff, Saul Shulman, and others who were influential in the early years.

I wanted to thank our Board of Directors for their belief in me and ongoing support. David and Geoff in particular have been tremendous mentors over the years, and I'm incredibly appreciative for all the knowledge they've imparted and the huge amount of time they've invested in my growth. I look forward to working closely with both David and Geoff in the years to come as we grow from strength to strength.

The idea of Tricon becoming a housing brand, where we invest our own capital into related and complementary residential verticals and then leverage our investment by acting as an asset manager was established under David's watch. It is a powerful concept that I intend to continue.

And so, with our strategy intact, it will be business as usual at Tricon, going forward, although I suspect that the rationale for the decisions made over the last couple of years and the overall strategy itself will come into clear and clear focus as we grow and create scale in each business line.

2014 can be described as nothing else than a record year for Tricon, with all our business verticals generating earnings substantially ahead of the prior year's results. We generated approximately CAD 100 million of adjusted EBITDA in our fourth full year as a public company in comparison to just CAD 4.8 million in 2011. And this is a testament to our business strategy, the strength and resilience of our team, and the support we've received from both the public and private markets.

I want to thank our Board of Directors, employees, shareholders, limited partners, and key banking and private market relationships for the incredible effort and commitment that has gone into helping establish Tricon as a housing brand and a leader in the North American residential industry.

With nearly 100% of our balance sheet invested in the United States and in particular the fastest-growing sub-markets, we are better positioned than ever to take advantage of the ongoing newest economic and housing recovery that is now hitting its stride.

The fundamentals for U.S. housing are solidly intact with strong job growth, superior population growth compared to the rest of the western world, historically low mortgage rates, near-record housing affordability, lower gas prices, supply that is anywhere from balanced to tight in our key markets and growing household demand.

In fact, given the credit remains relatively tight and that housing starts are 50% below the 50-year average, it seems possible that we are still in the early innings of a housing recovery with the potential for an elongated upcycle. Given pent-up demand for millennials, we're deferring our inevitable decision to form new households.

Our related and complementary housing verticals, namely Tricon Housing Partners, which is our land and homebuilding division; Tricon American Homes, our newly integrated single-family rental platform; and Tricon Lifestyle Communities, our newly formed manufactured housing community or land-lease business, all stand to benefit from better economic outlook, with Tricon Housing Partners leading the way with a prospect of superior risk-adjusted returns in the earlier part of the cycle.

Our different business lines complement one another, allowing us to service the entire housing demographic in terms of both socioeconomics and household lifecycle, thereby providing us with a more complete picture of the housing industry and hopefully making Tricon a better and more informed investor in the process.

As we look forward, we are also building Tricon to be able to better withstand cycles, as Tricon American Homes and Tricon Lifestyle Communities should hold out relatively well in the downcycle, given that they provide essential affordable housing services to consumers, creating an implicit hedge in our business model, vis-à-vis the inherent cyclicality of new housing.

Further, by expanding our offerings or business lines, we've also positioned ourselves to better attract interest from third-party capital providers. Our AUM has increased 34% year-over-year to $2.5 billion, and our goal is to continue to increase that to roughly $5 billion over five years by seeking the participation of private investors in our various investment offerings.

With that, I will now turn the presentation over to June Alikhan, our Interim CFO, for a summary of how we performed in relation to our key financial metrics. And then, I will return to provide more detailed commentary on our various business lines. We will then open up the call for questions at which time I will be joined by David Berman, Wissam Francis, Jon Ellenzweig, Craig Mode, Adrian Rocca, and [indiscernible] (05:55).

Thank you, Gary, and good morning, everyone. As Gary mentioned, 2014 was a record year for us all as all business verticals contributed to our success. Let me recap some key highlights from our financials. Our adjusted base revenue increased by 94% or 90.9 million for 2014. The increase was primarily driven by the following factors. Contractual fees increased 78% to 27 million, which was the result of the inclusion of Johnson contractual fees of CAD 11.6 million. Excluding Johnson, contractual fees were essentially consistent with the prior year.

The additional fees received from new investments in 2014 were offset by one-time catch-up fees received from THP2 US , formerly Tricon XI LP in 2013; two, invested income from Tricon Housing Partners increased by 131% to CAD 42.8 million in 2014 as a result of income flowing from our 68.4% ownership of THP1 US or Tricon IX. The increase in realized investment income from Tricon American Homes was driven by the increase in rental revenue. As the portfolio continues to grow, the number of homes occupied reached 4,193 by the end of 2014, representing an increase of 65% when compared to the end of 2013.

Even though we are still in the acquisition and renovation process, we managed to increase the in-place occupancy rate by 6% year-over-year to 84% as at December 31, 2014. The growth of the portfolio and the improvement in TAH operations increased the realized investment income to CAD 18.9 million or 111% over the prior year before factoring in the fair value adjustment.

In Q4, as we prepare for securitization, we obtained BPO of nearly 2,400 homes, and we expect to do the same for most of the remaining homes in our portfolio in Q1 2015. In a BPO process, the homes are valued by independent brokers who hold active real estate licenses and have market experience in the locations and segments where the homes are valued.

The brokers value each home by finding recent comparable sales and active comparable listings in the area, assuming Tricon's home is renovated to an average standard in their respective area. The values of the comparable properties are determined by retrieving information from the MOS database.

In the fourth quarter, we recorded a CAD 27 million fair value adjustment on the entire portfolio before deducting any imputed selling cost, performance fees, and non-controlling interest. This increase was generated primarily by homes that were subject to the BPO process. By the end of 2014, we have realized an aggregate list of $85.3 million, representing the cumulative increase since launching our SFR strategy in Q1 2012 and which represents 14% of the all-in cost.

Overall, our adjusted EBITDA increased by CAD 31 million or 45% to CAD 99.8 million for 2014 compared to CAD 68.8 million for 2013. This resulted from increased adjusted base revenue as well as the fair value increase in the Tricon Housing Partners and Tricon American Homes portfolios.

In terms of the corporate overhead expense, it's worth noting that our salaries and benefits expense increased to CAD 10.7 million for 2014, partially a result of the inclusion of CAD 3.9 million of Johnson salary and benefits. We also bulked up our team by adding 15 people, including four members to our senior management as we prepare for future growth to come. In 2015, we expect an approximately 15% increase in salaries and benefits based on what we know today.

The other changes in methodology come from tax. In Q4, we had two specific tax events that contributed to a tax expense of only CAD 0.1 million in the quarter. We filed a tax election to change THP1 U.S. co-investment to a U.S. dollar functional currency reporter. The election is retroactive to January 1, 2014. Therefore, the excess tax provision recorded for the period from January 1, 2014 to September 30, 2014 was reversed in Q4.

Secondly, we also updated our assumptions to reflect the change in TAH's exit strategy from an opportunistic investment to a core principal investment consistent with the completion of the integration and internalization process. And as a result, the future tax rate was reduced from the regular business income rate of 40% to a capital gains rate of 13.25%. Adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 25% to $0.71 per share, driven by the significant growth in fees received and continued value creation from our principal investments.

As we continue to grow our asset base, it is important that we maintain our financing flexibilities. We recently increased our existing corporate revolving credit facility from $105 million to $175 million, with a $25 million accordion feature. In addition to the existing syndicated lenders, we welcomed five more financial institutions to our credit facility.

We were pleased to see that the credit facility upsize was over-subscribed and believe the additional capacity will provide us with more financial flexibility and the ability to continue achieving our growth objective while allowing us to be flexible enough to take advantage of opportunities which might come up.

It is also important to note that effective January 1, 2015, Tricon and its consolidated entities changed their functional and presentation currency to U.S. dollars. This is the result of the increasing prevalence of U.S. dollar-denominated activities of the company.

As of December 31, 2014, 98% of Tricon's balance sheet investments were in the United States. The change of functional currency will remove most of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the financial statements.

For 2014, our consolidated net income included a total unrealized FX gain of CAD 58.8 million. It is important to note that in preparing our MD&A disclosure, we removed this unrealized FX gain from the investment income of various business lines. We believe when we published the 2015 financials in U.S. dollars, the FX gain/loss will be reduced to a much lower amount, thus minimizing the fluctuations in our results attributed to FX.

Dividends will continue to be paid in Canadian and we will restate 2014 financial results to help with comparisons.

I will now turn the presentation back to Gary, who will provide additional insight on our Private Funds and Advisory and Principal Investment businesses.

Thank you, June. I'm excited to update you on the progress we're making across our business lines. As we've discussed for some time now, our goal is to control related business lines in the residential real estate industry that offers shareholders and limited partners added diversification across the full spectrum of housing from affordable housing to affordable luxury. To this end, 2014 was a year of both growth and consolidation, a conscious effort to absorb previous acquisitions and ready ourselves for future growth.

In our Private Funds and Advisory business, we increased our third-party AUM by 27% year-over-year through the formation of several land and homebuilding separate accounts and co-investment vehicles. However, our contractual fee revenue was essentially flat because of a meaningful one-time catch-up fee that occurred in 2013 upon the closings of THP2 US, formerly Tricon XI. We've now received feedback from existing limited partners in THP2 US on forming a successor U.S. housing fund, and based on those conversations we expect to have a first close later this year.

While we can't comment specifically on commitment expectations, we anticipate that THP3 US will be geared towards shorter-term land and housing projects that typically take three years to six years to complete with longer-term projects such as master planned communities being capitalized independently through separate accounts or joint ventures. We believe that this dual-pronged strategy for capitalizing land and homebuilding projects of different durations allows us to better match opportunities with investor allocation models and should allow us to reach a broader group of institutional investors over time.

The big story in our Private Funds and Advisory business in 2014 was the acquisition of the development management arm of Johnson Development Corporation, one of the pre-eminent land developers in the U.S. Our share of Johnson's EBITDA in Q4 was nearly 150% higher than Q3 as a result of lot and commercial pad closings that were supposed to take place earlier in the year, but were pushed back because of weather issues. In 2014, Tricon generated approximately CAD 3.7 million of EBITDA from Johnson, which represents an unlevered yield of approximately 18% on our acquisition.

Perhaps this is a good opportunity to talk quickly about what we are seeing in the energy markets. While it's still early days, Texas, in general, and Houston in particular, seem to be holding up relatively well amidst the oil price collapse in the underlying economy as the underlying economy is much more diversified than it was in the 1980s. Johnson master planned communities which accounted for approximately 9% market share of new home sales in Houston in 2014 has seen a reduction in sales of approximately 25% year-to-date on active projects compared to last year, but sales have been accelerating in the last few weeks. In fact, some public homebuilders have recently recorded that their sales in Houston are basically flat year-over-year.

At this juncture, we expect Johnson fee income to be lower in 2015, again perhaps by as much as 25%, but still come in at a very healthy level when viewed in the context of our acquisition. We are currently working with the Johnson team to secure a pipeline of deals outside of Houston to diversify Johnson's geographic footprint and to take advantage of their builder relationships in other strong regional markets. If any of these deals transpire, then it's entirely possible that fee income could be higher than what we are currently anticipating or that there will be less downside to current fee levels.

In Alberta, the housing market is clearly softer, but we don't want to speculate on the longer-term trend just yet. The good news is that our balance sheet exposure to Alberta is minimal. As of December 31, 2014, 0.4% of Tricon's balance sheet assets were invested in Alberta and 2.6% of balance sheet assets were invested in land and homebuilding projects in Houston.

In our land and homebuilding investment subsidiary now known as Tricon Housing Partners, we have appointed Craig Mode to run the group and promoted him to Managing Director. For those of you who know Craig, I'm sure you'll agree he is wise beyond his years and incredibly capable. I've met very few people who have such a developed sense of business judgment. And so we feel very comfortable with Craig in his new role, and believe he has the ability to take our land and homebuilding business to yet another level.

It's important for everyone to know that we've been planning for this for the better part of 18 months and so feel confident that the transition will be seamless. We obviously feel very good about our 68.4% investment in THP1 US, formerly Tricon IX. When we made the acquisition in August of 2013, the Canadian dollar was nearly at par which shows that sometimes it is better to be lucky than smart. With that said, in 2014 alone THP1 US accounted for the sale of 409 homes and lots, produced $33 million of income on a CAD 260 million investment and distributed $50 million of cash to Tricon, $72 million when including the 2013 stub year.

The total amount of cash distributed in Q4 2014 was actually lower than expected, which in turn resulted in an elevated net investment income for the quarter. With Faria Preserve expected to be under contract by the end of Q1; and Vida, our second condominium project in the San Francisco portfolio nearing completion, we continue to believe that THP1 US will produce CAD 300 million of free cash for Tricon over 2014 to 2016 with potentially a disproportionate amount of that cash flow coming this year. Again, the high level of distributions will reduce our investment balance and the concomitant amount of income from Tricon Housing Partners unless the cash is reinvested. So we do expect to see investment income from THP1 US to decline considerably in 2015 as the partnership distributes cash.

Our current pipeline of new U.S. land and homebuilding projects remains at approximately CAD 500 million. Given that we believe we're still in the early innings of the recovery and that there's no shortage of attractive opportunities in the U.S., we would expect to replace some, if not, most of the investment burn-off in the coming quarters with new investment activity.

At Tricon American Homes, our single-family rental investment subsidiary, we are proud to report that we are now fully integrated across our 11 markets. We also reached our publicly stated goal of owning 5,000 homes by the end of 2014, slightly ahead of schedule and are in advanced stages of the securitization process. Jon Ellenzweig and his team at Tricon American Homes deserve praise for delivering on some ambitious targets in 2014, particularly the internalization and [indiscernible] (19:50) implementation are positioning us for solid growth ahead.

In terms of operating results, our 2014 NOI increased 120% year-over-year to CAD 30.7 million as a result of maintaining operating margins to 63% and increasing in-place Occupancy by 6%. On a total portfolio, they grew by 1,700 homes over the course of the year.

Going forward, we expect to maintain our margins and in-place Occupancy as we add 400 homes to 500 homes per quarter. In Q4 2014, NOI was $7.1 million with normalized NOI expected to be closer to $8.5 million, which would translate to a margin of nearly 67%. The difference arises from the timing related to the recognition of expenses incurred earlier in the year.

If we decided to put our [ph] pens (20:38) down and stop buying, we believe we could achieve occupancy of roughly 95% as that is what we are seeing in our more mature markets. We also believe we will be able to improve in-place Occupancy in our Charlotte and Southeast Florida markets as we continue to renovate homes into more portfolio in Charlotte and convert some Section 8 tenants to market rate leases in Florida.

Hypothetically, if we were to assume that acquisition stop today at 5,000 homes and we operated at 95% stabilized occupancy across all markets, our run rate NOI would be closer to $36 million. As June discussed earlier, we are currently preparing for securitization. The typical timeline for first-time issuers is between nine months to 12 months to complete all the required steps, which is probably something we should have communicated to the market several quarters ago. In any event, we are currently in the advanced stages of this process and aiming for completion in Q2 2015. So, all in all, Tricon American Homes remains on track from a financial and operational point of view and we remain optimistic that we will hit our longer-term volume NOI and total return targets.

At Tricon Lifestyle Communities, our entrance into the manufactured housing community business, we are focused on building an acquisition pipeline and purchasing parks. As of today, we own one park in Phoenix, the 314 pad Longhaven Estates, and have another 200 pad under contract in Apache Junction which is just east of Phoenix.

We expect the Apache Junction park to close at the end of Q1 or in early Q2. Our pipeline is currently about CAD 100 million and we expect to be able to acquire one park to two parks per quarter before considering the possibility for portfolio acquisitions that we'll come up from time to time.

So far, we feel really good about the [ph] MET (22:23) business and operating fundamentals, but the challenge of building scale is as expected. With that said, we intend to remain disciplined and maintain our initial acquisition plan of purchasing three star parks to four star parks primarily in the U.S. sunbelt region. We have no intention of chasing yield and we remain focused on patiently building an institutional quality portfolio of parks. So to recap, 2014 was a very positive year for Tricon. With much of the heavy-lifting related to strategy formation, industry research and partner identification behind us, we are very well-positioned to continue to grow in each one of our business verticals. In the more immediate term, we remain focused on securitizing our single family rental portfolio, liquidating THP1 US, and forming a successful U.S. housing fund. And so we expect the first half of 2015 to continue to be busy.

With that, I will pass the call back to the operator and open the line up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Stephen MacLeod. Your line is open.

Oh, great. Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Steve.

Just wanted to follow-up on Johnson. Can you just explain a little bit why it was so strong in the quarter, and what are your fee expectations for 2015?

Yeah. Sure. We had a great quarter partly because sales that should have taken place earlier in the year, lot sales and commercial pad sales, actually incurred in Q4 because of – you probably remember, there were some bad weather last year in Q1 and Q2 and that deferred some of the closings. So that explains, I think, why we had – partly explains why we had such a good quarter. But as I said on the call, we have seen sales of Johnson communities down 25% year-over-year at active communities. And if you extrapolate that, it's not entirely – I don't think it'd be farfetched to say that we could see Johnson income down 25% this year, in 2015, but we would still view that as a very good year in relation to our acquisition price.

Okay. That's great. And then just turning to Tricon American Homes, you had a large fair value adjustment. I understand that's entirely because of the BPO opinion?

No. It's actually both the entire portfolio. Half of the portfolio is revalued under the BPOs and did create an increase in the portfolio. But the overall fair value is contributed from the entire portfolio.

Okay. But I guess was the BPO portion an outsized fair value adjustment relative to the rest of the portfolio?

Well, a half of it came from the BPO with the other half coming from the AUM and increase – the AVM increase with a total overall portfolio increase of 11%.

Okay. And then – so as you roll the other homes into a BPO valuation in Q1, would you expect also a similarly large fair value adjustment?

We would expect a similar adjustment to the Q4 adjustments in Q1, that's when we will value the balance of the portfolio.

Okay, great. And then, just finally, so just on a higher level, like, does the strengthening U.S. dollar impact at all your ability to grow in the U.S., or are your distributions and investments mostly matched on the U.S. side?

No. I mean, we don't think it as any impact. The distributions that we're receiving, for example, from THP1 US, we intend to largely reinvest in the United States and we're seeing tremendous growth opportunities in all our verticals right across the board. So we don't think it has any impact at all.

Okay, great. And then – sorry, one just last one. Gary, I missed your commentary around the Tricon American Homes. Do you still view the ability to get to 10,000 homes, and what are your NOI expectations for 2015 and 2016?

Yeah. I mean, we are intent now of basically doubling the portfolio. And again, we think we'll do that by continuing to do 400 homes to 500 homes per quarter. So that should take us roughly two, two-and-a-half years to double the size. So that remains the focus.

I'd expect NOI margins to be roughly the same at roughly 63% where we finished for the year. Again, I think it's important not to look at quarter NOI margins, you have to look it on a run rate for 12 months. Our NOI – if you look at the run rate NOI today, it's about $36 million, and, obviously, we're seeing some rent increases of about 3% per annum. So I think we're in very well – we're at very good position on the existing portfolio, but we seek an opportunity to be able to continue to grow it.

Great. Okay. That's it from me. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan. Your line is open.

Hi. Just – on the single family rental side of the business, I mean it seems the fundamentals in the industry are pretty good [ph] seeing that (27:53) some M&A transactions, but, also, specifically, the data seem to suggest stronger rental demand and arguably above-average rental increases. Just wanted to get your comments on if you guys are seeing those same types of trends in your various markets.

Yeah. I mean, we're having obviously no issue renting up our homes, and in general we're being able to increase our rents by roughly 3%. I've heard some of our competitors are a little bit higher than that, Geoff, but I think what's more important is to focus on occupancy, let's say, than trying to drive rent increases. But there's no question that there is incredibly strong demand for single family rentals.

Okay. In terms of – on the spring housing season, you've talked already about the Texas market. But can you talk about how things are going in some of the other key geographies in your portfolio?

Sure. Early indications for the spring selling season is that it's going to be strong. And I think part of that is clearly driven by lower gas prices, which has created a lot confidence. It's basically – and puts a tax cut that is making Americans feel, I think, good about things and it's encouraging them to come off the sidelines.

So we actually expect, across the board, all markets to be stronger obviously with the exception of Houston. But I would tell you that even if – and we don't know where it's going to end up, but even if Houston sales are down, let's say, 20% or Houston starts building activity are down 20% year-over-year, it'll probably still be the strongest market or top one, two market in the U.S.

So Houston has gone from red hot to being hot and the other markets are getting stronger.

Okay. Last question I had was on the BPO. Can you remind me, does that method then take into account kind of the renovations and the rehab that you do for the units? Because I think that was one of the drawbacks on the AVM models. And then, specifically around the ones that you did the BPOs in Q4, are you able to kind of say where these generally some of the newer homes versus older homes and various geographies in which these were done?

Yeah. Non-implicitly. I mean, the appraiser does not go into each home and specifically evaluate the renovation, but they do take into account, as June said on the call, the average renovation for that market. So if we were at a situation where we renovated to a higher standard in theory, we wouldn't get the full renovation – we wouldn't get the full credit for a renovation.

But they are taking into account renovations, but they are not specifically looking at our renovations. I will tell you that, from what I understand, we are probably spending more on renovations as a percentage of our purchase price than all, if not, most of our competitors. So maybe we're not getting the full value of that, but we're certainly getting some of that.

Okay. And then just on the homes that were – had the BPOs done in Q4, just kind of some color on geography, ages of when you bought those homes?

Yeah. The 2,400 homes that were BPO-ed are, I think, a broad representation of the entire portfolio of – oh, it's 7? [indiscernible]

(31:18).

Yeah. So it's 7 of the 11 markets and the other four markets will be done in Q1. But of these seven markets, I would say a broad representation of that geography and certainly the age of homes.

Okay. In terms of age of homes and I was referring to the date that you purchased it as opposed to the actual date, age of home. Is that still true then? In other words, they were kind of – I'm making sure of homes that had you bought since day one through today as opposed to...

Yes. Yes.

...being done as a bunch [indiscernible] (31:46) the ones that you had bought a couple of years ago type of thing?

Correct. That's correct.

Okay, perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning.

Hi, Jon.

First, just on the securitization. Just to clarify, do you expect to do a securitization in Q2 or complete the steps in Q2 and do a securitization later in the year?

No. At this point we expect to achieve it in Q2.

Okay. That's good. And then, secondly, just on the Faria Preserve, I guess, it looks like you guys have that under contract. Is that – was that – the price you got for that, is that reflected in the fair value gains that you recorded in Q4 for THP1? Or is that something that – a gain that we'll see in Q1?

Hi, Jonathan. It's June. Yeah, the fair value adjustment has been accounted for in Q4. So we don't expect any material bumps from what's already there.

Okay. That was – most of my other questions were answered. I'll turn it back. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Dean Wilkinson. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Dean.

Gary, I just want to make sure I'm clear around the TAH homes metrics. So, fair value, CAD 680 million, I guess that implies about just shade over CAD 135,000 a door. So would that be fair to look at sort of the CAD 117,000 per door all-in cost plus the 14% capital appreciation get sort of pencils us into that number?

Yeah. That sounds about right.

That's about right. Okay. And then the average monthly rent on [ph] 1139 (33:46), if you maintain that 63% margin, it looks like that that valuation backs into about a 6.3%, 6.4% cap rate on the portfolio, is that fair?

Sounds about right, yeah.

Okay. So that's clear to me. Then, looking towards the securitization, should we still be thinking 75% loan-to-value, at that level?

No. I'd say that's on the high end. I think we're probably going to come in close to the 70%, which is more in line with the market.

70%. Okay. So on that CAD 680 million – so you're looking in that high CAD 400 million up to CAD 500 million securitization package?

No. No. I would say CAD 400 million would probably be the upper limit.

CAD 400 million is where you're going to go to?

Yeah. Yeah.

Okay.

Probably a little lower than that, Dean.

All right. And then you've got CAD 320 million debts existing against what's already there?

Correct.

Put us at CAD 80 million. So that puts you at acquisition capacity post-securitization somewhere in the CAD 200 million range, roughly?

Yeah. Yeah. Sounds about right.

About right. Okay. And then you're still seeing acquisitions in that sort of sub CAD 100,000 per door or has that come up?

Yeah. I would say we're probably all-in a little higher than that. I would say all-in acquisitions are moving closer to CAD 115,000, CAD 120,000.

All right. So that would put you in the area of – that's going to finance another 2,000 homes at least.

Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if we do securitize, the plan would be that there would be another follow-on securitization later.

Okay. Post. And that would be a 2016 event probably?

Possibly.

Possibly. Okay. That's great. And then, just to make sure that I'm clear, you are going to start reporting in U.S. dollars effective Q1 of...

Correct.

...2015. The shares are still going to trade in CAD though, right?

Correct.

And you're still going to pay the distribution in CAD?

Correct.

Okay. That's great. That's all I had. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just a quick follow-up on the math here. So I think, Gary, you mentioned that on a run rate basis for the 5,000 homes that you currently own, the NOI is about $36 million?

Yeah, U.S.

Yeah. That's U.S. Okay.

Yeah. That'd be for 95% occupancy.

Okay. All right. So if I take that $680 million of fair value, which is in U.S. dollars, that would imply about a $5.3 billion cap?

Right. Yeah. But that's on fair value. I mean, we got – you could look at it more in cost as well.

Okay. So just on that point, like, if you look at where we are in terms of when you're making the acquisition, would you say that the highest value or the highest – like who is the highest buyer now? Would it be the cash flow buyers or would it be the end-user market? Because we have seen a few portfolio transaction, it looks to be in kind of in the $5 billion or low $5 billion cap rate. But just kind of wondered your thoughts to when you compare where you can maximize value if you were to exit, who would be that – how would you go about doing it?

Well, I mean, we have no intention to exit at this point. Your question is, will we get higher value if we would undertake a retail liquidation strategy versus selling it as a portfolio, I think that's your question?

Yes.

It's hard to say. It's hard to say because you have to take into account – if you did a retail liquidation strategy, it'd obviously take a lot of time to do that and you have to take into account the cost of doing that in terms of commissions. And, obviously, you would have to take into account taxes, which is one of the things that June talked about in her commentary in terms of the exit strategy.

I would say – and again, this is based on a change in our tax analysis. I would say, if we were to exit, we would be more likely to exit through a portfolio sale. And certainly, we've got some strong and well-capitalized competitors that are certainly out there looking for portfolios.

Yeah. And the change in the characterization of the income for tax purposes, would that actually sort of prevent you from selling on a retail basis or...

No, it wouldn't.

...or that doesn't really impact it at all?

No. It wouldn't impact our strategy at all.

Okay.

It would impact the tax potentially, but it would not impact the strategy.

Yeah. And then, just switching to the fund, the first close that you would expect on your U.S. fund, I think you had mentioned before that a $350 million fund would be a good target. Is that still – are you still on track there?

Yeah. I mean, I think we said $300 million before. But yeah, I mean, we are – we can't comment anymore, specifically on the interest or level of commitments. But that is something we're hopefully still going to shoot for.

Okay. And sorry, just going back to the Tricon American Homes. So, on an individual basis, as you acquire and continue to acquire assets, you're still achieving – what would be the cap rate that you'd be able to [indiscernible] (39:22)?

Yeah. I mean, again, so we needed – there's been some comments on this call. I mean, obviously, you have to distinguish between an NOI cap rate and a net yield. They're obviously different because there's items below the NOI line like leasing commissions and CapEx and our asset management fees. So, there is a difference between, I think, the net yield and cap rate. But we are still targeting 7% cap rate, and we're still achieving those. And again, that's on an underwritten basis. That assumes 95% occupancy.

Great. Okay. Lastly, on Faria, I know you can't say much about it, given that it's not under contract yet. But, I guess, based on what you've said, is it safe to assume that the sale price is within your budgeted expectation?

Yeah. That's correct. And that's all I can say.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks.

Great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Wojtek Nowak. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning. It's Wojtek here. Firstly, I believe you mentioned a 15% increase in salaries and benefits for this year. I just wanted to confirm that and kind of get an understanding of where you're going to be [indiscernible] (40:41)?

Sure. Yes. That's the expectation, Wojtek, of what we know today. We've done a fair amount of hiring, as we mentioned, in 2014 including hiring four senior members of our team. Some of their salaries are comp or prorated for 2014, so obviously, when we go into 2015, that will be higher.

In terms of expectations of future hiring, we probably need to hire a few more people, but I think we're largely there. I think we've got a great team and we've positioned ourselves really well for additional growth. But you certainly can't have runaway growth without investing in your team. I think that's something like Packard's Law or something where you have to – ultimately if you want to grow, you also have to invest in your personnel. And then, we do believe that. But I think we've done a lot of that already, and we're very well positioned for future growth.

Fair enough. And I guess, how leverageable is that cost structure? Does it relate to a certain AUM you can reach? And does the mix of AUM have an impact on how much you can leverage it?

That's an interesting question. I would not say – I would say that it's got a high percentage of fixed component to it. I would not say it's variable, I mean these are – with the exception of Johnson, which is obviously included in our consolidated salaries and benefits line, this is really just Tricon corporate or head office staff. And so, I would say that there's not a large variable component to that.

Sounds good. And just moving on to Tricon Lifestyle Communities, curious about the acquisition pipeline there and sort of how – what's Tricon doing to differentiate themselves in the bidding process, given that it does look like a pretty competitive market for acquisition?

Yeah. No, absolutely. There's certainly a lot of competition in the market from privates. And certainly, with interest rates coming down, we've seen some cap rate compression, which has made it even more competitive. Our local operating partner, Cobblestone has got a good reputation in the market. I think that helps differentiate us a little bit. But at the end of the day, it just comes down to price and I think certainly the ability to close with certainty. And so, we obviously try to express that. We try to use our relationships and try to let people know that we can close quickly. But apart from that, as you know, it comes down – a lot of it just comes down to price. And we've been – we want to maintain our discipline in that process.

Fair enough. And...

If I could just add a comment over here as well. As we start closing on more deals, so will our reputation or the expectation of our ability to close increase as well. So that should probably help us grow a little bit faster as we progress.

Okay. Thanks for that. And just lastly, on the lifestyle communities as well, the NOI margin looked pretty good this quarter at about 60%. How should we think of that going forward and sort of considering the acquisition that, I guess, you've got in place or the forthcoming acquisition?

Yeah. I mean, I think that's a good benchmark for today, Wojtek, but it's going to evolve over time. And it's – again, with the NOI margins, it's a little bit like asking how long is a piece of string because, again, there could be a lot of variables. That's what would determine the NOI margin.

For example, whether some of the utilities are passed through, what the level of occupancy in the park is, where the parks are located, some markets have rent control. There could be a lot of different factors that actually affect your NOI margin. So it does depend partly on where you buy the parks. But I would say that if we're buying parks in Phoenix, which is where Longhaven Estates is and the other park that we have in our contract, low-60% is achievable.

Okay. That's it from me. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jenny Ma. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

Hi, Jenny.

Gary, speaking of margins, let's go back to Tricon American Homes. You mentioned that there's 3% rent increases and NOI margin about 63% on a stabilized basis. I wanted to get some color on the operating expense side. So with those two numbers in mind, does it suggest that there's some cost creep that is somewhat commensurate with the rent increases you're seeing?

I'm going to hand it over to Jon.

Sure. And Jenny, I would say on a line – you have to look at it on a line-by-line item. So for example, property taxes are really driven by the municipalities. So in California, there's a regulation that limits the annual property tax increase versus other markets where it's driven on market value, so that's a bit more of a black box in some ways.

Insurance, we've actually seen our insurance costs go down. As we grow, we've been able to negotiate better terms on the insurance side. On average, I would say that maintenance cost are about commensurate with inflation. It's driven by two things, labor and materials. So each of those will have separate drivers. So I would say you really have to look at each line item and model it individually as oppose to taking a one-size-fits-all approach to saying there's going to be 2% or 3% across-the-board increase in expense.

So I guess, what I'm getting at is if we're getting 3% rent increases, does that suggest a little bit of expansion on the NOI margin, going forward, unless the costs are catching up as well?

Yeah...

This is really a higher-level view.

Yeah. Some of the costs are catching up, so yes, there could be room for small amounts of margin expansion. But again, with things like property taxes, that could eat up some of the margin expansions.

Okay. That's fine. Most of my questions have been answered, but my last one is about any update or color on filling your CFO position on a permanent basis.

Short answer would be, no. We are still contemplating that internally. I can tell you that we feel very good about all the new hires we've made, including Wissam Francis and Doug Quesnel, who have really added a lot of strength to our financial accounting group and then, obviously, Sandra Pereira and David Veneziano as well. So we feel we have a great team, but I cannot give you anymore color on that today.

Any sense on a timeframe potentially?

Yeah. I would say we would probably like to have a new CFO in place within about a year from today.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

You have no further questions at this time. I will turn the call back over to you.

Thank you, operator. In conclusion, I would like to thank all of you on this call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in May 2015 when we discuss our results for Q1 2015. And for the analysts that are on the call, we would like to remind everyone that we have an Analyst Breakfast this coming Tuesday, March 17. And we look forward to seeing you then. Thanks very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.