Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President & Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Glenn Watchorn — Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Tricon Capital Third Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded November 14, 2011.

I will now turn the call over to your host David Berman, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Jennifer. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011. I hope you've got the chance to review the news release we distributed earlier this morning. With me today are June Alikhan, our Chief Financial Officer; Gary Berman, President and Co-Chief Operating Officer; and Glenn Watchorn, Co-Chief Operating Officer.

Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible by telephone until November 21. Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks, answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events, and the performance of our limited partnership funds. This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially.

A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our initial public offering prospectus available on SEDAR. I will start with a summary of our third quarter achievements. June will then briefly overview key financial results. After which, I will comment on our outlook and business prospects, and Gary and Glenn will provide some commentary on what we are seeing in the Canadian and U.S. markets in which we operate. We will then be pleased to take your questions.

Assets under management, one of the key metrics for our business, have grown throughout the year, as a result of our fundraising success in Canada as well as favorable exchange rate fluctuations. Our AUM amounted to CAD 962 million as of September 30, 2011, an increase of nearly CAD 110 million from year-end 2010. As we discussed on last quarter's call, we have raised CAD 140 million for our current Canadian fund Tricon XII, which makes it our largest Canadian fund ever. We are also actively involved in discussions with several institutional investors about new commitments to the fund, which has further increased its size. Tricon's AUM and the contractual management fee base and general partner distributions associated therewith.

We are also in a fundraising process for our successor distressed U.S. fund, Tricon XI, and we have recently received an expression of interest for a lead order of CAD 100 million from a law institutional investor. The preparation of the necessary legal documentation will commence imminently, which should facilitate a first close Q1 2012.

While this is one quarter later than previously indicated, the delays are minims to our business operations and, given the extremely difficult fundraising environment, in which all institutional real estate fund managers are currently operating, this delay is not unexpected. The fact that we've been able to secure a large lead order is a testimony to our reputation. The securing of this very meaningful lead order is, I believe, the necessary precursor to our successfully raising balance of the fund which will now occur over the course of 2012.

Before I'll pass the call over to June, I'm very pleased to announce that on November 11, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on December 31. This dividend, which is unchanged from our previous dividend, will be payable on January 13, 2012.

With that, I'll now turn our presentation over to June for a summary of how we performed in relation to our key financial metric.

Thanks, David. Tricon's financial results released earlier today are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS, and are presented in Canadian dollars, unless noted otherwise. Management's discussion and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website and SEDAR. Tricon's net and comprehensive income for the quarter was CAD 993,000, a substantial increase from the CAD 115,000 net income in the corresponding quarter in 2010. As a result, earnings per share for the quarter improved to CAD 0.05 per share, significantly better than the CAD 0.01 per share earned in the corresponding quarter of 2010.

Even though we are very pleased with the large improvement in net income, it remains management's opinion that adjusted EBITDA, adjusted base EBITDA and adjusted net income are more useful metrics for assessing the performance of the company, since these exclude non-recurring and non-cash items, including the significant LTIP-related expense, which as we have continuously discussed in the MD&A which accompanies our financial statements, should not be considered an expense, unless one is prepared to include the revenues or performance fees which need to be earned, if outset is to be paid.

Adjusted base EBITDA for Q3 2011 decreased by CAD 170,000 to CAD 1,089,000 compared to Q3 2010, primarily a result of the upfront formation and operating cost associated on the co-investment in Tricon XII. These expenses are characterized as investment losses in the financial statements and are always incurred in the early years of the fund's life. These losses will always perceive revenue generating investments, and they should be reversed in subsequent years, as the fund starts employing its committed capital. Accordingly, shareholders should expect a similar result in the first year of Tricon XI's life. Thereafter, the investment loss which would be converted into increasing investment income as the funds mature.

Adjusted EBITDA for Q3 2011 was $1,091,000, a decrease of $286,000 when compared to the corresponding period in 2010, primarily as a result of the aforementioned investment losses and the anticipated reduction in performance fees to be earned in 2011 versus 2010. Finally, adjusted net income for Q3 2011 was $592,000, a decrease of $137,000, when compared to the corresponding period in 2010.

In summary, due to the frontloaded formation costs associated with the new fund, which as I previously mentioned are being characterized as investment losses and the delay in the Tricon XI closing, we have experienced a year-over-year decline in our key metrics. Ignoring both these transitory factors, our results are substantially in line with our internal projections and expectations.

I will now turn the presentation back to David.

Thank you, June. In order to provide our shareholders with additional insights on the residential real estate development markets in Canada and the United States, as well as the real estate capital markets, I have invited Gary Berman and Glenn Watchorn to provide some additional commentary. Gary?

Thanks, David. The Canadian housing market on average continues to be extremely strong with Toronto leading the way, although Alberta is still recovering from its 2007 to 2009 downturn, notwithstanding relatively high oil prices. To remind everyone, we are active in Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton and Vancouver. The Canadian housing market in general is being driven by easy access to credit and generationally low mortgage rates, robust immigration. Canada has got the highest immigration in the world at 0.9 per 100 population, and also a generally strong and stable economy.

With that said, macroeconomic headwinds and a global environment of uncertainty is concerning and, therefore, we are really adopting an approach of caution in our asset management and our field selection in Canada. The Tri Continental market where we've allocated roughly 75% of our existing capital in funds VI, VIII and X is RevPAR, and actually under supply. We measure supply to date about seven months, which includes projects that are in premarketing or predevelopment under construction and standing inventory. We typically consider 12 months to be balanced. And as a result of the very low supply, our condo prices, both new and resale. have been increasing about 7% to 8% year-over-year. This is because of the confluence of factors, which are driving demand by keeping supply relatively low.

On the demand side, the Toronto population is growing about 100,000 people per year and of the immigration coming into Canada, 40% plus is coming into the Toronto area, and that's expected to increase in the coming years as the Canadian government is very aware of the dependency ratio issue and plans to ramp up immigration. For example, immigration last year was 280,000 people; the year before that, it was 240,000 people.

So, demand is extremely strong. And for example, this year, it looks like we're going to break the records for condo sales in Toronto roughly 26,000 units. The previous high was 22,000 units in 2007 and it seems like we could sell units, we could sell 50,000 or 100,000 units, we could sell units all day long. The real question is how many units can we actually build. And on the supply side, there are also real constraints. One related to the early boundary that the government has established. Two, with respect to condo supply become increasingly difficult to find sites, and we have real limitations with respect to financing and trade. If you look over the last few years, we've only been able to build about 15,000 units a year, so the real question is just how much can we build going forward.

With that being said, we recognize that this price growth is not sustainable. We expected to moderate over the coming months, over the next 12 to 24 months, and we really do believe that the Toronto condo market and the Canadian housing market, in general, vulnerable to rising mortgage rates, affordability issues and just general investor fatigue.

And as a result of that, we are being extremely selective in our deal selection, and we can afford to do so. We've evaluated really candid of deals [indiscernible] (11:37) Tricon XII, we've been very careful. And now we're in the process of committing to a few deals, one in Burnaby, one in Calgary. And we've committed already one in Toronto. All of these deals are extremely attractive, because of their strong high barrier locations, their under market land bases. We're not looking at deals where we are competing for land. These are situations where developers have been able to get very good deals below market and also because of the targeted business plan. So, we're confident, excited about the new deal flow, but again we're being very cautious and only taking on a very best projects.

One thing that I will remind everyone is that we obviously take a long-term approach when we evaluate these business plans, [indiscernible] (12:21) three to six years to execute. So even though we need to be mindful of quarterly macro-economic trends, the underlying business at the final level is not driven by quarter to quarter events.

So with that, I will hand it off to Glenn to talk a little bit about what we're seeing in the United States.

Thank you, Gary. Well, in contrast to the Canadian market, the U.S. market is experiencing significant difficulties, and this is largely due to the continuing high levels of unemployment, the macro-economic malaise and, of course, that's contributing to the already low consumer confidence. As a result, many qualified buyers are delaying their decisions to purchase homes and either doubling up by living with their parents or remaining in rental accommodations.

And many of those who wish to purchase a new home are finding it difficult to actually obtain credit even though the cost of debt is cheap. Many potential buyers are underwater on their mortgages or have been foreclosed on or have poor credit scores or simply do not have a down payment required due to the currently stricter lending standards. This is ultimately adding to what is pent-up demand in the system.

The resulting low level of current demand and the high levels of inventory due to the overbuilding in the boom years of 2004 to 2006 have led to historically low levels of starts. But it is also led historically high levels of affordability. The average household in the U.S. can now almost afford to carry two median priced homes.

One factor that would almost inevitably reverse this trend is the continuing U.S. population growth. The U.S. has been growing at approximately 1% per annum for the last 50 years, and we expect that to continue. And based on an average of 2.7 people per household and the expected population growth of 3.1 million, the U.S. will require 1.1 million new households every year compared to the current household formation of between 300,000 and 400,000.

The good news relative to these latest trends is that there is job growth in the U.S. and it is providing enough jobs to accommodate the current population growth. It simply has to grow at a faster pace to lower the current unemployment rate. Also the housing inventory has come down significantly over the last 12 months, retail inventory is getting closer to an equilibrium of supply and demand and the foreclosure inventory has come down dramatically in the last year.

Once the U.S. housing market has reached normalized supply and demand levels which we're expecting in 2013, starts and pricing should begin to rise again, due to the annual demand from population growth, and of course the additional pressure from the pent-up demand.

Due to the confluence of negative events over the last few years in the U.S., we actually believe that U.S. is in an inverse bubble, and with the continuing macroeconomic peers which will eliminate much of our competition, we're in an opportune position to capitalize on the inherent distress in the market.

We've been seeing a higher level of quality deal flow, we've been able to purchase land at significant discounts, the peak values and in many cases well below the replacement cost of [indiscernible] (15:53) improvements. And ultimately, we are financing land today at distressed pricing to provide for housing demand three to five years from now, when we believe the market will again be healthy.

It's also important to remember that the latest boom – in the latest boom-bust years, the U.S. housing market had been operating more nationally. However, historically, performance vary significantly from region to region based on industry drivers. This is very much how the market is functioning today, and we're focusing only on those markets where we see the highest growth potential. As an example of this, probably the highest growth markets in the U.S. right now are the San Francisco Bay Area, largely due to the high-tech industry; and Texas, largely due to energy. And we've been very active in both of these markets dealing with best-in-class developers on extremely attractive transactions.

So, in summary, I'm very excited about our opportunities in the U.S.

Thank you, Gary. Thank you, Glenn. Overall, I'm extremely satisfied with the progress that Tricon has made during the quarter and over the course of 2011. We have raised our largest Canadian fund ever and are poised for a closing of our new U.S. fund. We've also continued to meet prospective investors for both funds, investors who seem to have a strong interest in our investment strategy and have confidence in our ability to execute. I expect that these meetings will translate into additional commitments in the quarters to come.

Unfortunately, although we are close to fully executing the business plan that we laid out during our initial public offering, Tricon stock price has trended steadily downwards since going public. And in my opinion, the current price does not reflect the underlying value of our business. On any given day, once you subtract the cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet, our company has been valued a $15 million to $25 million, [ph] a mere (17:54) three times to four times multiple on a trailing 12 months base EBITDA. I'm a firm believer in Tricon's prospects and I'm confident that this capital market disconnect will wane over time.

Our management team continues to own nearly 40% of Tricon's shares, and most of the remaining 60% is held by large institutions, whom we believe see the long-term value of Tricon's business.

Fifth, as we expect, we raised our new U.S. fund and fully execute our business plan, there should be continued bottom line growth, which should produce significant value for our shareholders. With a CAD 0.24 annual dividend in place, shareholders have been provided with a very meaningful current yield while we grow our business.

We will now be pleased to respond to any questions you might have. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Stephen Boland. Please state your affiliation and proceed with your question.

Hi. GMP Securities. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, Steve.

I guess just if you could just talk about your past experience with fundraising, I guess currently where does this rate in terms of raising money from institutional pension accounts and things like that? Is this one of the toughest environments that you've seen over the past 10, 20 years?

Yes, this is definitely one of the toughest environments. I can't afford the exact number of funds in the marketplace at this particular point in time. I think they're already [indiscernible] (19:58) 450 funds trying to raise money at this particular point in time. Only 5% have been successful and really what you have is a lot of money sitting on the sidelines, but nobody really prepared to pull the trigger.

Typically though it's always taken us anywhere from 12 to 18 months to raise a new fund and we're probably now at the rear end of that 18-month program. But again, I think we will position at this particular point in time. It has taken us longer.

You mean the beginning of the...

Sorry?

The beginning of the...

The beginning of the – oh, it's the 12 to 18 month period before you actually get your first commitment. And we're [indiscernible] (20:43) process now. We're pretty close to have it. We expected [indiscernible] (20:46) to have a first close in the first quarter. And thereafter, there is another 12 months, generally, in which you can raise the funds. So it's a slightly longer process. We had hoped to have it done in the second half of this year, the fourth quarter. But I think we're on track to ultimately meet our goal.

Once you get a lead order of that size, you find that there is a herd sort of mentality that tend to get a bunch of small orders quickly right after?

I think those are yours words, not mine. But nevertheless, yes, there is chance to be – effectively what are these smaller funds really need to have confidence that one of the larger funds which has the ability to do the due diligence is comfortable going into it and then the orders start to follow.

Okay. And just your comments on the condo markets, especially in Toronto, there's been a lot of press about that. There is – I think you addressed a lot of that in your commentary there, possible signs of a bubble. What is the biggest concern you do have especially with the Toronto condo market in general?

Steve, hi. It's Gary. I would say that the biggest concern I have is one, affordability. As I mentioned in my overview, prices have been pushed up 8% year-over-year. We're getting to a situation on many buildings where the rental economics don't make sense. So that means the concern is that, obviously, a lot of investors are buying units. That's not necessarily a bad thing in itself, because the condo product very much aligns to sell to investors. Most people don't know where they are going to be in four years. They're not going to make that type of purchase decision in four years' time. So it is a product that [indiscernible] (22:42) to investing.

The other thing I would add is that we do not produce special purpose rental product in any significant amount in the city or in Canada for that matter and we need to. In the U.S., there are REITs and other institutions that actually build special purpose rental products. Here, we don't. The way our model works is investors buy the units and rent them out.

So in Toronto, in any given year, we need to probably produce at least 10,000 rental units and those are being produced through condos that are being rented out. So we have to pay attention to the rental economics. That concerns me as we're getting to the point where in many cases, they don't make sense. So that's something we need to pay attention to. And again, you need to pay attention to the investors, like in some cases we start to see investor fatigue. So I think as we go into next year and the year after, I think it's going to be more difficult to sell condos. We'll probably see sales come down.

Okay. That's great. Thanks very much.

[Operator Instructions] There are no further questions at this time. Sir, please continue.

Thank you, Jennifer. In concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in March, when we discuss our results for the fourth quarter of 2011.Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the conference call for today. Please disconnect your lines, and thank you very much for participating.