Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Mark Rothschild — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Stephen Boland — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Tricon Capital Second Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode. But later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, note that this conference is being recorded today August 11, 2001 (sic) 2011 (00:20).

I now would like to turn the conference over to your host Mr. David Berman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011. I hope you've had the chance to review the news release, we distributed earlier this morning.

With me today are June Alikhan, our Chief Financial Officer; Gary Berman, President, and Jonathan Ellenzweig, Vice President. Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible by telephone until August the 18th.

Before we get started, a reminder that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information about future events and the performance of our Limited Partnership [ph] formed (01:13). This information by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in our initial public offering prospectus available on SEDAR.

I will start with a summary of our second quarter achievements. June, will then review our financial results, after which I will comment on our outlook and business prospects. We will then be pleased to take your questions.

Assets under management have continued to grow throughout the year and amounted to CAD 927 million as of June 30, a CAD 75 million increase when compared to the December 31, 2010. The primary reason for this increase has been successful closings of our new Canadian-dedicated fund Tricon XII, which has now raised CAD 140 million. This makes Tricon XII our largest Canadian fund ever and we hope to have further closing throughout the year with the final fund close expected in March 2012.

We are also in the fund raising process for our successor distressed U.S. Fund Tricon XI and continue to achieve positive feedback from our existing Limited Partners. As a result, we believe that we remain firmly on track for a first closing Tricon XI in 2011.

Before I pass the call over to June, I'm very pleased to announce that yesterday August the 10th, our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on September 30th. This dividend which is unchanged from our previous dividends will be payable on October 14th.

With that, I will now turn our presentation over to June for detailed financial analysis.

Thanks, David. Tricon's financial results released earlier today after second quarter ended June 30, 2011. Our results are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS, and are presented in Canadian dollars unless noted otherwise.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website and SEDAR. It should also be noted that the new consolidation standard issued under IFRS 10, which has been adopted by the company changed the rules governing consolidation. This combined with the additional capital commitment raised during the quarter resulted in Tricon XII being accounted for as an associate under IFRS as at June 30, 2011. However, for the period between the initial fund close at March 23, 2011 and June 14, 2011, the investment was accounted for on a consolidated basis.

Tricon's net and comprehensive loss for the quarter was CAD 509,000, a substantial improvement from the CAD 9.287 million loss in the corresponding quarter in 2010. As a result, earnings per share for the quarter improved to negative CAD 0.03, significantly better than the loss of CAD 0.82 per share incurred in the corresponding quarter of 2010.

Even though we are very pleased with the large improvement in net income, it remains management's opinion that Adjusted Base EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income are more useful metrics for assessing the performance of the company, since these excludes non-recurring and non-cash items, including the significant LTIP expense.

Under IFRS, Tricon is required to estimate amounts payable pursuant to the company's long-term incentive plan or LTIP, based on the estimated fair value of assets within each fund managed by the company at each reporting period.

For the quarter under review, the LTIP-related expenses accrued was CAD 1.507 million as compared to an expense of CAD 5.838 million in Q2 2010. However, [ph] LTIP (05:20) performance fees received during the quarter were CAD 119,000 of which 50% was paid to employees under the plan. It should be noted that LTIP payments are only made if and when corresponding performance fees are earned. This is why, it is management's belief that in presenting our quarterly results we adjust our EBITDA to eliminate the impact of these and other similar expenses from the company's earnings.

We have done this, because failure to do so would have resulted in financial statements [indiscernible] (05:50) would not be reflective by the company's prospects. Accordingly, my comments today will be focused on the key metrics of our business.

Adjusted base revenues of CAD 2.842 million for the quarter were CAD 299,000 higher than the corresponding amounts in Q2 2010, primarily as a result of general partner distributions generated by Tricon XII.

Partially offsetting the increase in adjusted base revenues was the CAD 239,000 increase in adjusted base operating expenses from CAD 1.139 million in Q2 2010 to CAD 1.378 million for Q2 2011, primarily a result of one, an increase in salaries and benefits from new hires in the second half of 2010 and the beginning of 2011, combined with normal salary increases. And two, an increase in expenses related to being a public company.

As a result, Adjusted Base EBITDA for Q2 2011 CAD 1.288 million was CAD 98,000 higher than the CAD 1.190 million earned in Q2 2010. Performance fees earned in Q2 2011 were CAD 119,000 versus the CAD 538,000 earned in Q2 2010, very much in line with expectations. As a result adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was CAD 1.347 million, a decrease of CAD 112,000 from the same period in 2010. It should be noted that we are expecting to earn minimal performance fees for the balance of 2011, due to the substantial completion of Canadian syndicated investments and the lag time before the realization of investments in other funds.

That said, the fact that management has been fit to accrue significant LTIP expenses both, in this and previous quarters should be taken as a strong indication that management does expect to earn substantial performance fees in the future from its current funds. A breakdown of the fund is expected to pay performance fees is available in our MD&A. Finally, the Adjusted Net Income for the quarter under review was CAD 681,000, compared to CAD 363,000 for the second quarter of 2010, an increase of CAD 318,000.

In conclusion, our financial results for Q2 2011 have begun to reflect the impact of our new Canadian fund Tricon XII. And we expect that the positive implications of this new fund will be further reflected in our results for the remainder of the year. Tricon remains in a healthy financial position to execute our business plan and to continue paying dividends at the current level.

I will now turn the presentation back to David for his closing remarks.

Thank you, June. I am very satisfied with the financial improvement that Tricon has made during the quarter, primary a result [ph] of our (08:52) fund raising success for Tricon XII.

During Q2 2011, we continue to seek new investments for the uncommitted capital in US distressed fund Tricon IX, and new Canadian fund Tricon XII. In Canada, we continue to limit the funds' investments activity to [ph] prime (09:11) development opportunities in major urban centers and recently issued terms for several well located condominium projects on behalf of Tricon XII.

In the United States, given that the housing market remains depressed on a national basis, we continue to concentrate on distressed investment opportunities in anticipation of a broader housing recovery by 2013. In both, Canada and the United States, notwithstanding disparate nature of the real estate markets in each country, we continue to see robust deal flow. But as I mentioned, we remain very selective in our pursuit of investment opportunities.

In conclusion, I am pleased with the progress that Tricon has made since our initial public offering last May, and believe that we are on target to execute the business plan that we laid out to our investors at that time. Our financial position is strong as are our business prospect. As a result, we expect to continue to grow and prosper through 2011 and beyond, notwithstanding the current uncertainty and volatility gripping the world's financial markets.

We will now be pleased to respond to any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Thank you, Mr. Berman. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will be from the line of Mark Rothschild. Please state your affiliation and proceed.

Hi, Canaccord Genuity. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning, Mark.

Just a couple of questions. In particular if you can expand a little bit maybe this for June. On the general partner distribution related to Tricon XII, maybe talk about how that's – maybe just give me some [ph] understanding (11:02) how that's derived and how that's likely to trend over time in over the next year or so?

Well, as you know, Mark our general partner distributions from Tricon XII are actually not related in any way to performance. And they will be based on what we have raised for the fund and there is within our Limited Partnership Agreement for Tricon XII a formula similar to that existing for the other funds that derives our revenue flow from – based on that formula within the fund's LPA.

This is something that [ph] will (11:51) occur primarily for Canadian funds. And so, it's fairly stable for the time being. It will increase if the fund size increases. And as we go forward probably into the next Canadian fund, again, we'll probably see more general partner distributions with a corresponding reduction in contractual management fees somewhere along the line

Okay. So it will be recurring.

Yes.

Okay. And my other question, maybe you could talk a little bit about the condo projects. [ph] You're going into (12:23) in Canada, what type of projects, what type of returns are you getting and maybe you talk about your view on the Canadian housing market in general.

I'll pass it over to Gary.

Yeah. Hi, Mark. Yeah. We've recently issued terms for a few projects, one in Calgary. Without being too specific, we're looking at really a distress project in Calgary that's very well located, that has the underground completed and it's really a terrific location.

We think the Calgary condo market is starting to turn. There's certainly some evidence recently a new launch and that have been very successful. And really Calgary is probably the last Canadian market to recover from the crisis. So, we think it's a market we want to increase our [ph] rating, investment rating (13:10) in. So we'll see how that goes out in due diligence.

In Toronto, we've issued terms on trying our sites. We're really concentrating on locations that are really transit-oriented. Really, we'll get the benefit of maximum zoning given our locations, and also we'll be buoyed investor demand given that they make sense for apartments. And so those are locations that are really on prime quarters [indiscernible] (13:36) are really the places we want to be.

In terms of return targets, we're looking for returns, gross returns of roughly 18%. Sometimes a little bit higher, but that's what we're targeting and we're fairly confident we can achieve it if the business plans are maintained.

And maybe just one other last question. Have you looked at using more leverage at all with your funds on any of these deals? Interest rates are obviously quite low.

No. I mean, we think it's a fairly [ph] conservative (14:04) position and one we won't use any leverage within the funds. If we use any leverage in the funds, it'd really only be for smoothing our draws, would not be to finance projects. Within the projects, the transaction themselves, we again also tend to be fairly prudent with the amount of leverage we use.

We only put on leverage at a point, where we think the risks in the project have been mitigated. So, for example, construction loans will usually only be incurred once the project is predominantly sold. There's enough sales in plate to take out that loan and the construction [ph] contracts actually partner we lap (14:39).

So it's really a very prudent approach to leverage. If we take on any kind of acquisition or development financing or land loans, we usually want to make sure that we have enough cash reserved within the funds to take out those loans, if those projects were to experience a hiccup.

So, it's our belief that you can really withstand any kind of short-term market [indiscernible] (15:00), if you can limit your debt or put yourselves in a position where you can take out that debt, if there's a problem.

And I think this a lesson that has to be learned from the downturn in the United States, that really you do not want to put any debts on our project until – if success is assured.

Great. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. Our next question will be from the line of Stephen Boland. Please state your affiliation and proceed.

Hi. GMP Securities. Good morning.

Good morning, Stephen.

Good morning.

The first question I guess is just on the management fee margin. I guess what I'm trying to figure out, what is the – your management fees – despite your AUM going up, your management fees are declining, and I'm not sure if it's just a timing issue with the new funds coming on and the old funds rolling off.

You mentioned in your report that you basically charge 1.25% to 2% management fee to the Limited Partners, so. But the average number is coming at around 1%. I guess I'm just trying to model this a little more correctly.

Sorry, Stephen, I think you – may be the easiest way to look it is to combine management fees and general partner distributions. And I think you'll get a better number. That number – we will be – as we go forward, we will be combining two of those.

Okay. That's great. And June, I'll just go back to the LTIP. There was a spike. So, I guess, when your performance in the existing funds does not change, when we see a spike in the LTIP, is that reflective of the new funds that are coming on and that you're accruing for that?

No. The calculation of the LTIP is based on a certain percentage of the fund needs to be committed and the cash flow stream needs to be there in order for LTIP to actually kick in [ph] under (17:09) formula.

So, the spike in LTIP you're seeing is because we had a couple of syndicated investments come on stream and we recognize LTIP on those investments. And because there was no financing in place previously, during the second quarter, the financing for both those syndicated investments were formalized and we felt comfortable therefore accruing the LTIP those syndicated investment.

[ph] And as you can see, (17:40) the returns on those projects really hasn't increased, but the certainty of the returns has. And so until we felt comfortable that the performance fees were going to be earned, we didn't want to accrue the LTIP and we have achieved that certainty in the second quarter.

Okay. That's great. And just last question just on the marketing for the new U.S. funds. I think in the past you've said CAD 400 million to CAD 500 million, perhaps a CAD 100 million close by the end of the year. Is that still accurate and maybe just give us maybe an update on the reception down in the U.S. in terms of the launch of a new fund?

We have been concentrating at the early stages of marketing process on our existing investors. And I think if there's anything that's happening in the U.S. at this point in time, things are taking a little bit longer for investors to make their decision to invest. That said, we are getting very good responses from our existing investors, our expectation is that we will get very positive feedback before the end of this quarter and that we should be in a position to have that closed in this fourth quarter of this year.

Expectation is that it will probably be more than that lower number that you mentioned [indiscernible] (19:07) indicate what it would be and we are still looking for that CAD 400 million to CAD 500 million ultimate closing of the fund, which would take place if the closing takes place in the fourth – closing takes place in the fourth quarter of this year. The final closing would take place in the fourth quarter of 2012, but you will recall that any investments and management fees that we earn are retroactive.

Okay. Sorry, just one last question, I guess, the stock is definitely suffering with the rest of the market. Is there any chance that you would put in a share buyback? It's a question [ph] all the (19:57) shareholders ask.

We have considered that it's something that we review from time-to-time. It is not really our belief or it's not our feeling I would say that that these things are productive in the long run. We believe that our shareholders, they have given us this extra capital to put it to good use which means investing in the new funds and co-investing and enabling us to raise larger funds to actually take a portion of that or even though it might be a very small portion, we're not sure that's what our shareholders actually want of us. But again it's something that we will consider from time-to-time if it's appropriate.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And currently, Mr. Berman, we have no other question. So, I would like to turn the meeting back to you.

Thank you, operator. In concluding, I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation, and look forward to speaking to you in November, when we discuss our results for the third quarter of 2011.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference for today. Once again, we do thank you for participating. And at this time, we ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have yourself a great day.