Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director-Corporate Finance, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Interim Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jimmy Khing Shan — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Tiffany, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Q1 Analyst Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Wojtek Nowak, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, which were shared in the new release we distributed yesterday. Before I turn the call over to Gary Berman, Tricon's President and CEO, I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information about future events and the performance of our business.

This information, by its nature is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent Management's Discussion & Analysis and Annual Information Form which are available on SEDAR. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible until May 20.

With that, I will turn it over to Gary Berman.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. Our prepared remarks this morning will include highlights of our Q1 2015 accomplishments and a discussion of various business verticals. Our new functional and presentation currencies in U.S. dollars, and we recognized that it may take some time getting used to, so as a reminder, all the numbers quoted in this discussion are in U.S. dollar unless otherwise noted.

Q1 2015 was a clean quarter with all business verticals producing results in line or ahead of management's expectations. In fact Q1 2015 adjusted EBITDA $35.9 million was a quarterly record for the company hitting Q4 2014 and up 15% compared to Q1 2014. These results were driven by, one, higher contractual fees in our Private Funds and Advisory business enhanced by the Johnson; and two, continued earnings growth in Tricon American Homes where in-place occupancy hit a new high of 89% and a $24.1 million fair value increase was achieved before deducting any selling costs deemed operator performance fees and non-controlling interest.

The most noteworthy news, however, occurred subsequent to quarter end in our Tricon American Homes vertical with the closing of a 1,385 unit single-family rental portfolio acquisition and the completion of a $361 million securitization transaction, which provides us the liquidity to advance our acquisition strategy while reducing our overall cost of capital. The single-family rental industry has entered the beginning stages of industry consolidation. We've seen an increasing number of portfolios coming to market.

Given our disciplined yield-based acquisition strategy, the purchases of this major single-family rental portfolio is a seminal event for Tricon. It not only accelerates our portfolio growth with stabilized properties, but also indicates clearly to the market that we view single family rental as a long-term business and intend to be a consolidator. This transaction essentially accelerated our acquisition efforts by two quarters with a fully stabilized portfolio and increased our total half home count to over 6,500 properties today. The portfolio selection was strategic and then roughly half the homes are located in existing market Charlotte, San Antonio, and Houston where we are looking to achieve additional scale and already have property management operations in place.

The other half of the homes are in Dallas-Fort Worth and Columbia, South Carolina. Dallas is one of the fastest growing economies in the U.S. and was ranked number one in year-over-year employment with [indiscernible] (03:49employment up 4.4% in 2014, more than double than national average. We've been looking at this market for some time now to establish the presence and build meaningful scale.

Columbia, South Carolina is the state capital and the largest city in South Carolina resulting in a large number of government jobs. In addition, this market can be easily serviced by our substantial Charlotte office, which is an hour and a half away.

The acquisition was very complementary to our existing portfolio in terms of the upfront rehab meaning that the seller was equally as focused on renovating items behind the walls as the aesthetics, as well as tenant underwriting, average rent, [indiscernible] (04:25) net yields. And we expect it to result in a substantial uptick in Tricon American Homes' realized earnings in Q2.

We were also very pleased with the outcome of our first single-family rental securitization transaction. The way which worth it is, we priced it tightest [ph] 3-months (04:39) at LIBOR Plus 196 basis points. Through this pricing debt investors have validated our acquisition strategy which focuses on yield first, HPA second, and places a strong emphasis on the upfront renovation, so we're not here with deferred maintenance costs.

With that, I will now turn the presentation over to June Alikhan, our Interim CFO, for a summary of our financial and operational performance, and then I will return to provide more detailed commentary on our various business lines. We will then open up the call for questions, at which time I will be joined by David Berman, Wissam Francis, Jon Ellenzweig, Craig Mode, Adrian Rocca and David Veneziano.

Thank you, Gary. And good morning, everyone. The solid earnings of Q1 2015 were a strong start to the year providing a solid base for us to reach our goals and growth initiatives. Let me recap some key highlights from our financials. Our AUM increased by $344 million or 18% to $2.2 billion as at March 31, 2015, compared to $1.9 billion as at March 31, 2014. The separate accounts and side-car investments formed in the latter half of 2014 and the expansion of the Tricon American Homes' single-family rental home portfolio were the primary drivers of the increase.

With the acquisition of 1,385 single-family rental home portfolio closed subsequent to quarter end, our AUM increased to a record high of $2.4 billion, or C$3 billion. The increase in AUM provides the strong base for future growth of contractual fees and the investment income.

Contractual fees increased 92% to $5.4 million, which is the result of the inclusion of Johnson, Contractual Fees of $2.3 million. Excluding Johnson, Contractual Fees increased by roughly 10%, compared to the same quarter in the prior year.

Investment income from Tricon American Homes, increased by 74% to $5.7 million for Q1 2015 from $3.3 million for the same period in 2014. Growth in the number of homes and improved operational performance where the primary drivers of the increase in investment income. The total portfolio at the end of Q1 2015 has grown by 32% to 5,163 homes from 3,905 homes a year-ago. And in-place occupancy increased by 9% to 89% as at March 31, 2015.

In Q1, Tricon American Homes recorded a $24.1 million fair value adjustments before deducting any selling costs deemed operating performance fees and non-controlling interest. We obtained BPO's on 2,257 homes, which increased fair value by $21.8 million. The remaining homes are valued using the Home Price Indexes Methodology or HPI, which is calculated based on the repeat sales model engineered by Core Logic.

The fair value increase of the HPI investment properties was 1.5% or $2.3 million in Q1 2015, compared to the same homes at the end of 2014. At Tricon Housing Partners Investment Income was 12.4 million in Q1, down 40% year-over-year, but ahead of management's expectations. The previous year comparison is partially distorted by a meaningful fair value increase recorded in Q1 2014, when the new home company of THP2 U.S. investments went public. As we have discussed a number of times in the past, Tricon Housing Partners Investment Income is largely determined by the amount of capital outstanding in the underlying funds or products.

As land and homebuilding products naturally liquate the investment base on which we earned income is reduced. With THP1 U.S. in harvest mode, we expect our overall Tricon Housing Partners Income to decline going forward; given that THP1 U.S. formally Tricon 9 currently represents approximately 80% of Tricon Housing Partners' asset value.

THP1 U.S. Co-Investment Income of $11.2 million in Q1, was higher than management's expectations as distributions and closings in the quarter for the San Francisco, Greater East Bay, and Atlanta portfolios were deferred to Q2 and Q3. Since acquiring the 68.4% interest in THP1 U.S. in August 2013, the fund has generated over $84 million of free cash flow for Tricon, of which $12 million was received in the quarter, and we still expect another $300 million to Tricon from Q2 2015 through to 2018.

As a result of these items, adjusted base revenue decreased by $3.5 million or 13% to $24.1 million in Q1 2015. Overall, all our adjusted EBITDA increased by $4.6 million or 15% to $35.9 million for Q1 2015 compared to $31.3 million for Q1 2014. This was primarily driven by fair value gains in the Tricon American Homes portfolio offset by lower adjusted base revenues and higher adjusted operating expenses.

In terms of the operating expenses, it's worth noting that our salaries and benefits increased to $2.7 million for Q1 2015 as a result of the inclusion of Johnson's salaries and benefits. Excluding Johnson's salaries and benefits of $1.8 million, we're in line with management's expectations. We expect the salaries and benefits to be close to $12 million including Johnson's for the 2015 year based on what we know today.

In March, we increased our existing corporate revolving credit facility from $105 million to $175 million to provide us more financial flexibility and additional capacity to achieve our growth objectives. The total amount outstanding on the corporate revolving credit facility at the end of the quarter was $68.8 million.

As Gary discussed earlier, after closing the Tricon American Homes securitization transaction, we received gross proceeds of $361 million, which will be used in part to repay the existing warehoused credit facility on the underlying properties. The excess cash net of fees and amount owed to the non-controlling interest is estimated to be approximately $60 million, which will be returned to Tricon to finance the continued growth of TAH and other corporate purposes.

I will now turn the call back to Gary who will provide additional insight into our Private Funds and Advisory and Principle Investment businesses.

Thank you, June. I'm excited to update you on the progress we're making across our business lines. On the whole, all our business verticals continue to perform in line or ahead of management's expectations and reflect the ongoing recovery of the U.S. housing market.

Let me recap some key highlights of the quarter. In our Private Funds and Advisory business, Tricon's share of adjusted EBITDA from Johnson was roughly $600,000 in Q1 and was lower than management's expectations primarily as a result of projected lot closings at Sienna South in Houston slipping to Q2.

Total new home sales in Houston are much stronger than what we had predicted after witnessing oil prices essentially get cut in half. At Johnson's master planned communities, sales declined in January but have accelerated since then with home sales in February and March increasing sequentially by 29% and 61% respectively. We continue to believe that income from Johnson will be down in 2015 compared to 2014 but not necessarily materially and when viewed in the context of our acquisition price, will come in at a very healthy level.

Given that we're reporting to you live from Houston today, we thought it would be helpful to discuss the market in a little more depth as we continue to get questions about the economy and our local performance. Although currently we do not have a material exposure in Houston on our corporate balance sheet, we are excited about the opportunities in this market. As you're aware, Tricon is focused on geographies with large growth opportunities and strong housing fundamentals, which typically correlate with a healthy job market.

Houston is the fourth most populous city in the U.S. and is one of the fastest growing cities attracting a young and educated population. The city continues to add approximately 100,000 people per year, a growth trend that started long before oil prices started heading higher. Since 1980, Houston's workforce has doubled from 1.4 million to about 3 million today. Interestingly, the resource extraction industry has only added 21,000 jobs during this time.

Houston is one of the fastest growing job markets with 2.9% year-over-year growth in payrolls as of March versus the national average of 2.3%. Its unemployment rate stands at 4.2% versus 5.4% in the U.S. as a whole. In the past year alone, Houston created 82,500 new jobs. That represents over 40,000 new housing units needed to accommodate the growing workforce, although we would not be surprised to see job growth slow down or moderate later this year. It's also important to note the job growth in Houston is highly diversified and goes well beyond the energy sector. Upstream resource extraction makes up less than 5% of the job market and accounted for just 5,500 new jobs over the past year.

The largest job sector is trade, transportation and utilities, which accounts for 20% of all jobs and nearly 16,000 new jobs in the past year. This includes the Port of Houston to the east of the city center, which is the largest U.S. port in terms of both import and export tonnage. The port is linked to a $15 billion petrochemicals complex that makes Houston the largest manufacturing center in the U.S. Manufacturing accounts for over 250,000 jobs spanning petrochemicals, metal products and machinery and is a beneficiary of the lower gas prices.

There are two other industries to mention that are attracting highly skilled knowledge workers. One is the healthcare and biomedical sector, which includes about 200 hospitals, clinics and research facilities employing over 300,000 professionals. In the center of Houston, the Texas Medical Center is the largest medical complex in the world treating 7 million patients annually and employing over 100,000 professionals. The second industry of note is aerospace. HOUSTON is home to Johnson Space Center, one of NASA's largest R&D facilities located to the southeast of the city and a magnet for some of the brightest minds in science and engineering.

In addition, about 40% of Houston's jobs relate to diverse fields that support these core industries, including business and professional services, 16%; leisurely and hospitality which is 10% of the workforce; and government, 13%. All in all, we view Houston as a growing area and we are excited to be part of this very large and attractive housing market.

Turning back to our Private Funds and Advisory business. With regards to our THP3 US fund, at this time, we have no additional news to report on fundraising. But we are still targeting a first close later this year. That being said, we continue to have a very strong pipeline of deals as we see great opportunities in the U.S. for-sale housing market. We also have multiple ways to finance this deal flow including separate accounts and side-cars, which as we have said before, are becoming a more important part of our Private Funds and Advisory business.

In our Tricon Housing Partners business, the formal marketing process for Faria Preserve and THP1 US continued in Q1 2015 and a purchase and sale agreement was executed with a buyer on April 1. While the sale process has a number of conditions that must be satisfied prior to closing, the buyer is actively engaged with local consultants and Tricon's local development partner. We expect the conditions to be satisfied in Q2 2015 with a closing occurring shortly thereafter.

Vida, the second condominium project in THP1 US' San Francisco portfolio, was completed in Q1. And with 109 units out of 114 units sold, we expect a material amount of distributions in Q2 and Q3 from the project. In fact, subsequent to quarter-end, San Francisco portfolio distributed $31 million to the limited partnership's investors and Tricon received approximately $21 million of this amount.

At Tricon American Homes, we intentionally slowed down our acquisition program in Q1 knowing that we would need to absorb the 1,385-unit portfolio acquisition in April. As such, we only purchased 133 homes in the quarter but in the process, gave ourselves time for the leasing activity to catch up leading to a record high in-place occupancy of 89%.

As we've said numerous times, if we put our pens down and stopped acquiring homes; we believe we could achieve stabilized occupancy level of 95%. In fact, if we exclude homes that are out of service for rehab, our portfolio occupancy is roughly 95%. Net operating income for Tricon American Homes increased to a record $8.8 million in Q1. We continue to see very healthy demand for our properties and have been able to increase rents on new move-ins by 5%, renewals by just under 3% for a blended average of 4%.

On a run rate basis and this excludes the recent portfolio acquisition, quarterly NOI is $10.8 million based on 95% occupancy and 1.6% bad debt expense, which represents approximately a 7% cap rate on our all-in cost and an implied cap rate of nearly 6% based on the fair market value of our portfolio in Q1.

Our Q1 NOI margin of 63% was consistent with the year of 2014. But obviously it depends on seasonality and geographic mix. NOI margin on its own should not be taken as a measure of assessing operational performance as the margin differs state by state. For instance, states like Texas and Florida, which don't charge income tax, have significantly higher property tax rates. As well, we are required to carry wind and earthquake insurance in certain submarkets. All of these factors have a negative impact on margin but have nothing to do with the quality or efficiency of our operations.

With our inaugural securitization complete, we are now working on refinancing our existing warehoused facility in an effort to continue to lower our cost of capital and improve our return on equity and position ourselves for longer-term growth.

Lastly, as we build out a long-term business in single-family rental, we continue to evaluate new markets for expansion. Including the recent acquisition, we are now in 13 markets and are researching another half a dozen predominantly in the Southeast U.S. where there continue to be good buying opportunities. So all in all, Tricon American Homes remains on track from a financial and operational point of view and we remain optimistic that we will hit our longer-term volume, NOI and total return targets.

Moving on to Tricon Lifestyle Communities. Subsequent to quarter-end, we're in the process of closing on another acquisition called Apache Junction which is located east of Phoenix and we'll own 506 pads, 314 in Longhaven and 192 in Apache Junction. Our pipeline remains at approximately $100 million and we remain focused on acquiring one to two parts per quarter before considering portfolio opportunities that will come up from time to time.

So in conclusion, we are pleased with the progress we are making in our various housing verticals and our bid to establish ourselves as a leading diversified housing brand.

With that, I will pass the call back to the operator to take questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning.

Hey, Geoff.

First question I had was with respect to the single-family rental acquisition that you guys did, I think that you guys were going to take on some of that purchase price and debt at the corporate level. And I was just wondering what's the kind of the plans in terms of a debt that is being held at the corporate level. Like, would you use some of the SFR securitization proceeds to pay that down or would you look at maybe having kind of a certain level of debt as a little bit more permanent in the capital structure?

The plan is to use the proceeds from the securitization transaction and that proceeds which are approximately $60 million to pay down the credit facility, Geoff. And the credit facility is really a revolving facility and that's what we expect to use it for. We do not expect it to be a permanent source of capital to finance our businesses.

Okay.

And with respect to leverage, our preference is really to keep a fairly clean balance sheet. Our leverage at the corporate level today is below 20% and we're comfortable with it at that level.

Okay, perfect. The other question is a little bit two-part was, as you mentioned in the first quarter, your pace of buying was slower just because of dealing with the securitization transaction. Do you think that kind of going forward at least the visibility that you've got right now, that pace would kind of go back to what you were doing last year, kind of give or take around 400 houses a quarter type of thing or might it be a little bit higher, a little bit lower?

Yeah, no, we slowed down the pace in Q1 really to focus on the portfolio acquisition, not securitization. And that's why we only acquired about 130 homes in Q1. And in Q2, you should expect very little acquisitions. We're really focused right now on integrating the 1,385-unit portfolio. That's going very well, but we want to absorb that. And then we'll return to normal buying really in Q3. And we'll continue to buy about 400 homes per quarter going forward at that point.

Right. Sorry, I meant the acquisition. And then the other part of my question and the last one I had was – I know you've talked about renegotiating on the credit facility on the Tricon American Homes side. If you assume that your facility stays where it's at and you don't do anymore kind of securitizations, how big are you looking to maybe get the portfolio in terms of the number of homes and then over what timeframe would that be? Would that be kind of over a couple of years? Just wanted to get some thoughts on that.

On the Deutsche Bank warehoused facility for single-family rental with the pay-down from securitization, we now have about $160 million, I would say, outstanding on the credit facility. So we've got a fair amount of room to keep on going. And I think with that, we can get towards or closer towards 10,000 homes. That's really our longer-term goal. I don't want to go beyond that at that point, but 10,000 is what we're focused on. And I think in terms of the time to achieve that, if you assume 400 homes per quarter; you're talking two years to three years.

Okay. And that 10,000 is inclusive of the acquisition that you guys just did?

Correct.

Okay, perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher with TD Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks. Just sticking with the Tricon American Homes. You commented that you're starting to see more portfolios of rental homes for sale. And I guess the one you just bought almost perfectly fit your model. Are any of the ones you're seeing similar to that?

Yeah, there are a lot of portfolios out there. They're typically not as large as the one we just acquired. They could be 50 units or 200 units. And obviously, not all of them fit our characteristics, but there are some. So we think as a source going forward, it's not just going to be onesies and twosies. We will be able to take down 50-unit or 100-unit portfolios here and there.

The thing that really matters to us from an underwriting perspective when we're going after portfolios is obviously the tenant underwriting, to make sure the tenants were vetted properly and also the upfront renovation. And one of the things we felt really comfortable with this portfolio acquisition is the private equity company we bought it from really came from a construction or homebuilding background very similar to us. And they had a high and consistent standard of renovations across the portfolio and focused really just as much behind the walls, as I said, as the aesthetics and that's incredibly important. Otherwise, if you buy portfolios that aren't renovated properly, you're going to be inheriting a lot of future maintenance and CapEx.

Okay. And, I guess, just switching gears a little bit. On the Faria Preserve and Vida, looks like you have more certainty and you just said you're going to get $21 million in Q2. Can you maybe give us a ballpark of what you'd expect in terms of distributions over the balance of the year or I guess over and above that $21 million assuming that Faria Preserve closes?

Yeah. So for the balance of the year, we're expecting roughly $100 million of distributions and the lion's share of that would come from Faria Preserve and Vida.

Okay. Does that include the $21 million?

Yes, it does.

Okay. And then just finally, and I know you can't really talk about THP3. But if you compare the fundraising environment now versus when you were last out raising funds for THP2, how would you compare those two?

I would say it's similar. It remains very difficult to raise equity funds for land and homebuilding. I'd like to say for us it's probably never been less difficult, but it's still very difficult. The reason is that most institutions just do not consider land and homebuilding to be real estate and they don't necessarily have a bucket for it and it'll turn into private equity. So as a result, there is not a large amount of institutions out there that can allocate money towards land and homebuilding. If you can raise the capital as we have and we've been probably as successful as anybody in doing so, you obviously have a huge advantage because there's very little institutional competition coming into the land and homebuilding sector in the U.S. And that's why we continue to see such good return opportunities.

Okay. And would you look for the first close of that in – should we think about it in terms of Q3 or Q4?

I can't give you anymore color on that unfortunately.

Okay, thanks. I'll turn it back.

Your next question comes from the line of Stephen MacLeod with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning.

Hi, Stephen.

With respect to the securitization and your goal to get to 10,000 homes, do you foresee the need for another securitization down the road in order to fund that or is that just sort of organic or on an ongoing basis funded with your credit facility?

Yeah. It's just organic. Obviously, at this point in time, if you look at our leverage; on a loan-to-value basis in Q1, we're under 50%. So we can continue to ramp it up. So I think it's just organic growth. We obviously will probably – we will be looking at another securitization, nothing this year. But I think the securitization, more than releasing capital for us at this point, is just going to lower our cost of capital.

Right. Okay, great. And then on the TLC facility that you bought in Apache Junction, is that already closed?

No, it's in escrow. There are still some financing requirements that still need to be met with the lender, but it's in the process of closing.

Okay. And in terms of funding, will you use sort of a similar funding that you did for Longhaven Estates?

Correct. I think the leverage will be a little bit lower. Longhaven was 75% and I would expect it to be closer to 65%. But otherwise, the characteristics of the acquisition are similar to Longhaven.

Right. Okay, that's great. And then in terms of the distributions you expect from THP1 US, are most of those then coming from Faria and Vida or are there other projects that are being liquidated as well?

No, it's just this year that we expect, as I said in the previous comment, that the majority of cash flow this year will be coming from Faria and Vida. But obviously, there's many other projects that are going to continue to produce cash. And as we said, we expect another $300 million. So that's going to come from other projects.

Right. Okay, great. And then just finally on Johnson, you mentioned that you could see EBITDA down but not materially. So that's a little bit of a change that I think, at the end of the year, you thought you could see investment income being down 25%. Is that the way to understand that?

Yeah, I guess so. I guess you would probably consider 25% to be down materially from 2014. I guess we don't consider it to be material in the context of our acquisition price. We think that even if it was down 25%, which would be roughly $2.5 million of EBITDA, that's amount of the NCI for this year, that's still a very healthy number in relation to the acquisition price.

Right. No, I would agree. I just was curious if there was some change in the view. But that's great. Okay, thank you very much.

Thanks, Steve.

...question comes from the line of Jenny Ma with Canaccord Genuity. Your line is open.

Thanks, good morning. So just to clarify with the MHC acquisition, Gary; when you say those characteristics are similar to Longhaven, would that include the expected cap rate on the acquisition?

Yeah, we're looking at a very low 6% cap rate.

Okay. And then you mentioned that you've got a pretty healthy pipeline of about $100 million, but you're targeting one to two parts per quarter. I believe your previous guidance is sort of more closer to one to three parts. So I'm wondering, now that you've been in this space for a few quarters now, have you changed your outlook on how fast you could be acquiring this parks? Are you finding more competition? Just some color on the lay of the land?

Yeah. I mean, we knew when we got into this Jenny, it was going to be difficult to achieve scale and as probably been even more difficult than we would have thought. One of the reasons is, since we got into a you cap rates, just underlying interest rates have really come in, and we're trying to stick to a disciplined strategy, and because of that it's been harder for us to acquire. We're not going to chase opportunities. We're sticking to three to four star parks in sunbelt, where we can add value to improvements, and so that continues to be our approach. I do think we – in the longer term, we could do better as we start acquiring parks as we build on more credibility. It should lead to more closings, and we will see portfolios here and there, but we have lowered that from one to three to one to two.

Okay. And the $100 million in the pipeline, what's the timeframe for that if they do proceed to close?

I mean that would be over a year.

Okay.

Because we're looking at each park at roughly $10 million of acquisition value and remember that these parks will really acquiring them for a mom-and-pops and it takes a long time to close them. It's not like buying from institution where you have a more organized process. It does take time.

So what's your process timeframe between when you start talking to them and when you can close it?

It could literally take – it could take six months.

Okay.

It could take a better part of a year.

Okay.

It's a long drawn out process.

Okay. Great. That's it for me. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Shan of GMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thank you. So just a follow-up on the leverage at the TAH at any level, so I think after the securitization and the portfolio purchase, the leverage would be probably around north of 60%, if I'm not mistaken. How high of a leverage are you targeting at that at any level?

Yeah. So after the portfolio acquisition and the securitization, Jimmy that's right. We're closer to 65% LTC, but the LTV would be below 60%. So we are – I mean, we're comfortable at that level. In fact, I think we would go a little bit higher than that as well, there's no reason, I mean if you look at the loan of cost and the securitization it was at 81% and we're comfortable with that level. We are taking a more portfolio approach to leverage. So we're looking at other verticals and looking at the leverage there.

So for example, in THP, our land and homebuilding vertical, we've got essentially no leverage. And so we look to – we look to balance that out as we look through to leverage at the subsidiary level. So I think we would go a little higher than where we are today, really keeping an eye on the interest service coverage.

Yeah. And obviously, the securitization deal, a very good deal and you're able to price it, [indiscernible] (34:10) that of your peers, which to me was a little surprising I suppose. But, like what would you attribute that to in terms of the ability to get such a competitive price?

Yeah. I mean, we were surprised, we were positively surprised as well, it was really a terrific result. I think a little bit of market timing, we can't take the full credit, but I think also our, our strategy really resonated well with the credit markets.

Our strategy has been focused on, I think really buying per yield first and putting a lot of money upfront into the renovation compared to our peers. So for example, we put upwards of 25% of the purchase price upfront into the renovation, our peers are often at 15% or lower. And I think that strategy and also focusing on homes that are more infill, closer to the jobs where we're really getting higher rent per pound or per square foot, was a message that just resonated really well with the debt capital markets and led to a lot of demand. We were massively oversubscribed, which led to the very attractive pricing.

Yeah. One of the things that I think one of the credit rating agencies pointed to was a relatively high amount of month-to-month leases. I'm wondering, if you could speak to that and so how should we think about that?

Yeah. Sure, Jimmy. I think there's a couple of factors that drove -this is Jonathan Ellenzweig – that drove that. Number one, we had still some homes that we acquired from the Charlotte portfolio back at the end of 2012, where we had left residents in place. So a number of those residents were still on month-to-month leases and we are happy to leave those there.

Also as we've been building this business, we've been really building it from a business perspective first and focused on frankly, driving [ph] ally (35:54) versus appeasing rating agencies. And so, when we look at our leasing, if a lease expires – number one, month-to-month lease for us isn't someone entering a month-to-month lease, it's a 12 month lease expiring and it's allowing that person to go month-to-month.

So it's really 13 month, 14 month, to 15 month or greater than that month that the person has been in our home. And typically when a lease expires we give a resident an option to renew and as Gary mentioned, our annual renewal rate or our annual rent lump was about 4% overall. We've given the option to renew or we've given the option to go to month-to-month, but at a higher rate.

And so typically it's been about a $100 per month that they had to add to their lease. So far average leases is at about $1,150 going up to $1,250. So the percentage increase is actually higher by month-to-month. So we've been happy to allow people to go to month-to-month if they're going to pay higher rent.

Okay. Okay, last question, just with respect to the portfolio that you're seeing, I'm wondering if you're – are you seeing any difference in the cap rate between the portfolio versus the singles that you've been doing?

It's not a huge variance. Again it really depends on the nature of the portfolio and the nature of the sellers. So I would characterize what we've been seeing kind of two buckets, one is smaller either mom or pops or aggregators who have built up portfolios or call it 20 homes to 200 homes. And then the second tier is more like the group that we bought from or some of our other institutional peers where people might be pruning or pairing down markets.

So, some of our competitors have been selling pools of 100 homes, 200 homes, 300 homes in markets that they've decided to exit. And so, those are really the two characteristics of the pools, and a pricing might be nominally tighter on a cap rate basis, than what you can buy one by one but not significantly and for us, that's actively combined renovated and occupied homes that are [ph] cash loan (37:35) from day one is attractive.

Yeah. Okay, great. Thank you.

Thanks, Jimmy. [Operator Instructions]

. Your next question comes from the line of Dean Wilkinson with CIBC. Your line is open.

Thank you, and good morning everybody.

Hi, Dean.

Gary, just want to make sure that I got the math clear on the acquisition capacity in the single-family homes. It looks like post the acquisition in the area with low-60%, mid-60% leverage of $300 million to $400 million, would that be in the ballpark?

Yeah. The leverage post acquisition on an LTC basis is around 65%; under an LTV basis, it would be under 60%.

Under 60%?

Yeah.

So, $300 million to $400 million taking it just a little over 60% would get you, if you still pay a [ph] $100 a door (38:31) another – call it 3,500 homes, will that get you to the 10,000 target?

Yes, that's sounds about right.

Okay. So, there is no need for anything else there. Okay, and then the only other question I had, is could you just get a little more color around that $38 million net change in fair value of derivatives that flow through the adjusted net income? What exactly was that or was it just related to the FX change over?

That's a great question, Dean. And I'm going to pass it over to June.

Nobody is quite sure what that is Dean, but the theory is that the derivatives that's related to the two converts that we have. There's a redemption derivative there, as well as an option to call the converts, and both those are fair valued every quarter for us using the model and it uses the volatility of the price as well as the – a number of other criteria to fair value. And then if our stock goes up, it kind of response by creating a loss on our income statement, in order to get – so it's basically saying that we need to have a higher liability on our balance sheet in order to be able to convert the debenture to shares.

So what drove that was just the material appreciation in the shares during the quarter...

Correct.

...with that? So it's just an option valuation that because your stocks were up 20%-somewhat...

Correct.

...that it kicked out a huge number. So it's – okay, okay, I think to the extent that I understand, and I understand it. That's all I have. Thank a lot guys.

Thanks Dean.

All right.

There are no further questions in queue at this time. I turn the conference back over to our presenters.

Thank you, operator. I would like to thank all of you on this call for your participation. We look forward to speaking to you in August when we discuss our Q2 2015 results. Thanks very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.