Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Wojtek K. Nowak — Director of Corporate Finance & Investor Relations, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Wissam Francis — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Andrew Joyner — Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Andy Carmody — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Geoffrey Kwan — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Mark Rothschild — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Jonathan Kelcher — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Stephen MacLeod — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Mario Saric — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Himanshu Gupta — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Johann Rodrigues — Analyst, Raymond James Ltd. (Broker)
Tal Woolley — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Dean Wilkinson — Analyst, CIBC World Markets, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Lindsey, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Tricon Capital second quarter analyst call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Mr. Wojtek Nowak, Director of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Lindsey. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon's results for the three months ended June 30, 2018, which were shared in the news release distributed yesterday. I would like to remind you that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking statements and information. This information is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual events or results to differ materially. For more information, please refer to our most recent Management Discussion and Analysis and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR and our company website.

Our remarks also include references to non-GAAP financial measures, which are explained and reconciled in our MD&A. I would also like to remind everyone that all figures are being quoted in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. Please note that this call is available by webcast at triconcapital.com, and a replay will be accessible there following the call.

Lastly, please note that during this call, we will be referring to a supplementary conference call presentation posted on our website. If you haven't already accessed it, it will be a useful tool to help you follow along during the call. You can find the presentation in the Investor Information section of triconcapital.com under Events & Presentations.

With that, I will turn the call over to Wissam Francis, CFO of Tricon Capital Group.

Thank you, Wojtek, and good morning, everyone. Q2 was a great quarter for Tricon with solid operational results, as well as several milestone transactions achieved. These include the landmark joint venture of our single-family rental vertical, the very successful disposition of our manufactured housing portfolio, and the addition of two new multifamily development projects in our Tricon Lifestyle Rentals vertical.

Let's begin with our financial results on slide 4 of the presentation. Our diluted earnings per share for Q2 2018 were $0.29 for the quarter, compared to a loss of $0.17 for the same period last year, where we incurred transaction costs of $28 million related to the Silver Bay acquisition. On an adjusted basis, after removing the change in the fair value of the derivative related to our convertible debentures and other non-recurring and non-cash items, we reported adjusted diluted earnings per share of $0.39, a 129% increase compared to $0.17 last year. We also reported adjusted EBITDA of $93 million, a 95% increase compared to $48 million reported last year.

Here are the key factors that contributed to the year-over-year growth in our adjusted results.

First, Tricon American Homes generated adjusted EBITDA of $68 million compared to $42 million in the prior year. That 61% increase was driven by strong rental growth and operational efficiencies, as well as a full quarter's inclusion of Silver Bay results. In addition, this quarter included a fair value gain of $37 million, reflecting strong home price appreciation of 1.7% in the quarter. This compares to a fair value gain of $20 million in the prior period, where home price appreciation was 1.2%.

Second, Tricon Lifestyle Communities generated adjusted EBITDA of $23 million, arising from the sale of our manufactured housing portfolio well above its carrying value. The sale also generated $85 million of net cash proceeds for Tricon.

Third, our Tricon Lifestyle Rentals multifamily vertical had healthy fair value gains, as the U.S. projects advanced towards completion.

And, fourth, our Private Funds and Advisory fees grew by 18% as a result of higher performance fees, higher income from Johnson, as well as increased development fees as we expanded the portfolio of active TLR projects.

These positive results were offset by a year-over-year decline in Tricon Housing Partners' adjusted EBITDA related to ongoing budget updates to reflect extended development timelines and escalating construction costs, as well as declining investment balances of legacy vehicles. We expect these pressures to continue over the next couple of quarters. On the expense side, interest expense increased in line with overall growth of the company, including a full quarter's impact of Silver Bay transaction.

I will now turn to slide 5 to discuss our liquidity position. We maintain a flexible balance sheet with over $170 million available on our revolving credit facility and over $21 million of cash on hand. During the quarter, we generated a significant amount of cash for Tricon, including $85 million of net proceeds from the sale of the manufactured housing portfolio and $25 million of cash repatriated from TAH's securitization transaction in April. We also generated $11.3 million of core FFO from TAH and $7.5 million of fee revenue from our Private Funds and Advisory business.

These cash inflows were used to fund ongoing investments across all of our verticals and reduce our debt. Over the past year, we were able to reduce our look-through leverage from approximately 63% to 60%, excluding convertible debentures. I will also note that approximately 70% of our look-through debt is locked in at fixed rates, which greatly reduces our interest rate exposure. For example, at TAH the blended cost of debt only went up 60 basis points year over year in an environment where LIBOR rates went up 90 basis points.

Going forward, we have strong visibility into numerous sources of cash flow across our businesses. These include the expected sale of TLR U.S. multifamily assets in 2019; cash flows from THP, which we expect to surpass $600 million over the next eight to 10 years; as well as highly predictable operating cash flows from Tricon American Homes and our contractual fee streams.

Starting later this year, we also expect to see initial cash flows from our first multifamily development in Toronto, followed by contributions from other buildings as they come on stream in the years ahead. Using these internally generated cash flows, we believe we are well-positioned to execute on our current growth initiatives, including the TAH joint venture that we recently announced.

With that, I'll now turn the call over to Gary to provide additional insight into the performance of our various business verticals.

Thank you, Wissam. The past 15 months have been a transformative period for our company, beginning with the Silver Bay acquisition and followed by several strategic and operational achievements coming to fruition in the second quarter 2018.

Let's step back for a minute to talk about where we are in Tricon's evolution as a company. At the time of our IPO eight years ago, Tricon was effectively a pure-play asset manager that managed comingled funds and investment in land and home-building projects. Soon after the IPO, we realized that in order to become a bigger and better asset manager, we would need to add product lines, including single-family rental, and to prove them out by incubating them on our balance sheet. We called this period of balance sheet driven product development Tricon 2.0.

With the recent announcement of the TAH joint venture, we're now entering what we call Tricon 3.0, which is an extension of our original asset management model, but with more product lines to offer third-party investors. Tricon 3.0, or the return to asset management, is more efficient from a balance sheet perspective and should allow us to scale faster, generate new sources of recurring fees streams, and drive an even stronger return on equity for our shareholders. And so I think it is only fitting that we start my commentary with a look at our Private Funds and Advisory Business on slide 7.

In the second quarter 2018, Tricon reported total fee revenue of $7.5 million, an increase of 18% year over year. A new addition was the asset management fees earned from the TAH joint venture, which were de minimis this quarter given that the JV only commenced on June 27 but will ramp up in the coming quarters. The fees earned for managing third-party capital within THP were relatively consistent year over year, in keeping with the stable base of AUM, while fees from our Johnson land development subsidiary increased as a result of higher land sales and associated development fees or commissions earned on those sales.

In TLR, our fee revenues continue to accelerate as we added new multifamily development projects in Canada. In this vertical, we earn asset management and development fees on third-party capital and expect those fees to grow as we advance the build-out of our pipeline. Lastly, we earned over $800,000 of performance fees this quarter from fund THP1 Canada and expect to receive $66 million of performance fees in the next eight to 10 years, as legacy vehicles move towards completion. In sum, we are seeing strong growth in the fee revenues and expect this trend to continue going forward.

Turning to Tricon American Homes, our biggest vertical, I'd like to touch upon three aspects of the business, namely this quarter's operating results, the recently announced joint venture, and the expanded acquisition program.

Let's start with the operating highlights on slide 8. This quarter's results reflected similar number of homes to last year, but recall that we completed the Silver Bay acquisition in May 2017, resulting in only a partial contribution from the acquired homes in the prior period. The more relevant metric is the increase in NOI margin from 60.8% to 62% over the span of one year. A key driver has been strong rent growth, which averaged 5.1% over the past 12 months and accelerated further in Q2. In the second quarter, TAH posted a record 6.4% rent growth, including 4.8% growth on renewals and 9.4% growth on new leases.

TAH has benefited from a centralized approach to revenue management and a revenue optimization program, which is helping the team make better decisions in the trade-off between occupancy and rent, resulting in higher overall revenues. It's remarkable at this stage in the housing cycle that TAH is able to drive 6%-plus blended rent growth, which obviously speaks to TAH's successful revenue management initiatives and the strong demand for institutionally managed single-family rental product.

On the cost side, notwithstanding that property taxes have been rising in line with strong home price appreciation, we've become more efficient in our operations, enabling us to contain costs in an inflationary environment. This quarter, we saw a 40 basis point reduction in repair, maintenance, and turnover expense as a percent of revenue from the internalization of these functions and enhanced scale. TAH's increased scale is also providing more buying power in items such as insurance, which also decreased as a percent of revenue year over year. These factors, along with overhead cost synergies, led to a 56% increase in core FFO, from $7.3 million last year to $11.3 million in the current period.

The same-home portfolio metrics on slide 9 paint a similar picture of operational improvement for a subset of 6,600 homes that TAH owned prior to the Silver Bay acquisition. This portfolio also experienced strong blended average rent growth of 6.3% during the quarter, in line with the consolidated portfolio metrics, again with much credit going to the enhanced revenue management efforts.

Year-over-year revenue growth of 4% was accompanied by expense growth of only 2.2%, resulting in NOI margin expansion of 60 basis points to 61.1%. As a result, same-home NOI grew by 5.1% year over year. The margin expansion for the same-home portfolio was positive overall but somewhat tempered by higher turnover costs as a result of longer tenured residents turning over during the quarter, which resulted in more wear and tear on the homes than usual. The higher turnover expenses mask some of the benefits we are seeing from internalizing the maintenance function.

The property taxes were down slightly as a percent of revenue due to reduction in property tax accruals for specific geographic markets that have more prominent impact on the same-home results. In particular tax assessments in Houston came in lower than we had expected.

With metrics like these, it is no surprise that single-family rental remains one of the most compelling investments in the broader real estate landscape. In fact, same-home NOI growth in single-family rental exceeded all other REIT sectors in 2017, and Evercore, a leading independent research company, believes it will grow by 4.7% through 2020 as compared to 2.5% for apartments and non-residential real estate sectors.

We continue to expect strong results from TAH, driven by very healthy demand for our rental homes, tangible results from revenue management initiatives, as well as ongoing cost containment and the benefits that come from added scale.

By far the most significant accomplishment at TAH this quarter was the closing of a joint venture with two leading institutional investors to acquire and manage a portfolio of 10,000 to 12,000 single-family rental homes. The investors include one of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds and one of the largest state pension plans in the U.S. The JV is not only a validation of TAH's asset management platform, but also an endorsement of single-family rental, a multitrillion-dollar real estate asset class which should see substantially more participation from large institutions in the years to come.

Slide 10 provides a summary of the JV structure. The $750 million equity commitment will be funded on an equal basis by three investors, including Tricon. The funding is expected to be deployed over a three-year investment period, followed by a five-year hold period, during which TAH will manage the homes. The total value to the portfolio is expected to be approximately $2 billion when including associated leverage of up to 65% loan to value. Throughout the JV's terms, Tricon and its investors will earn their proportionate share of net cash flow from the properties, and Tricon will earn asset management fees and potentially performance fees. In addition, TAH's operating platform will earn property management fees and other fees to offset the operating costs associated with managing, acquiring, and renovating the homes.

To be clear, this joint venture solely relates to TAH's go-forward acquisitions and does not impact any TAH homes acquired in Q1 2018 or earlier or TAH's internalized operating platform. As a way to seed the portfolio, we've agreed in principle to sell all homes acquired in Q2 to the JV at cost. In addition, TAH expects to acquire 750 to 800 homes in Q3, largely through the MLS and supplemented by iBuyer, small portfolio, and build-to-rent acquisition channels.

It's important to highlight that there continues to be a vast opportunity to acquire homes within TAH's target markets, at cap rates ranging between high 5% and low 6%, as shown on slide 11. TAH has refined and automated the acquisition process with its proprietary TriAD acquisition platform, which scrapes the MLS every 10 minutes and filters listings based on specific acquisition criteria. From these filters, the team underwrites all the homes that hit our buy box. In the second quarter specifically, there were over 180,000 new MLS listings in TAH's active markets, of which 7,900 fit our acquisition criteria. TAH made offers on 1,800 of these homes and ultimately purchased 505 homes. With the buying power of the JV coming online, TAH could easily step up to the pace of acquisitions towards 700 to 900 homes in a typical quarter.

Let's now turn to Tricon Housing Partners or THP, our for-sale housing vertical, on slide 12. During the quarter, THP generated adjusted EBITDA of $3.6 million, representing a 5.7% annualized net return on invested capital. This is below our expectation of a 9% to 11% return on capital, which is a function of several issues we discussed last quarter, including costs pressures and lengthened cycle times across the homebuilding industry, which are negatively affecting project budgets and fair value adjustments.

In fact the lack of available labor was recently highlighted in The Wall Street Journal and is resulting in an ongoing shortfall of new home starts vis-à-vis household formation. We expect THP's results to remain below our target for the next couple of quarters as we continue to implement budget updates on our remaining investments, although we believe the results are stabilizing, as you can see by the bar graph on this slide.

The demand side of THP's business remains very strong, as shown by the adjacent charts, which capture the results of two important sales channels for our business. The first is Johnson, our integrated land development platform, which is one of the largest developers of master-planned communities in the U.S. and the only one that has six MPCs ranked in the top 50 according to RCLCO. Homebuilders at Johnson's communities reported a 29% year-over-year increase in home sales to end customers across all projects in Q2 and 18% year-over-year growth for the first half of 2018. The second chart presents home sales at THP's active adult communities, which are generally performing below our original underwriting, but which have nonetheless posted a 19% increase year over year, again pointing to a [ph] stabilization results (16:56) from these projects.

Let's move on to Tricon Lifestyle Rentals or TLR, our multifamily development and rental vertical. TLR had an active quarter, adding two new investments in Toronto. The first is the West Don Lands, profiled in slide 13. This project consists of two exceptional sites totaling 9 acres, which currently make up the parking lot surrounding Toronto's historic Distillery District just east of the downtown core. We are excited to be building out a large-scale master plan in this vibrant neighborhood, which should see an influx of approximately 50,000 new jobs at Google Sidewalk Labs, First Gulf's East Harbour developments, and The Globe and Mail Centre in the immediate vicinity over the coming years. We expect the West Don Lands project to ultimately consist of 1,500 plus rental units, as well as ancillary retail and potential office space.

The project exemplifies two unique aspects of our Canadian multifamily built-to-core strategy. The first is our ability to secure sites that are specifically intended for rental development, in this case as part of the Infrastructure Ontario housing plan, which allows us to avoid head-to-head competition with condo developers. The second is our ability to build a scale portfolio with a very efficient use of our balance sheet. In this case, TLR partnered with Dream and Kilmer in a three-way agreement to share the development costs and together entered into a 99-year land lease with the Ontario government, which minimized the upfront land costs.

TLR's second investment this quarter also demonstrated a creative approach to securing attractive development sites in the competitive land market. As profiled on slide 14, the project at 6 Gloucester Street is a fully entitled site located steps away from Yonge and Bloor streets in Toronto. TLR partnered with the owner of a legacy land position who was attracted to the long-term stable cash flows of a rental project but lacked the development expertise, which TLR was able to provide. As a result, TLR avoided an open market bidding situation and secured a prime zone development site and an attractive land basis, acquiring a 47% ownership stake and serving as the developer and operator of the building. We expect the building to have approximately 34 stories and 200 units upon completion.

With the closing of these two projects, TLR has a clear path to building the leading Class A multifamily portfolio in Canada. If you flip to slide 15, you can see that TLR Canada's active development pipeline now totals approximately 2,700 units and $1 billion of total cost upon full build-out, or CAD 1.3 billion, with TLR owing approximately 30% at the aggregate project equity. We expect the ultimate market value of these projects to be considerably higher than what you see in our balance sheet. And so we continue to push towards stabilization on a number of our earlier investments to serve as real-life case studies for the investment community.

The first is the Selby at Bloor and Sherbourne streets in Toronto, where our marketing and operations teams are scheduling building tours for Q3, with leasing for the first 15 floors to begin in Q4 2018. The McKenzie and Maxwell, our two U.S. projects, are also nearing completion and lease-up, with expected disposition in 2019, at which time we intend to apply the proceeds towards corporate debt reduction.

In terms of other updates, TLR Canada's second project at 57 Spadina has started construction, with 30% of all trade contracts secured on budget. And Scrivener Square reached a significant milestone subsequent to quarter-end when the Toronto City Council voted unanimously to approve a 21-story building.

Turning to slide 16, one of the major accomplishments for the quarter was the completion of the sale of Tricon Lifestyle Communities, or TLC, our manufactured housing investment vertical. On June 29, Tricon completed the sale of this 14-park portfolio to an institutional asset manager for gross proceeds of $172.5 million, resulting in $85 million of net proceeds to Tricon after the repayment of debt, transaction costs, and performance fees to our operating partner Cobblestone. The transaction resulted in net analyzed return or IRR of 25% over a four-year investment period, making this an excellent addition to our investment track record and a key step in our quest to simplify the business.

I would like to conclude with a summary of what all our recent accomplishments mean to Tricon from a valuation perspective. Let's first take a step back and revisit the progress we've made in growing our book value per share over time, as shown in slide 17. Over the last 51/2 years, Tricon has increased its book value per share by an average of 22% per annum in Canadian dollars for a current level CAD 10.23. We view this as a clear indication of value created for shareholders, which should ultimately reflect in our share price.

Looking forward, if we were to simply operate our existing assets and finish the developments we have started, slides 18 and 19 give you a sense of the kind of incremental value that we can potentially create. Take TAH on slide 18, for example, where we currently have a run rate NOI of $146 million. Assuming same-home NOI grows by let's say 5% per year, and assuming an illustrative valuation cap rate of around 5% to 5.25%, we could generate incremental book value of more than $1 per share per year – $1 per share per year. This is before even considering the value of reinvesting cash flow into new homes as part of the TAH JV.

In TLR on slide 19, we're currently underwriting development yields of 5.25% to 5.75% on approximately $1.2 billion of construction costs. If we assume current market cap rates of 3.75% to 4.75%, we could double the value of this business to more than $2 of book value per share. And in THP, we're projecting approximately $600 million of net distributions to Tricon over eight years to 10 years, translating to $5.90 of book value per share upon completion.

Taken together, our existing investments enable us to meaningfully grow book value per share, providing us with confidence in our prospects and our ability to create value for both public and private investors. And we look forward to reaching our goal of $10 billion of AUM in five years and delivering on the promise of Tricon 3.0, our renewed focus on asset management.

With that, I will pass the call back to Lindsey to take questions. And we'll be joined by other members of our senior management team, including Jon Ellenzweig, Andy Carmody, Andrew Joyner, and Kevin Baldridge. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Geoff Kwan with RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. First question was just on the rent growth at TAH. Obviously you can't sustain these levels over the long term, but any thoughts in terms of how much higher it could possibly go or at least stay at these elevated levels?

Hi, Geoff. Actually our numbers in July are even better than Q2, which is just outstanding. It's really surprised us how strong these numbers are, and it's showing how our revenue optimization efforts are really showing themselves. And it's – I think, we can continue these levels probably for few quarters, but to say that we can do this forever is obviously not sustainable.

Okay. Great. Thanks for that. On Trinity Falls, is there an opportunity, or is it something that you guys might have thought about, to syndicate down your investment in that, maybe pick up some more management fees and then use the proceeds to pay down debt more than you have already?

Yes. It's a good thought. It's something we are thinking about. The first thing we wanted to do was obviously to stabilize the asset to – we had to perfect the entitlements, if you remember. We ended up buying another 300 acres. We're expanding our building program and putting in new amenities, and we think with all of that the asset will show better. It's been a bit of a turnaround. And so I think we're now in a better position to think about syndicating it. So it's something we will look at in the future, and it very much would be in keeping with our effort to lighten the balance sheet and grow the asset management business.

Okay, great. And just if I can sneak in one last question. With your various kind of investors that help with the various investments in your various verticals, do you have any exposure to any Saudi entities? And if so are there any implications to kind of think about on kind of current future funding ability?

The answer to that is no. We don't have any exposure to Saudi investors.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Mark Rothschild with Canaccord. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. Maybe just -

Hi, Mark.

Hey. Just following up on the TAH. Is there any way to quantify or know how much of the rent growth is outperforming the market? I mean, you talked quite a bit at your Investor Day, and then again on the call, about the technology that you guys using and how you really feel it's improving your ability to maximize revenue. Is there any way to know what that's actually translating into?

Yeah. We think our best guess is it's adding about 200 basis points of rent growth, which is pretty phenomenal. I mean, we were at 6.4% for the whole portfolio. We think without the revenue optimization efforts, we'd probably be around 4.5%. So it's pretty substantial.

Okay. And then you referenced a broker that is forecasting 4.4% growth for [indiscernible] (26:18) business. I assume that means same-store NOI. If you're saying that you can do 200 basis points better – and if you referenced that, I assume you think it's a good number – does that mean that over the next couple years you think you could do 6% plus?

Yeah, I mean that metric from Evercore is same-store NOI growth. We're saying it will be just under 5% for 2020. We think we can continue to do about 5%. I'm not sure if your question is related to rent or revenues or related to NOI. On the revenue side, as I said in the previous line of questions, we think we can do 5% to 6% for a few more quarters. We certainly can't do that forever. I mean, that's off-the-charts rent growth. And I think for NOI growth, we're pretty confident that we can continue to maintain around 5%. So that obviously bodes really well for our ability to continue to grow NAV.

Got it. Great. Thank you so much.

Our question comes from the line of Jonathan Kelcher with TD Securities. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good morning. Just sticking with the TAH, the same property occupancy was down 90 basis points this year. I guess overall occupancy was down close to that. Is that a function of the revenue optimization

Yeah. It absolutely is. And it's also a function of new acquisitions. So the stabilized occupancy really hasn't changed much at all. But in-place occupancy has come down, as you said, almost 5%, largely because of the revenue optimization efforts where we make a trade-off between occupancy days in market and driving rent. And obviously the decision has been to lower occupancy a little bit in order to ultimately achieve higher revenues, which is what we're doing. But it's also a bit of a function of new acquisitions. We acquired 500 homes in Q2. And, remember, those homes are vacant when we acquire them.

Okay. And then I guess just sticking with that, on a stabilized basis, I'm guessing there'd be a range of occupancy that you'd like to stay at. The trade-off between pushing rents and not having too many empty homes. What level are you targeting there?

Well, I think in this environment, where we see really, really strong demand and obviously a very strong economic backdrop, we'd like to keep in-place occupancy probably above 95%. But obviously it's a function of acquisitions. So I say that really in relation to more of a stabilized portfolio. If we were to really ramp up acquisitions, it obviously would impact the in-place occupancy.

Okay. And then just lastly, I'm not sure if you saw this, but the HavenBrook portfolio was announced this morning with Front Yard Residential. Is that something you guys looked at it at all?

Yeah, we looked at it a while back. We felt that it was a decent portfolio but maybe only half the homes really fit our buy box. So we didn't really pursue it too aggressively. But we think it's probably a good move for Resi and helps them clean up their own story.

Okay. Any thoughts on the pricing that they announced this morning?

We don't – we just saw it, Jon. I think our best guess – and it's just a guess – is it's probably a high 5% cap rate, but we don't really know. We'll have to go back and look at the numbers. I don't think they announced the cap rate. I don't even think they provided the NOI. So it's really just a guess.

Okay. Thanks. I'll turn it back.

Our next question comes from the line of Stephen MacLeod with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Good morning, guys.

Hi, Steve.

Hi. Just two questions here. I just wanted to get a bit of a sense as to what you're seeing in the early days of your new significant JV in Tricon American Homes. I mean, I know you touched a little bit on it in your slides, but I'm just curious if you can give a little bit of color around what you're seeing, what the market response has been, and how you're seeing the home acquisition new plan working.

Well, as we talked about, we are going to contribute the 500 homes we acquired in Q2 to the JV at cost in Q3. And then in addition to that, we expect to buy about 750 to 800 homes for the JV in Q3. So in total about 1,250 to 1,300 homes in Q3, right in line with underwriting in terms of where we're targeting the cap rates, high 5%, low 6%, and right in line in terms of acquisition volume. So we're feeling great about our ability to hit the acquisition volume, which is obviously a key thing that's going to drive the JV going forward. And obviously the overall market sentiment to the JV has been extremely positive. It obviously allows us to scale faster. You're not going to see this for probably a couple of quarters, but over time it's going to be, we think, substantially accretive to us from an operating perspective as well, in that it makes our operations certainly more efficient.

Okay. That's great. Thank you. And then, when you look at the THP business, can you just talk a little bit about your confidence level in the returns returning to that 9% to 11% range, just given what we're seeing in the market right now?

Yeah. Yeah. I think we're going to have another couple of quarters where we're revisiting all the business plans, updating all the models of our some 50 projects. And so we expect that – the EBITDA to be, for Q3 and Q4 in general, to be in line with Q1 and Q2. So really under where we would like it to be. In 2019, we're relatively confident that we'll be able to get back to our targets. But I stress relatively because it is an environment where costs remain and they're just difficult to control and are somewhat out of our control. That being said, the offset is demand's very, very strong, as we talked about, in terms of Johnson sales. Even our active adult sales are sharply up year over year. So I think we're relatively confident, Steve, that we'll be able to do quite a bit better in 2019.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Mario Saric with Scotia Bank. Your line is now open.

Hi, good morning.

Hey, Mario.

Just coming back to TAH and maybe a couple of clarification points, Gary. When you mentioned the internal forecast for same-store or same-home NOI of 5%, is that kind of through 2019, or is that through the 2020 period that references the Evercore estimate?

No. I'd say – I mean, we're not looking all the way out to 2020. I know Evercore has made those projections. I mean, I would say we're probably looking more at 2018, 2019.

Got it. Okay. And then, on the rent growth, clearly very strong. The 6.4% year over year is very likely higher than the year-over-year kind of household disposable income growth within the portfolio. So that ratio is inching up a little bit, I guess, over time. How do you think about going from the low-20s to let's say the high 20s in terms of that ratio, so rent to disposable income?

And then secondly, within the revenue management system, are there any factors embedded within the system that allocate value to let's say quote-unquote "goodwill," so maybe not necessarily increasing rents at the pace that you can in order to kind of retain tenants and kind of perhaps even kind of thinking about regulatory implications, given what you're seeing in California through the Costa Hawkins?

Yeah. Interesting set of questions. Really talking about, I think, risk to being able to raise rents at these levels, certainly political risk, headline risk, and then just ability for people to pay. Like I said before, these are not sustainable rent increases. The business started really as one where we just literally tried to get heads in beds, and now we've professionalize it, and we continue to institutionalize it now with revenue optimization techniques, and that's allowing us to get a pop. But to say that we can grow rents 6% forever, that's absurd. We just can't.

On the other hand, wages are increasing, not increasing at 6%, but maybe they're increasing at 4%. So, yeah, if you look at rent to disposable income, that ratio is going to tick higher, but not a lot higher. So we still think we have a lot of room, and that's why I said I think we can continue to raise rents at this 5% to 6% level at least for a few quarters. We've got that visibility. But we certainly don't think we can do it forever.

And we do have internal guidelines about how much we can raise rent. We would never raise rent, for example, on a renewal more than 9% because we just don't want to attract that headline. It's more related – the impact is really related more to new leases. We've got to be much more careful on renewals, and we'll still always have an occupancy bias. Even though we've dropped the occupancy a little bit, we will on the whole retain an occupancy bias.

Got it. And within the revenue management system, is there a specific rent to disposable income ratio that is targeted, and is there a level where the system starts to show a meaningful decline in occupancy?

Hi, Mario. This is this is Jon Ellenzweig. We don't have a specific target ratio, but as you know we're in the low 20s. Don't expect it to tick up meaningfully over the near term. And in our model, what we're really focused on doing is balancing occupancy turnover and rent growth for all of our renewals, and we're going to continue to do that. As Gary mentioned, we do have a cap on what our maximum renewal is. If you look this quarter on same-home or total portfolio, there's a spread of call it 400, 500 basis points between the two of those. And I expect there'd continue to be a gap between the new lease growth and renewal growth.

Got it. Okay. And, Gary, your comment on July rents being even better than Q2, is that both on renewal and turnover?

Yes, they're slightly better than Q2. Just for July, though. So I don't necessarily want to say that that one month makes a trend, but it does look like at this point it continues to ratchet up.

Yeah, okay. Just maybe a couple quick questions on the JV and perhaps maybe on the accounting for the JV, where there's been an uptick in the corporate overhead allocated TAH quarter over quarter, which presumably the majority of that related to getting the JV off the ground. How should we think about the allocation of corporate overhead between TAH and then kind of to the JV going forward?

So, yeah, most of the significant ramp-up and most of the change in the overhead associated was with the JV this quarter. It's primarily related to significant ramp-up costs and setup costs this quarter, and we expect that going forward to increase by another roughly $1 million for Q3 going forward on a run rate basis. Because the fees – we haven't incurred any fees – we haven't earned any fees in Q2, but we'll start earning fees as we start investing capital in Q3 going forward. In terms of costs attributed to the JV and associated to the JV, these costs all incurred as overhead for TAH. Unless the cost is directly attributed to the joint venture, it cannot be charged to the joint venture. It is offset by the fees that we earn.

I'm just thinking from a longer-term, from an FFO perspective, once the fees start coming in from the JV, how to think about the cost allocation to that fee stream in terms of kind of getting to a net FFO figure? [indiscernible] (38:42)

Well, you know, Mario, the net FFO number is driven in part obviously by the property-level metrics, but then the overhead at TAH, which is deducted to get to FFO. And what you're seeing this quarter, and we probably will see it for a couple more quarters, is a ramp-up in TAH overhead. And that's related to the startup costs associated with this. For example, we've hired about 30 people, 10 in acquisitions, 20 in the field, to ramp up for the higher pace of acquisitions. So there are startup costs. And so you should expect to see in these early quarters the higher overhead that you saw in Q2. But over time, the joint venture and certainly – or as TAH gets the benefit of a series of fees, including property management fees that will be paid to Tricon, and that will offset some of this early-stage incremental overhead.

So the long and short of it is the FFO this quarter is a little bit lower than maybe what you would have thought because of the startup costs for the JV, but over time we will get the benefit of it. The thing to keep in mind – we can't give you a specific example, but the thing to keep in mind is that the asset management fees are paid on committed capital. But the actual fees – operating fees, for example, property management fees, there's also acquisition fees and construction management fees – those are paid to TAH on invested capital. So we're in a situation right now where we're having to incur this overhead but we're not getting any fee income in. But as soon as we start ramping up the acquisition volume and stabilizing that JV, you'll see a real benefit.

Right. Okay. And then just in terms of the accounting treatment for the future JV purchases, is it expected that you'll be showing kind of the income associated with the homes that you buy through the JV on a proportionate basis or consolidated with a minority interest?

No, it's projected that we're going to have a consolidated look, so you'll see total TAH not segregated by joint venture homes. But then at the bottom you'll see deduction of minority interest. In that minority interest, we'll deduct the shares of our partners through that line.

Got it. Okay. And then on the acquisition front, one-third of, let's say, 700 to 900 homes a quarter gets you to about 230 to 300 homes that's Tricon share per quarter, which is kind of below the 400 to 500 that you were targeting before. Obviously, there could be portfolios and other things along the line going forward that can significantly increase that 230 to 300, that Tricon share over time, but how do we think about the acquisition pace in that context?

Yeah. I would think that – we're really trying to guide to what we think we can control. So when we talk about doing 700 to 900 a quarter, that's largely through the MLS, one by one, supplemented by a little bit of build-to-rent, maybe some through the iBuyer channel, small portfolios, but nothing large. In order, I think, for us to get up to – let's say 1,200, where we would get back to the 400 pace prior to the JV, we need to buy some larger portfolios. So obviously we have the capital reserved essentially to be able to do that over three years. But, without being able to access those larger portfolios, we're more comfortable guiding to around 700 to 900 per quarter.

Good. Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Himanshu Gupta with GMP Securities. Your line is now open.

Thank you and good morning. So on Tricon American Homes, very strong fundamentals in the single-family rental space. Needless to say, industry is taking notice. Are you seeing any new players, new competition, in the single-family space, or is it mostly expansion by existing players?

The only new player we've seen is Cerberus. So they've been pretty aggressive. They're also going with more of a middle market strategy. They see a lot of opportunity in single-family rental, and it ramped up. But apart from that it's the usual suspects. On the private side, it's Progress and Amherst, and they – between them and Cerberus – continue to be our main competition. I think over the MLS for onesie-twosies, Invitation and AMH I think are a little bit less active. Obviously, we just saw the announcement with Front Yard buying HavenBrook. That portfolio had been in the market for a while, so it wasn't surprise to us that it traded. But it's largely the usual suspects.

Sure. And just to follow up on the rent growth on new move-ins, looks like it was strong – equally strong for legacy Tricon assets and Silver Bay portfolio. Does that change quite a bit by market? I mean, are there markets you're pushing rents 10% to 15%, and are there markets like 5%? Just want to get a sense of the geographic mix of the performance.

No, and that's a good question, Himanshu. And, yeah, there is some variance between markets, and – there's a number of factors, though. So in some cases it has to do with certain markets performing stronger and higher demand. And for example the West Coast markets – in particular Northern California, Reno, Las Vegas – we're seeing strong demand. But in other cases where we're buying a lot of homes, in a market like Atlanta, we might actually temper our rent growth because we have more homes coming online at once and we're trying to balance, as I said before, occupancy as well as rent growth. So I would say there are some variances by market, but some of it is caused by us and where we're buying homes and adding more volume to our portfolio.

But what I would say, Himanshu, just to add to that, it's relatively consistent across the portfolio. In other words it's not like we're getting 20% in one market and 5% in another. I mean we're not really getting much more than 10% in any market. So it is relatively consistent across the board.

Sure. And maybe just to follow up on the market broad performance. Houston, we saw some reduction in property taxes. So is this just isolated to Houston market, or should we – I mean, how should we model the property tax growth on a full-year basis? Still 9% type growth?

Yeah. I mean, I think last quarter we thought we'd be around up 8% to 9% for the year. Look, I mean, we were surprised, I mean, that the Houston assessments came in much better than we thought, which allowed us to reverse the Q1 accrual. So that's great news. We're still up 4% on property taxes year to date, and I think now we think we're going to be closer to 6% to 8%. So it's a little better than what we thought in Q1, but it's obviously still a significant increase, and obviously in line with the HPA.

Sure. And just switching gears on TLC's sale. Obviously, very impressive annualized returns on equity there. How did the investment pan out relative to your underwriting or initial expectations? And then at what point of time do you shift focus to TLR's U.S. now?

I mean, it did significantly better than what we'd thought. I mean, everything we look at, we underwrite to probably a 15% to 20% return. And I think for this type of asset class, which is stabilized and competitive, probably we would have expected to the lower end of that range, probably closer to 15%. So to achieve a 25% net over four years is just – it's off the charts for the vintage of that investment. So we're extremely happy with the result, and it obviously speaks to our ability to add value and also just how much competition there is for this asset class and, again, a reason why we're exiting it.

TLR, we feel good about the prospects for Maxwell/McKenzie. We think that we will see some sort of transaction in the first half of 2019. Both projects now are substantially completed and have started their lease-up. The early leasing at the McKenzie, which is the project near Highland Park in Dallas, is about 10% ahead of our budget. The Frisco asset, I'm going to say, is probably closer to budget. So I think at this point we probably hit our expectations. I don't know if it's going to be a home run like TLC or something far better than what we expected. But it should probably be closer to our underwriting on TLR. And I think, again, I think we've told the Street that we expect to receive proceeds back of about $75 million.

Sure. And maybe just one final question I can squeeze in. On Tricon Housing Partners, I mean, the pressure is mostly on the cost side, what we understand, and timing-related. Have you revised any of your revenue assumptions, I mean given the HPA? And are they helping to offset the increases in construction costs there?

Yeah. I mean, when we update the budget, it's obviously holistic. We just don't update the costs; we update everything, revenues and timing. And in a lot of cases, yeah, we are seeing higher revenues as well. So it has helped to offset the cost increases. In many cases, there's been really no impact on overall profits. But we have seen elongated or extended time, and that's obviously impacted the fair value. So it's interesting, because in some business plans, we actually see no material change in profits, yet we're showing these kind of negative fair value adjustments just because of the time value aspect.

Okay. Thank you for the color. I'll turn it back.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Johann Rodrigues with Raymond James. Your line is now open.

So you're a couple months out from completion of The Selby, and because the cost was projected to be, call it, $140 million, based on what you're currently underwriting, what do you think the value is on stabilization of this thing? $180 million, $200 million?

Yeah. I think you're in the ballpark. I think you're in the ballpark. I can't tell you exactly what the number is, but let's just say it is significantly higher than the $140 million. This project that we just talked about, TLR, but I will tell you this project for us is probably going to be a home run. The costs are in line with – are probably going to below what we budgeted. The revenues are probably going to be a lot higher. The cap rate, the valuation's probably are going to be a lot lower than what we underwrote as well. So everything's pointing in the right direction.

What rents are you currently underwriting?

We underwrote $2.90. I don't know where we're going to end up. It wouldn't shock me for us to get around $3.50. I think if it was a smaller building, we could do better than that, but it's a big building. It's 500 units. So we've got to be careful about where we set the rents. So I think it's possible that we could achieve $3.50.

What's the average size of the units?

It's about 680 square feet. Does that sound right, Andrew?

683.

683. Sorry, I was off by 3 feet.

Okay. Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Tal Woolley with National Bank. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning.

Hey, Tal.

Good morning.

Just wanted to ask – Silver Bay, that portfolio enters the same-home pool next quarter. Is there anything materially different about it versus the rest of the portfolio that we should keep in mind that would make its growth sort of run ahead or behind the other assets?

Yeah, the – that's not true. It will enter in Q1 2019.

Oh, [ph] so at that point? (50:51)

Yeah. At that point, we'd ramp up to roughly 16,000 homes on a same-store basis. It's actually interesting. If you look at our consolidated portfolio, the metrics are better than our same-store.

Yeah.

On a much bigger portfolio. And part of that reflects, obviously – that obviously reflects the Silver Bay acquisition, where there's still some lots to lease, which is allowing us to get slightly higher revenue growth. But, yeah there's definitely some geographic differences, which have minor impacts on things like margin. But on the whole, it's actually – we'd be better off right now if the same-store was the entire portfolio.

Okay. And then just on the – like, what are you seeing in the markets where you're looking to dispose of the assets and taxes for TLR. Where are you seeing assets trade right now in terms of cap rates?

Well, obviously it depends on whether you're kind of urban concrete, your suburban garden style, so there can be a huge range in where the cap rates are. But we're seeing, I think, for suburban, classic garden style, we're seeing cap rates around 5%. Would you say that's right, Andy?

I agree.

And then at the McKenzie, though, which is probably going to be the best or one of the best assets in Dallas, that that's going to trade well – I would guess that's going to trade well inside of 5%; I just don't know. There's not a lot of comps. But I would suspect it could trade at – is 4.5% possible? 4.5% maybe.

Okay. And then just to be clear, I think [ph] with them (52:30) you had talked earlier about, at the time of the JV announcement, maybe $1 million to $2 million a quarter in sort of like this ramp up/platform building for the joint venture. Is that spending sort of permanent cost, or do you think that can be optimized down the road? How should we think about – because I get some of this is setup, where it probably is truly one-time in nature, but some of this is going to be stickier, too.

Yeah. So step one for us is really stabilize, meaning hire the people that we need to in order to perform our jobs. And then step two will be create efficiencies as we go along the process. So I would say this will be a permanent cost for the short while, meaning maybe the first year, year and a half. And after that then we start looking at optimization, and we start looking at getting better at what we do.

Okay. And I guess my next question is just in relation to that. Obviously you're bearing the cost to build out this platform, where you can really start to get more target layering on more deals on top of this, and I mean I know it probably seems unfair to ask after having just started this, but when do you start looking for the next deal to add to this platform?

Well, we're always looking for opportunities. I mean, they don't come up every day. You have to be – Tricom's always had a very opportunistic mindset, and so if something strategic came up and it made sense, we'd definitely look at it. But we don't need to do anything strategic. I mean, we can just do – finish what we started, invest the JV, go from 16,000 homes to nearly 30,000 homes, and we get a lot more scale.

And the question is, does that take us two years or three years? Right now we're projecting three years, but if it's just that, it ends up being a very good result, there's – again, we just can't speak to these numbers, unfortunately, but from an overhead perspective, you're not going to see it for the first year or so, but this is very accretive for us over time. When you start to get to year three when this is fully invested and then over the hold period, the fee income is going to be very substantial, and you will start to see that improvement in the opco or TAH overhead. Now, that assumes everything stays constant. Obviously if we do something strategic, we're going to have to ramp up even more and there'll be even more overhead, so keep that in mind.

Okay. That's great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of Dean Wilkinson with CIBC. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Morning, everyone.

Hi, Dean.

Gary, just following on that line of conversation there. As you look toward sort of Tricon 3.0, or maybe even Tricon 4.0, do you have in hand right now enough of sort of the product, people, et cetera, processes to get to $10 billion of AUM, or are you going to have to grow sort of the underlying sort of a corporate head count and additions to people and space, et cetera?

No. I mean, we can pretty much get to $10 billion, not only with our existing team – obviously we've talked about ramping up some people at TAH – but I think apart from that, with our existing team. But also, I think, with our existing assets and program. So if you think it through, once we fully invest the TAH JV, we're going to add another $1.5 billion, let's say, just by layering on [ph] the debt (56:16) and finishing the acquisition program.

And then at TLR, if we complete the build-out, again, of the existing assets, that is – just in Canada alone, it's about $1.3 billion of costs, substantially higher in value. So that gets us, I think, to right about $8 billion or $9 billion just by finishing what we've started. So I think we're very optimistic about getting that $10 billion. To make up the last billion or two, we'd have to do something new. But we're confident that we'll obviously add more properties for TLR in Canada, or maybe something else will come up – maybe something strategic will come up to allow us to go faster.

Right. Well, that math also assumes the sort of book value where it is, right? Like, there's going to be growth along the way as well.

Yes, yes.

So you don't need to do sort of another big, overarching $2 billion, $3 billion joint venture to get there?

We don't, and that's why we outlined in the last couple of pages of our earnings presentation today that if we literally just put our pens down and just finish what we started, there's substantial book value growth ahead, and also substantial AUM growth.

True enough. I've known you for a while now, though, you're not putting your pen down, so.

No, we're not getting – we just announced 3.0, so we're not going to – we'll wait a little bit before we go to 4.0.

Yeah. Sounds good. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

And there are no further questions in queue at this time. I'll turn the call back over to our presenters for any closing comments.

Thank you, Lindsey. I would like to thank all of you on the call for your participation and questions. We look forward to speaking to you in November when we discuss our third quarter results for 2018.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.