Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Berman — Executive Chairman, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
June Alikhan — Chief Financial Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Glenn Watchorn — Co-Chief Operating Officer, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jonathan Ellenzweig — Managing Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Gary Berman — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Tricon Capital Group, Inc.
Jenny S. Ma — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity Corp.
Wojtek K. Nowak — Analyst, Fraser Mackenzie Ltd

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Tricon Q4 Investor Call. At this time, all lines are in listen-only mode, but later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, note that the conference is being recorded on this date, March 13, 2013.

And I would like to turn the conference over to your host Mr. David Berman. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us to discuss Tricon results for the quarter and fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, which results we set out in news release we distributed earlier this morning. Our quarterly and annual financial statements and the MD&A are also available on both the Tricon website and SEDAR.

With me today in our offices are June Alikhan, our Chief Financial Officer; Gary Berman; President and Co-Chief Operating Officer, and Jon Ellenzweig; Vice President. Joining us remotely is Glenn Watchorn; Co-Chief Operating Officer, who is currently on a site business to our Cross Creek Ranch master-planned community in Houston, Texas.

Please note that this call is also available by webcast at triconcapital.com and a replay will be accessible by telephone until March 22. Before we get started, I'll remind that our remarks and answers to your questions may contain forward-looking information that future events and the performance of our limited partnership events. This information, by its nature, is subject to risks and uncertainty that may cause actual events or results to differ materially.

A detailed review of such risk factors is included in both our most recent short form prospectus and Annual Information Form, which are available on SEDAR.

I will start with summary of fourth quarter and full year highlights. June will then briefly review from our key financial results. Then, in a slight departure from previous calls, Glenn and Jon will provide some color on our asset management business, by which I mean our funds and separate accounts and our single-family strategy. Gary will then conclude by commenting on our outlook and business prospects and we'll then act as a point-person for your questions, which we will be very pleased to field.

2012 was a momentous year for Tricon, as reflected in our record earnings and the notable expansion of our operating platform. Our year-over-year adjusted revenue increased by approximately 180% while year-over-year adjusted EBITDA increased by nearly 140%, both reaching record levels for the company. This performance was largely driven by our new U.S. Distressed Single-Family Rental Home Strategy, Contractual Management Fees from our most recent private equity funds and separate account, then the Tricon XI, Tricon XII and Cross Creek Ranch, as well as investment income from co-investing in those funds, separate account.

Over the course of year, assets under management, AUM increased by CAD 150 million, a result of our fundraising success for the three aforementioned funds; separate account, that partially offset by the runoff of two older funds.

Over the past couple of years, we've been telling all those cartelism, that the U.S. housing market would reach equilibrium towards the end of 2013 and an up cycle would then commence. For most of this time, our words still on deaf ears. On the other hand, we'd listened to ourselves and over this period of time, having debt that is an excess of [ph] CAD 500 million (03:38) in the recovery in U.S. land market.

However, over the past few months, the media has been reporting that the bottom has been reached and that the U.S. housing market is in recovery. As a result, we have seen strong demand from Wall Street for exposure to U.S. land and housing and are now beginning to see similar signs from pension funds and endowments.

This has translated to increased dialogue with potential investors for Tricon XI and at this point in time several pension plans and endowments are in the midst of due diligence.

Our historical experience has been that of the potential LPs have met with our investment professionals, they ultimately become investors. Accordingly, I expect the second close for Tricon XI will take place around mid-year. And as it's typical for a fund of this nature, the new investors will be required to pay management fees to the company, retroactively to the date of deemed first closing, in this case from July 2012.

Expansion of our U.S. single-family platform continued during the quarter with 981 homes purchased and approximately CAD 75 million of additional capital invested. At year-end, we owned 1,504 rental homes and 78 homes inventoried for sale, colloquially known as flip homes. The occupancy rate of our rental portfolio at the end of the year was approximately 69%, which was higher than expected, a result of the December acquisition of a portfolio of mostly occupied homes in Charlotte.

More importantly, the occupancy rate for homes, which have been owned for at least six months was approximately 95%. We've also sold 28 homes during the quarter, 50 for the year at an average gross profit margin of nearly 8%, which equates to approximate 32% annualized non-compounded return, when taking into account our average hold period of 92 days.

I'm also very pleased to announce that on March 12, our board of directors declared unchanged quarterly dividend payment in the amount of CAD 0.06 per share to shareholders of record on March 31. The dividend will be payable on April 15.

Finally, I would like to take a moment to thank our shareholders and bond holders without whom our 2012 financial performance would not have been possible.

To those who've stuck with us since our IPO in mid-2010, thank you for your patience and trust. And to those of you who've joined us during the course of the year, welcome, we look forward to building even more value for you in the upcoming years.

And with that, I will now turn our presentation over to June for a summary of how we've performed in relation to our key financial metrics.

Thanks, David. Tricon's financial results released earlier today are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards or IFRS, and are presented in Canadian dollars unless noted otherwise. Management's discussion and analysis of these results and the full financial statements are available on our website and SEDAR.

Total adjusted base revenues increased by 344% to CAD 13,433,000 in Q4 2012 and by 178% to CAD 31,829,000 for fiscal 2012 when compared to the corresponding periods in 2011.

Adjusted EBITDA for Q4 2012 and fiscal 2012 were CAD 3,363,000 and CAD 11,400,000 respectively, approximately 180% and 136% higher than the corresponding periods in 2011. These results include the impact of our U.S. single-family rental platform, which was launched in Q2 2012, and generated net operating income of CAD 747,000 and CAD 1,315,000 for Q4 2012 and fiscal 2012, respectively.

Finally adjusted net income for Q4 2012 and fiscal 2012 were CAD 846,000 and CAD 5,641,000, respectively, approximately 39% and 122% higher than the corresponding periods in 2011. As a result, adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2012 increased to CAD 0.20 compared to CAD 0.14 earned for 2011, an increase of 43%. During 2012, we completed three capital raises, two common stock offerings and one convertible debenture and issued a second convertible debenture in February 2013.

The proceeds from these offerings have all been earmarked for our U.S. Distressed Single-Family Rental Strategy.

I will now turn the presentation over to Glenn Watchorn, who will provide our shareholders with some insight on the residential real estate markets in the U.S. and Canada.

Thank you, June. The significant negative media attention focused on the Canadian housing market as well as the Federal Government and Bank of Canada's work to limit the availability of credit and to caution homebuyers on the use of debt succeeded improving the housing market in Canada. In particular, the media has focused on the Toronto condo market. However, we believe that a U.S. dollar real estate crash is highly unlikely.

Especially given that the supply of resale housing remains low, condominiums for rent continue to have extremely low vacancy rates and the fact that well located and well priced projects are achieving strong sales rates. As mentioned in prior calls, we believe that the Toronto new condominium market has already come off its peak and that prices will likely fall by as much as 10% from peak to trough over the next one to two years with absorption remaining slow through 2013.

In line with the broader Canadian housing market slowdown, construction lenders are reducing their exposure in particular in the Toronto condominium sector. As a result, construction financing has become increasingly difficult to obtain and we expect that a number of recently launched projects will be cancelled at least for the short-term. This should help to limit any future oversupply in the market however. Tricon's fund investments are well positioned to perform under these new circumstances, given that with one exception, our Toronto projects are already financed. We also believe that tightened credit will present us with greater opportunities on a risk-adjusted basis going forward.

Furthermore, and so far as Tricon's Toronto condominium projects are concerned, we are approximately 95% sold out at prices that are meaningfully lower than today's market prices, and with significant purchaser deposits in place. As a results, we feel confident in our projected Canadian fund returns, the security of performance fees from Canadian funds, as well as the stability of the company's Canadian co-investments, which make-up less than 10% of our total assets.

In start, contrast to the Canadian housing market after six year of decline, the U.S. housing market is starting to fire in all cylinders, but still has ways to go. Inventory of new and resale homes are at the lowest level seen in over 30 years, median resale home prices experienced double-digit increases in 2012, and affordability is at levels not seen for decades.

However, starts are still well below normalized and sustenance levels, home prices still lag behind historical trend lines, a noticeable foreclosure overhang persists and mortgage credit is hard to come by for those without pristine personal balance sheets. Our expectations which also mere those of most leading housing economists are that over the next several years we'll see credit comeback into the system amidst improving FICO scores, and we will see the end of the foreclosure mess resulting in a prolonged period of both home price appreciation, and rising housing starts in the U.S.

The performance of our U.S. fund investments is reflective of the current housing market upswing. For example, after relatively slow 2011, [indiscernible] (11:46) home building project in Chandler, a highly desirable suburb of Phoenix has been selling approximately six homes per month while increasing prices 1% to 2% per quarter which is above our expectations of four sales per month at flat pricing.

Another good examples are Williams Island Land Development and Homebuilding investment in Greater Miami which sold over 200 units in the second half of 2012, ahead of everyone's expectations.

Although, our funds also hold land in outer suburbs where the recovery has not completely taken hold and which typically have the greatest price volatility, by and large the performance of our fund investments is reflective of the improvement in the broader U.S. housing market.

In terms of new investments, Tricon XI has already committed approximately [ph] CAD 100 million (12:33) of capital to five projects which are largely positioned to take advantage of the operating leverage inherent in land that is when home prices rise, the value of the underlying land increases at an exponential rate.

As an example of our recent transaction, last quarter we closed in a partially developed master-planned community in suburban Phoenix which is reminiscent of our Cross Creek Ranch separate account and that all of the major capital improvements are in place and we bought them at a significant discount to cost.

We also acquired a prime piece of land just north of Los Angeles and will be positioned to sell homes at a lower price than our direct competition by virtue of a great land deal. Although we are still in the early stages of this fund, I feel very good about the quality of our initial investments as well as the growing pipeline of potential opportunities for Tricon XI.

I'll now turn the call over to Jonathan, who will provide you with an update on our U.S. Single-Family Rental Strategy.

Thanks, Glenn. As noted previously on the call at year-end, we owned 1,582 homes of which 1,504 were rental stock. Bringing that number forward to today, we currently own approximately 1,800 homes. Our portfolio is diversified across our target geographies with 10% to 20% of homes by dollar value owned in each of our major markets.

In terms of home price appreciation, referred to as HPA, most of our markets saw high-single-digit or double-digit HPA over the course of 2012 and John Burns, a leading real-estate economist and consultant projects that our target markets will generally see HPA between 22% and 43%, between 2013 and 2017. The vast majority of our markets were at the higher end of this range.

Charlotte, the laggard, is the market where we are targeting higher current yields and adding a high amount of incremental value through renovation in order to offset potentially lower long-term HPA. In spite of both higher median home prices in our target markets and the presence of institutional compensation, we are still able to buy one to two homes per day across our target geographies at values that we deem attractive in the context of growth rental yields and cap rates, discount to replacement cost, long-term affordability, and long-term pricing trends.

Over the course of this year, we expect to see our acquisition mix, generally shift from the West Coast to the East Coast. In that regard, although we do not have any immediate plans to enter into any new particular market, our primary focus for expansion would likely be East Coast markets.

From an operational perspective, we are keenly focused on managing throughput. That is the time it takes from the acquisition of our home to its lease-up, although specific situations may cause homes to take more or less time, our portfolio target is to have homes occupied 90 days after acquisition which we're achieving. Beyond that, we also closely monitor occupancy rates for homes that we've owned for at least six months, which we view as a long-term stabilized.

And I'm pleased to report that, as David previously referenced, these homes were about 95% occupied at year-end. We also monitor our underwriting compared to actual results. And our current leased-up portfolio is achieving 99% of underwritten rents with the vast majority of homes performing within a 2% tolerance of our underwriting.

As mentioned in the MD&A release this morning, during the quarter, we recorded a fair value adjustment of a nominal CAD 254,000 on a rental properties based on an AVM methodology. An AVM is essentially a computer algorithm that takes the permanent quantifiable characteristics of our homes, such as date of construction, square footage, number of bedrooms and bathrooms and geographic location and compares that information to a database of home closings. That database typically lags current market data by three to six months and includes both market rate and distressed sales.

Notwithstanding this, based on the AVM analysis at year end, our homes are valued at a premium of a 11% to their acquisition prices. This 11% increase does not show up in our income statement as an adjustment, as is offset by our upfront renovation costs. Based on the HPA that is occurred is projected for our markets going forward and the enhanced desirability of value created by our renovations, we believe that it's reasonable to expect further appreciation in our housing portfolio in the upcoming quarters.

Our leverage strategy also continues to unfold, as we have signed a nonbinding term sheet for CAD 100 million with the Global Bank which would allow us to continue our buying program with lower cost to capital and enhance cash-on-cash returns for our shareholders. In the wake of a Silver Bay IPO, other proposed forthcoming IPOs and the sizes of several large private equity powerhouses in this industry, many large U.S. and international banks have identified single-family rental as the target for real estate lending, which bodes well for the continued growth of our business.

This is a good example of we're having scale will provide a measurable long-term benefit to Tricon. Over the past months, we've received informal overtures from a number of competitors to merge or sell our portfolio at surprisingly high valuations at this stage of the game.

With that being said, we believe that our best strategy is to stay the course and continue to build our platform, recognizing that our assets will only become more and more attracted as we build scale and as the U.S. housing recovery continues.

I will now turn the call over to Gary to provide some additional insights on our 2012 performance and long-term strategic direction.

Thanks, Jon. As David noted at the outset of this call, our company has made significant strides in 2012. As some of you may recall at the end of last year, we were still in the fundraising process for Tricon XII. Tricon XI [indiscernible] (18:10) had a first close with no dedicated separate accounts and we're in the midst of exploring various business opportunities but didn't own any single-family rental homes.

Fast forwarding to today, Tricon XII ended up as our largest Canadian fund ever. More than doubling predecessor fund Tricon X, we raised over CAD 250 million for distressed U.S. land investments between Tricon XI and Cross Creek Ranch and we built portfolio of nearly 1,800 U.S. single-family rental homes which continues to grow.

As we look forward, our financial performance will continue to be driven by our asset management and principal investment businesses, however, our existing investment focus, namely the provision of equity capital for residential development and U.S. single-family rental, will gradually expand to include other opportunistic and related residential investments. As an asset manager, we expect separate accounts, joint ventures and side car investments rather than our traditional, co-mingled fund product to play more important role in generating fee income over the longer term.

Our principal investment business will likely to grow to include other verticals in addition to fund co-investments in U.S. single-family rental but not to the detriment of our asset management business. In fact, we believe that a strengthened principal investment business with multiple residential platforms will actually enable us to accelerate AUM [Technical Difficulty] (19:33) growth in the future as we broaden our investment offerings to meet the needs of our institutional investors and use our balance sheet to warehouse investments...[audio gap] (19:43)

...okay, okay. But the Cross Creek Ranch one, it is an unrealized gain, right.

Yes. But again it's third party...

Third party apprised.

Third party appraised and third party driven.

Got it.

In the Cross Creek – we have a 10% investment in Cross Creek, so essentially the majority of the capital comes from the third party whereas in the case of our single-family rental strategy, 100% is coming from the company.

Okay. And in terms of the professional and director fees, I think you guys in the MD&A talked about the bunch of one-times. What would you say would be the one-time items that impacted the quarter as it relates to that line item?

Hi, [ph] Jimmy (20:33), it's June speaking. The bulk of it relates to the single-family rental strategy getting the structure up and running, the closing of the five different rental operator agreements and then having a proper tax structure in place. So that pretty well lasted through the last half of 2012, as well as we were required to register as Investment Advisor on the SEC and so that again was a one-time non-recurring professional fees that were incurred. And of course because we've grown so much, we've had to increase our fees to our auditors and those fees have tripled in size. So all the combined, although that will – is not non-recurring – will continue to recur but it is an increase in the professional fees compared to prior years.

Okay. So, is that what to look – either run rate and how should I look at that, would it be CAD 300,000, CAD 400,000 a quarter, would be a fair estimate?

I would suggest being conservative on that, and we are continuing to look at new strategic initiatives, which always costs us money. So, I won't go as high as CAD 500,000 a quarter, but maybe somewhere in the CAD 400,000 to CAD 500,000 range a quarter, given that we're still looking at new initiatives.

Okay. Thanks.

Do you have any further questions [ph] Mr. Shan (22:23)?

No, I'm good, it's enough. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question will be coming from the line of Jenny Ma at Canaccord Genuity.

Good morning, everyone. Wanted to ask about the formation of the U.S. restructure, the Tricon American Homes LLC. Can you comment on the rationale for that, whether it's really a longer-term strategy in light of the increased competition to buy at U.S. housing, or if it's a more of an administrative accounting move?

Yeah. Hi, Jenny. It's Gary. It's largely tax-driven. We just think, from an ongoing operating perspective, it is more tax efficient for us being a Canadian or foreign investor investing in the U.S. to have this operated through a REIT.

And we also think long-term that we ever exit or sell our seller portfolio would to be a lot more efficient to sell from a REIT or – potentially entering a tax-free REIT merger. So the REIT is largely driven by tax. That being said, if you look at our competition in the U.S., they've all formed REIT even within the U.S. And so, I think if there's ever, if we ever down the road want to look at any kind of strategic opportunity, it make sense to be apples-to-apples in terms of the entity structure. So, it facilitates tax, planning, it also puts us apples-to-apples with our competition.

Okay. And maybe this is a question more for June, but with this is there going to be any one-time charges outflow through in Q1 for setting this up.

There might be some minor charges flowing through Jenny, but some of the charges are already in 2012 for it.

Okay. Now we're talking about the U.S. housing market really firming up, I want to get a sense from you whether your investment, if the returns are greater than expected or come sooner than expected. Do you focus more – is your endgame more focused on getting a set return that you're looking for or investing for a certain timeframe?

We're very much return-focused. And when we look at return it's not just IRR, which is really a time-driven value, but it's also our multiples. Sometimes you can make a short-term investment to generate a high IRR, but not a high-multiple. So we're looking at both. And in general, we're targeting returns roughly at a 20%, we recognized sometimes there is some leakage and we're looking for multiples of close to 2 times, so we're looking essentially double our money.

I think, with respect to the returns, I would say in Tricon XI, those returns were higher than what we would have expected. And with respect to Tricon IX in the U.S., we think the returns are potentially trending up, but given that the fund was invested several years ago, it's all cash and essentially we've got almost no leverage at the fund level.

Even if returns or the underlying market improves, it's very difficult for us to move the needle. Just given – the given when we invested the money the fact that there is no leverage. So, if anything in the U.S., we would expect a positive trend, but it doesn't mean it will have a meaningful impact on our Tricon IX portfolio, which should have a more meaningful impact on Tricon XI because we just invested the capital.

I guess, I was actually thinking more about the single-family homes like, I guess the another way to ask the question is to the extent that the returns to hit the target sooner than you expect, would you look at liquidating some of those assets sooner than you may have projected?

We're always evaluating. I think in terms of single-family, we're really projecting returns of 15% to 20%, and that comes through a combination of current yield, I talked about the kind of a 7.5% cap rate and potential home price appreciation or cap rate compression. So, we have to look at both, Jenny. The current operating performance and the future price appreciation and then make a determination whether we think it makes to exit depending on what we think the future holds.

At this point in time, although all the signs are very encouraging, we're seeing HPA, we're seeing – we think we'll see cap rate compression, we still think we're in the early days. We think there's a lots of runway here. We think that HPA can continue for many years certainly and most of the [indiscernible] (26:49) that. So, it doesn't make any sense. We can continue to achieve 15% or 20% returns over time, we're probably more likely to hold.

Okay. Now with regards to your target for single-family homes, in the past, you've mentioned about 3,000 in total from this program, in your MD&A you talk about targeting 3,000 to 4,000 by year end 2013. So, what has driven your shift in thinking and what can we think about in looking at 2014 acquisitions?

Well, the growth really comes from the latest convertible debenture offering. Those proceeds are largely a year mark for single-family rental. And in addition, we've obviously talked about the credit facility, which is [ph] a CAD 100 million (27:32). We could potentially have the ability to upsize that, but with the quantifiable proceeds from the convertible debenture and a [ph] CAD 100 million (27:42) credit facility, that's where we determined the 3,000 to 4,000 home portfolio. So, we're not assuming any other issuance. And with respect to 2014, I think at this stage it's too early for us to comment on that.

I think, we'll be happy to have a portfolio of roughly 3,000 to 4,000 homes by the end of the year, and then at that point I think we need to revaluate and see where the gross yields and cap rates are.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question will be from Wojtek Nowak of Fraser Mackenzie. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, everyone, and congratulations on a good year. The first question is here on the single-family rental business. I am curious if you could provide some color on lease-up times, so, i.e., when you acquire homes, what proportion of those are occupied by the people that were foreclosed upon and then for the ones that are sitting empty, what kind of channels are you're going through to lease those up and how competitive are those channels getting.

Wojtek, thanks. Thanks for the question and thank you for the compliment on our strong results. As I said earlier, our typical turnaround time target is 90 days, it really depends on a home-by-home basis and on the acquisition channels. Typically, if we're buying the home over the [ph] NLS (29:03) is going to be vacant when we acquire it, and so we can typically get in the home and get through the renovation process little quicker. If we're buying the home over the auction, in some cases there may be an existing person occupying the home, but actually still majority are vacant.

We then target four to six weeks turnaround time for renovation and again that varies home-to-home and market-to-market, and then typically in a lease-up schedule we expect the home to be leased in 30 days and we're actually generally ahead of that target when we're leasing up home. So I guess the main focus of your question was on lease-up time, and it's typically no more than 30 days.

Often in the case of some of our markets that are hotter where we're seeing stronger demands like Florida or Charlotte, we're actually able to lease up the homes during the construction period and have it occupied even sooner.

Wojtek, if I can just add to that, again a very few evictions that out of our 1,600 homes we maybe have to evict 30 tenants, so very few in the way of evictions. Also, as we mentioned in terms of our underwriting, we're basically bang on in terms of our underwriting, which I think is indicative of market demand that exists for rental.

Right. And can you just expand on the channels that you would be leasing through, and are other competitors going through the same channels?

Yeah. This is a business just like buying a home where it's not necessarily a rocket science, your channels through renting maybe listing on [ph] NLS (30:26) or some rental websites that are in the local market. A lot of it is actually done by signage, the vast majority of our lease-up is through drive-buys and so we have strong signage in front of our homes and then through listings on Craiglist which is as simple as that may seem and actually drives a lot of traffic.

Okay. Thanks for that. Secondly, I wanted to touch on the Cross Creek write-up, can you talk about the mechanics of what led to that increase in value?

Yes. We did a year-end appraisal that we required to do also for our pension plans partner, and through that appraisal they obviously look at comps, they also look at residual analysis to try to determine the underlying valuation of the land, and through that analysis that led a marked-up value.

I guess, can we expect that home price appreciation over the course of this year would again exponentially increase the value of the land and you could see more increases in value on that property.

It would be a function also of costs as well, because remember that's the other side, it comes down to the bottom-line. Definitely if house prices continue to rise as we expect, we would continue to see an increase in underlying value of the land, whether it would be exponential, it would be too early to tell at this time, but definitely there should be an increase.

Yeah, I mean we're obviously bullish on the U.S. housing market, we're bullish on home prices, we're bullish on underlying land values, but we just tell you to be careful in terms of trying to project increases in unrealized gains.

Sure. I'm just wondering is this Cross Creek valuation, is it more a function of the value of properties in the area or do they consider also how well the whole project is selling, et cetera?

It's a combination. The project itself is performing incredibly well. In fact, our sales are up about 60% year-over-year. So it's partly indicative of the performance of that project. Also Houston and Fort Bend County, the submarket as well. Single ranch versus adjacent was the top two or three selling master-plan in the U.S. last year with the 1,000 homes. So the whole market is looking really good.

Also with respect to costs, we bought Cross Creek Ranch roughly at [ph] $25,000 to $30,000 (32:58) an acre. A large public home builder just bought 1,200 acres adjacent to our property for roughly [ph] $45,000 (33:08) an acre and that land is non-entitled and non-serviced. So our buy looks very, very good in relation to that cost. So some of that was driven in the analysis.

Thanks for that. And just lastly, Gary, I wanted you to explain on your comment regarding opportunities for other direct investments – principal investments outside of what you have currently, what kind of things are you thinking of?

Yeah. I prefer not to comment on that specifically, there is nothing we're looking at that I would say is eminent or immediate, but we are evaluating other related housing strategies, again we want to stick to our knitting, but we do want to provide over time our shareholders with a more diversified residential offering.

The key thing for us is we only want to look at opportunities that can generate, let's say 15% to 20% returns where we can add value and make a difference, so we don't necessarily want to go into a crowded space. And we'll buy their time, we're not in a rush, but we are looking at different opportunities.

Great, thanks. That's it for me.

Thank you. Next is a follow-up from [ph] Jimmy Shan (34:21). Please go ahead.

Thanks. Just a couple of quick follow-ups. So, one is on Tricon XI, the second close that you're sort of expecting mid-year, what would be the magnitude of that second close? And then secondly, Jon maybe this is a bit too early, but on tenants whose leases are coming up for renewals or have been renewed, I wondered, sort of what are you seeing in terms of rent growth on those leases?

I'll answer first. It's our expectation and our hope is that it would be somewhere between CAD 50 million and CAD 100 million for the second close.

And then just for the second part of your question, in terms of rental growth, we have seen a few not necessarily in for a long-term trend, but generally the renewals we're seeing a 3% to 4% above the previous lease.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we do have a question from [ph] Jim Huang (35:32). Please go ahead.

Hi. So, I just have a question on your portfolio on the residential rental portfolio. Right now, it looks like about 49% of the value in California between the three areas. You did talk about diversifying more in East Coast, can you talk about what your target areas might be, and as far as the weightings in the portfolio, how heavy – how constitute you want it to be?

I think, as we discussed on the call, our weighting the portfolio and probably driven by opportunities. And as we mentioned, the foreclosure pipeline I would say in the West Coast market is beginning to slow, and it still remains strong on the East Coast market, so over time we'll have a shift from the West Coast to the East Coast.

In terms of our targets, we'd like to have an equally balanced portfolio. And I think that what we're doing right now is indicative of kind of our long-term expectations.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Next is a follow-up from Jenny Ma.

Hi. I just have a one quick modeling question. You talk about having a $1-million cash income distribution from Cross Creek in December. So, how – is that a recurring number, and if so how often does it recur?

It's [Technical Difficulty] (36:46) is non-recurring in nature. Obviously, the nature of our business is – our business of this particular project is ultimately to develop and sell the land. So each time as we sell it, and especially since we have very little of any debt on the project at all. Well, the proceeds from the sale will come into the investors, both Tricon and our institutional investors. So, we would expect to see cash flow on [ph] a irregular (37:13) basis through the next five years to six years to eight years.

Okay. That was a total of $1 million, so about $100,000 net to Tricon?

No. That was our share of the...

That was your share. Okay.

Yeah.

Yeah. With $10 million, our share was $1 million.

Okay. Okay. Thank you for clarifying.

Do you have any further questions, Ms. Ma?

No. Thanks.

Thank you. And at this time, Mr. Berman, we have no other questions registered.

Well, then, thank you very much operator. Thank you everybody for being with us. We enjoyed your questions and we look forward to hearing from you in May when we discuss the results of our first quarter. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference call for today. Once again, thank you for attending. At this time, we do ask that you please disconnect your lines. Have yourselves a great [Abrupt End]...