Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Babak Pedram — President, Virtus Advisory Group, Inc.
Alvaro Pombo — Founder, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ProntoForms Corp.
David Croucher — Chief Financial Officer, ProntoForms Corp.
Michael Cho — Senior Vice President-Global Sales, ProntoForms Corp.
David Kwan — Analyst, PI Financial Corp.
Gabriel Leung — Analyst, Beacon Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Sylvi and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to ProntoForms Second Quarter 2019 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Mr. Babak Pedram, you may now begin the conference.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us this morning. Before we begin, I will read our cautionary note regarding forward-looking information. Certain information to be discussed during this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of applicable Security Laws, including, among others, statements concerning the company's 2019 objectives, the company's strategies to achieve those objectives, as well as statements with respect to management's beliefs, plans, estimates and intentions, and similar statements concerning anticipated future events, results, circumstances, performance or expectations that are not historical facts.

Such forward-looking statements reflect management's current beliefs and are based on information currently available to management and are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Also, our commentary today will include adjusted financial measures, which are non-GAAP measures. These should be considered as a supplement to and not as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.

Reconciliations between the two can be found in our Management Discussion and Analysis, which is available on sedar.com and our website. And finally, note that because we now report in U.S. dollars, all amounts discussed today are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise indicated.

With that, I will hand over the call to our CEO, Mr. Alvaro Pombo.

Go ahead sir.

Thank you, Babak and thank you, Sylvi. Good morning everybody and welcome to our company's conference call. Before I hand the call over to our CFO, David Croucher to discuss this quarter's financials, I would like to take some time to discuss the ProntoForms business in terms of its strategy, our 2019 execution, and where we see the business heading over the next 24 months.

The engine of this company continues to be recurrent revenue and our main focus is to keep refining our business model to create more of it. Q2 was another good quarter for us as growth in recurring revenue increased by 5% over Q1 2019 to $3.3 million and our ARR base continued at 26% annual growth that is now six consecutive quarters of 5% or over growth.

Enterprise growth continues to be very favorable to us. Our largest accounts are now becoming even bigger. Today we have 30% of our base made of customers with more than $100,000 of ARR up from 23% in June 30, 2018. We have a base of more than 100 enterprise accounts with low penetration and now we have reached a good EBITDA level. We are continuing to invest in sales to perfect the motions to further penetrate these large accounts.

Also from a market perspective, the good news – the news is good. We have been selected by a lead IT analyst firm as a relevant niche player in a very large automation segment for building apps without requiring code. They need to enable line of business analysts to build apps to accelerate the company's digital transformation never being greater and our unique approach to enable the rapid building of field-centric apps has been clearly recognized. This is just the beginning of the journey of being a player in a well identified rapid growth market.

Another important element of our equation for getting closer to larger customers is our product. We hosted our first enterprise customer event in Ottawa this past June, and it was great. It was a great success. We share our product direction, new features, and approach to innovation and received a very good reception.

To wrap up, the demand for our product continues to grow. The complexity of field workflows is growing every day, more sensors, more digital twinning, more machine learning, more data ingestion requirements. Large organizations have made very clear decisions about enabling their line of business analysts with low code and self-serve application development capabilities. More intelligent workflows are needed in the field and the old way to dealing with them through building custom apps is not sustainable particularly for enterprise operations. Our product delivered on both needs at scale. So I see no end in sight to the problems we solve.

With that, I will hand over the call to Dave to discuss our financial performance for the quarter. Dave?

Thank you, Alvaro and good morning everyone. I'll go through the financial highlights, but I won't repeat all the detail included in our MD&A. I would prefer people to read that as well.

Total revenue for the second quarter of 2019 was $3.7 million representing a 5% increase over Q1 2019 and a 26% increase over the comparative Q2 2018. Of this total revenue, 90% was recurring. Recurring revenue in the second quarter was $3.3 million representing a 5% increase over Q1 and a 26% increase over the comparative Q2 2018.

In terms of revenue bookings ARR base at June 30, 2019 was $13.7 million representing a total increase of 26% year-over-year, and a 5% increase over March 31, 2019. As Alvaro mentioned our ARR base is shifting to a higher proportion of larger customers, customers with greater than $100,000 of annual equivalent of recurring revenue has grown to be 30% of our base versus 23% at June 30 last year. Revenue from professional services was $372,000 for Q2 compared to $358,000 in Q1 and $280,000 – $281,000 in Q2 2018.

Gross margin on total revenue for the second quarter was 84% up from 81% in Q1 and 83% in Q2 2018. This is a blended rate from both professional services and recurring revenue components. The recurring revenue portion was actually 90% of recurring revenue an increase from 89% in Q1 and 88% from Q2 last year. Operating expenses for the second quarter were $3.5 million up 7% over Q1. The increase in Q2 was primarily attributable to our continued investment in product and research and development.

Just to add a bit of color Alvaro mentioned that we are investing in sales and marketing as well and we did – it didn't have an impact on Q2, an increase over Q1 in sales and marketing, but we did add more head count later in the quarter. So we are continuing to invest there and we can go into more detail in the Q&A if people are interested.

Loss from operations for Q2 2019 was $417,000 up slightly from the first quarter of 2019 of $398,000 net loss was $530,000 effectively flat from $532,000 in Q1. Non-GAAP op loss for Q2 was $335,000, an increase from $286,000 from the first quarter of 2019 and a decrease from $582,000 from Q2 last year.

Our cash balance at the end of June was $5.75 million compared to $3.3 million at December 31, 2018. The increase in cash is attributable to the exercise of $2.4 million in warrants, also of note, cash flow from operations for the first half of the year was slightly positive. The biggest contributing factor here is the increase in cash from prepaid contracts offsetting a significant portion of the non-GAAP loss for those same six months.

In summary, we are pleased with the trends in our key metrics. We added 5% sequential growth in recurring revenue in the quarter adding to our string of steady growth there. Our enterprise base grew in proportion to our total base mostly through expansion of existing customers. Prepaid contracts from these customers contributed to our cash flow to mitigate our already reduced operating losses. Cash flow from operations was actually up slightly over the first six months of the year. Our non-GAAP op loss increased slightly as planned as we – and as we mentioned last quarter, as we grow revenue we want to reinvest that growth in the enterprise product development and sales capabilities. What we may see variability in growth in the short term, as we continue to build out our enterprise capabilities we are continuing to invest in sales and marketing to add depth and be able to take advantage of the continuing strong demand that we are seeing.

That concludes the financial highlights. With that, I'll ask the moderator to open up the line for questions. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will be from David Kwan at PI Financial. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys.

Hey, Dave.

Hey, Dave.

Good morning. Good job on the quarter. Jumping on the sales and marketing side. Dave, I think you've talked about some of the stuff that you are doing towards the end of Q2 that's going to impact Q3. Can you provide some more details there?

Yeah. So, just to put it in perspective, I guess Michael Cho started, not quite a year ago, he started Q3 last year, and really made some significant changes in the sales team going into 2019 as one would expect, reorganize the team. So, we did see a bit of change in that group and some turnover in Q1. Got back on track in Q2, and added some good strength, took a little while to add people there. He wanted to make sure he was getting the right people. So now, we've built that team up and we feel like it's got some bench strength going forward. Just to give you a sense I'll give you some numbers, so quota bearing reps at the end of last year were 10 reps, and then that decreased to about 8 reps by the end of Q1. And at the end of Q2 that was up to 12 reps, and mid quarter or so as of last week were up to around 15 reps. So, making good progress there.

No. That's helpful, Dave. Thanks for that. I guess is Michael and are you guys happy with that level now or is there plans to add some more?

Yeah. We're going to go you know we needed to make that gap up. And we feel like we've made good strides there, but we're not stopping. We want to keep building that team out, and makes sure that the growth rate there is consistent with the growth in the business at least and even more. So we want to – we don't want to be in a position where if you have changes within the group that that's a significant portion of the group, we want to make sure we've got lots there to get to critical mass so that any changes wouldn't have an impact.

I know these people that you guys are adding are they experienced reps and such they'll hopefully will get up the curve quickly, and get to their full course?

Yeah. We've added a few more in the States as well and they are. David I mean historically most of our sales came from marketing leads and then we started to add partner leads talking about the last couple of years. So they would really just have those leads qualified, and then they would jump in and work on closing them. The team that we're adding now are capable of certainly that plus doing more outbound being able to talk to enterprise reps, and we're getting into more IT as part of the sales, and those people would have more – better skill in that respect and maybe I'll pass it over to Alvaro to comment more on that.

I know and you said it well and all lines of business. I mean the commercial and the Enterprise continue to have substantial demand. So, yeah, we're going to push the gas pedal, and continue to do it. We've never been doing things crazy, I mean we're steady, and driven by numbers and productivity, and the numbers are there so we're going at it.

No, that's good to hear. I guess, looking at some of these rep sales that you've had pretty good growth today kind of the land and expand strategy a lot of the growth has been with existing customers. Do you feel that you're in a better position to kind of go out and win some larger deals with newer customers with this team in place or do you still expect kind of a continuation of the strong and steady growth within your existing customer base?

Yeah. Great question. I think we're starting to see that the combination of partners. What I mentioned there about that quadrant, and that recognition, I put a press release soon by that analyst firm. It's very relevant. I mean the space is very clearly delineated now. We have a very clear value proposition, and a very clear differentiation within that space, and I think that's bringing us into some very interesting conversations. So partnering activity continues, which is the fastest way to get to some of those IT or senior line of business, managers' conversations. So we're starting to see a lot more of them happening, a lot more interest as well from those large enterprises, it's still coming through our website, the description of what we do is very, I think is well placed, and you would see some tweaks, and moves, and changes refining it even further. So I think is working and we're getting to those conversations, yes, we are and feels good.

Okay. Perfect. On the R&D front that ticked up this quarter. Was there anything particular that drove the increase or was it just timing and kind of looking forward is this kind of the base that we see we're looking at in terms of our run rate?

There were a few different factors. First of all we had an IRAP program that we claimed in Q1 so that brought the expense down a little bit in Q1. So when you compare Q2 to Q1 that has an impact. What we did add was some strength from the product management, product marketing side. We got new tiers coming out, and they've been building that out, building the messaging, working with the analysts to come up with better communications to customers and out to the public. So built up some strength there and then, yeah did add some on the development team as well, but nothing as dramatic there, but we're going to continue to build that steadily, but really what you're going to see going forward is more growth in the sales and marketing area.

We're always – we have the – that IRAP program that ended in Q1. We're working on more so we'll see what comes through, but that's a nice thing where we can add head count, but not have the expense related to it.

Okay. Like you weren't using a bunch of subcontractors and what not, this quarter it was more in-house spend?

It was. We have a mix, but no real change to it, but what we've been doing is adding more in-house and we're always looking at different ways to bring in talented people internationally and we actually did bring in some people, five junior engineers that came in so adding a lot of depth to the organization, but less costly and they're getting great experience and we're getting great benefit from their capabilities so we're always looking at ways where we can add that.

No. Perfect. Just one more question for me on the gross margin side, nice to see the pickup here, was there anything going on that drove that and kind of how sustainable was it, how should we be looking at that line going forward?

Yeah, good question. So, on the recurring revenue, we had 90% so up a little bit. I think the way that that margin works or the way the cost of sales works against that is sometimes it's a bit of a step function. So we've been steadily growing the revenue base and the cost didn't go up quite as much so got the benefit there. Now that could and likely change going forward in terms of when we add new features there might be another step function in terms of a cost related to that, but nothing significant. So I think when you're talking margins it's been very consistent in that 88% to 90% range for a long time. So it might come up and down a little bit in that range, but still pretty steady there I think.

So I guess overall though including in the professional service side which can be a bit more lumpy kind of low 80% range is still kind of what we should be modeling in?

Yeah. So overall – so sorry just on the professional services [indiscernible] (00:19:11) over there. So actually it was pretty decent I think it was 29% in that area the of the margins there, and historically that's been lower and we've had a mix of we call it professional and other services. And the other services tends to be lower margin where we're doing marketing programs so a lot of it's more cost, third party costs that are involved there. We didn't have that in the last two quarters actually. So really it's been the production of that team that have been doing deployment services and those types of activities, so running at a pretty efficient rate and getting pretty much pretty close to 30% margin there so that that looks good. There will be always some variability up or down, but so that should be fairly consistent in that range. So overall that blended to 84% now that's a tougher one because it depends on the mix. But I think that's reasonable in that range maybe once again maybe a variability of 1% to 2%.

Sounds great. Thanks guys.

Yeah.

Thank you, Dave.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your next question will be from Gabriel Leung at Beacon Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. So a lot of details already have been provided, but maybe Alvaro you can talk a little bit about as you go through the sales process within the enterprise, are you going into scenarios where you're getting pushback from some of the smaller accounts who could become bigger accounts in terms of expanding? And what are some of the pushbacks you might be hearing from them or is it really just the timing thing in terms of if and when they deploy largely in U.S.?

Yeah. Good question. So I spoke last time about the 120, 140 large enterprise customers, our classification of large enterprise means 2,500 employees or more. So the first fact is that it continues to increase. So we keep on bringing new people in the top of the funnel with that characteristic, which goes back to the method and the positioning et cetera.

The second part of it is as you engage with them, the large existing ones put it the ones that have already bought on, they are expanding faster and deeper, which is a great set of – which is great news too. So, then the question is how do you take those in the middle, and what are the dynamics associated with them? What we're seeing is that there are two flavors of them, line of business, driven expansion, and on those we have used cases and it's just cycles. It is you're engaging with them. They use the product in a geography, we're expanding to another geography, and we go and it works. I mean this is starting to work. We have to add more resources to it. No question about it that's what we're doing and we're starting to see it coming through.

The other flavors that is the one that is attached, closer to analyst report that I mentioned. It's an IT driven expansion, and that's a very important one to talk about. That's one where IT is now saying I need a tool to enable more line of business or self-serve automation and that's a very powerful one. And that's the one that we have a product for them and we're tweaking a little bit more of the messaging. And that's one where we're starting to see a new source of documentation. So as you can hear from what I just said I mean there are different flavors of them. We're specializing in different motions to go after.

Got you. One more question. Just as we think about M&A and maybe the future evolution of your platform. You know at this point you guys are obviously focused on what you have in place right now, the process you have in place right now, and getting deeper into your – some of your existing customers, but where – what is the thought process in terms of how this platform is going to evolve over time? What major pieces do you think you could add to it whether it be workflow related or maybe content management related? Is that something you guys are thinking about? Is that something we can expect to see in the near future?

Yeah. So I think I'll go back to the same analyst piece which basically said they call it the definition of the space more clearly. So what – the first part that is happening is that the forms story – I'm going to say something and I will characterize it in a second. The forms story is past, okay. A form, what is it? A set of questions and answers that was an easy way to get these people to look at a workflow, and building an app that it was done in an efficient manner.

I think that's behind and with that, will leave as well a set of competitors and a set of capabilities because we have a top notch product that does that, and a lot more. So as we've been enhancing that product, we're getting into some of the things you mentioned. I mean which is sort of like how do workflows operate? How do you ingest better data in the field? How do you do a lot of those things where our product is very good and differentiates against many people? And then in the bigger picture is going to be okay, so what kind of LCAP tool we want to be, okay and in the current positioning, I mean as we are a field centric one and the field centric gives us a set of issues that we're going to continue to specialize on.

So from now on, yes, bringing new technologies whether we are aiming or in the future, we can be looking at all their ways of bringing those technologies in to get deeper in that area, we had hired some help to size how big that market is and the verticals that we're going after and is very, very sizable. So there is no end in sight to that thought process, and then as we continue to evolve it, yes, now we're in a position where we're adding people we have a good balance sheet. We have more cash. We have a lot more freedom to entertain some of those higher growth thoughts. We are talking about those already.

I got you. Sorry Dave, one last question. So sorry to make you repeat yourself but I missed the part about sales and marketing and what additional costs or head count additions we should expect to see in Q3?

Okay. Well, I went through the numbers and I'll just repeat them. So we ended the year at – 2018 we ended the year with 10 producing reps and that was down a little bit to 8 producing reps at the end of Q1 and up to 12 producing reps at the end of Q2, and then mid Q3 we're at about 15 producing reps, and we want to continue to add – at the pace of the business or more in that area – more in that area until we get to a critical mass where in Q1 I think we were a little bit like eight quota bearing reps. They were mostly making their living off of the existing customers that were expanding and we had very good leads coming in from other sources and just weren't being dealt with enough attention. So now that we have more depth in the organization if we make any changes or anything happens then we have that critical mass to carry on, and then we want to get into a good rhythm continuing to go forward, a good rhythm of adding reps at either the pace of our growth or even a little more to make sure we're ahead of it not falling behind that. So our priority is growth, and we want to make sure we're feeding that at the right level.

Got you. Thanks for the feedback and thanks a lot guys.

Okay. Pleasure. Thank, Gabriel.

Thanks, Gabriel.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And at this time, we have no other questions. So I would like to turn the call back to Mr. Pombo.

Thank you, Sylvi. We see stronger demand, as I said, supported by industry experts and we believe that we're on the right track investing in our enterprise product and sales team to take full advantage of that. We're very excited about what's ahead for the business. Once again, thank you very much everyone for spending your time with us this morning. And as always, I would like to thank as well -- thank you all for your continued support. Have a good day.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this does indeed conclude your conference call for today. Once again, thank you for attending. And at this time, we do ask that you please disconnect your lines. Enjoy the rest of your day.