Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Eric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steven J. Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Brent Windom — President and Chief Operating Officer, Canadian Automotive Group
Peter C. Sephton — Chief Executive Officer, The Parts Alliance
Gary O'Connor — Strategic Advisor, Canadian Automotive Group
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Jake Turcotte — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Elizabeth Johnston — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Ruth and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Uni-Select, Inc. 2017 Third Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Louis Juneau, Chief Legal Officer, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Ruth. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Presenting this morning are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; and Eric Bussières, CFO. Following their comments, we will open the call for questions. Joining us today for your questions are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster USA; Brent Windom, President and COO of Automotive Canada; Gary O'Connor, Strategic Advisor and former President and COO of Automotive Canada; and Peter Sephton, CEO and President of The Parts Alliance.

Please note that all documents referred to in today's conference call, including this webcast presentation, can be found on our website, uniselect.com in the Investors section. As noted on slide 2, I would like to remind you about a caution regarding forward-looking statements applied to our presentation and comments. All amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars, except as otherwise specified.

With that, let me turn the presentation over to Henry.

Great. Thank you, Louis. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'd like to invite you to turn to slide 3 of the document posted on our website for the call.

In the third quarter of 2017, Uni-Select made solid progress on its strategic initiatives. As part of our third pillar, growth initiative, we closed on August 7 the acquisition of The Parts Alliance, a UK leader in the distribution of aftermarket parts for a total cost of $263.6 million fully financed by debt. Seven weeks of The Parts Alliance results have been integrated into the Uni-Select third quarter results.

After this acquisition, we continued working on all three segments and concluded two additional smaller acquisitions, bringing the total store count company-wide to 444. Our total sales reached $395.8 million, up 24.3% from the last year, of which $55.7 million was the contribution from The Parts Alliance acquisition. The Canadian Automotive Group, with a solid 7.7% organic growth, was up 14.8%, but up 10.4% normalized for foreign exchange translation.

FinishMaster sales increased by 2.1%, mainly from recent business acquisitions, partly offset by the product line changeover and the hurricanes in Texas and Florida, two important markets for FinishMaster. EBITDA reached $32.2 million or 8.1%. However, EBITDA adjusted for the cost of The Parts Alliance transaction and the reversal of the restructuring cost was $33.9 million or 8.6% of sales. Net earnings were short from our expectations at $11.2 million or $0.26 a share and adjusted earnings were $15.1 million or $0.36 a share. Accordingly, we have launched across the company a 20/20 initiative that we'll discuss further on this call.

Now, turning to FinishMaster USA, sales in the third quarter were up 2.1%, driven by business acquisitions, with an EBITDA margin of 11.8%. The impact of the product line changeover, combined with the impact of the hurricanes in Texas and Florida, was approximately 7% of sales. We continue to expand our geographic coverage of the U.S. and we have opened three greenfield locations this year, including Portland, Nashville and one in Georgia. The objective of these is to be EBITDA positive within 12 months.

Our strategy remains the same as we look to expand geographic coverage and build density in key markets. We continue to accelerate our focus on organic growth and have specific initiatives for our traditional and MSO refinish customers. So far, we are satisfied by our progress in the Industrial Coatings initiative and we're taking the necessary steps to ensure that we are building a strong foundation for growth. The product line conversion is nearing the end with an expected negative 1.2% headwind in the fourth quarter and no material comparison effective in 2018.

In addition to these growth initiatives, we continue to focus on integrating our business acquisitions but have added a company-wide operational initiative called 20/20. At FinishMaster, we have stepped up our efforts and are aligning our cost base to reflect the current business volumes. We're also focusing on our cost to serve to ensure we are highly efficient and delivering appropriate business returns. This is a company-wide effort and Eric will speak more to it in his section.

Turning to page 5 to the Canadian Automotive Group, we achieved another very strong sales and earnings quarter with organic sales growth of 7.7% and EBITDA of 8% of sales. Sales were positive with our independent driver customers, as well as both our BUMPER to BUMPER and FINISHMASTER corporate stores. With over 90% of our sales being to commercial customers, we have always been and continue to be designed to service this customer segment.

As we announced last quarter, we have a new President and COO for Canada in Brent Windom. He has over 30 years' experience in the industry and previously 12 years with Uni-Select. He has extensive experience with both independent customers and developing and operating corporate store networks. He and Gary O'Connor have been working extremely well for the transition period ending at the end of this year. Once again, it's my pleasure to personally, and on behalf of our company to recognize and thank Gary O'Connor, for all of his contributions over the last 12 years with Uni-Select. Thank you, Gary.

The Canadian team continues to be focused on building a strong foundation and platform for growth. The rollout of our BUMPER to BUMPER brand to independent customers and corporate stores is on track. The corporate store integration, including the PartsWatch point-of-sale system, is progressing, which is critical in improving customer service and delivering synergies. We continue to build out our product offer, enhance our product cost synergies. As a result, we have become a member of the Nexus Global Buying Group, of which Parts Alliance is a founding member.

As noted in the FinishMaster section, we are also highly focused on improving our productivity and efficiency across the company. And we have a number of initiatives underway in Canada as part of our 20/20 initiative. In the third quarter, we're very pleased to acquire Dash Distributors, a well-respected auto parts distributor in Alberta.

Now turning to page 6, we could not be more pleased to have closed the acquisition of The Parts Alliance in the UK on August 7. We're reporting only seven weeks of performance, but on a standalone basis in the period, the business achieved total sales growth of 7.9% and 3.5% on an organic growth on a standalone basis. The period included August which is one of the slowest months of the year. Our EBITDA was lower than we expected for the period as a result of the slower volume month and some integration work underway.

We are still expecting a 6.5% annualized EBITDA margin. The Parts Alliance is in growth mode with the acquisition of BBC Superfactors in September adding seven store locations. The team is also very good at expanding through the opening of greenfield store openings. We opened one in each of May and June this year and we're pleased to advise that they are both EBITDA positive. There were two additional store openings in October post quarter-end and we have more planned in Q1 2018.

The Parts Alliance team is highly focused on the integration of recently acquired businesses and we expect that focus will reflect in the synergies and cost savings over the coming months. We have a very strong leadership team in the UK with solid processes driving the integration work. In addition, The Parts Alliance team has also launched work aligned with our company-wide 20/20 initiative. And we are working actively on driving the identified synergies between both organizations.

This includes our automotive parts supplier base both national and private brands. On the company integration front, we are on track in the key areas such as procurement and finance. Most importantly, we could not be more pleased with the exceptional cultural fit of our teams. Having spent significant time with them, it's clear The Parts Alliance team is highly engaged and excited about taking the business to the next level together.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Eric for his financial overview.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. I now invite you to turn to slide 8. Consolidated sales for the third quarter reached $396 million, an increase of 24.3% against the third quarter 2016. Although the consolidated organic growth was impacted by the product line changeover in the U.S. and the hurricane in Florida and Texas, when excluded these elements, the combined organic growth would have been approximately 2.1% compared to negative 2.3% for the quarter.

Sales from FinishMaster USA reached $206 million, up 2.1% against the prior year third quarter, mainly from the contribution of the various business acquisitions. The Canadian Automotive segment sales rose to almost $134 million, an increase of 14.8% against the third quarter 2016. Net of foreign exchange translation benefit, the extra billing day and the benefit from the acquisitions, the organic growth was 7.7% for the quarter. The strong sales in Canada are mainly attributable to our various sales initiatives and the favorable Canadian economy conditions in our key markets.

With seven weeks of results included in Uni-Select, The Parts Alliance business generated almost $56 million of revenue in Uni-Select consolidated results or 14% of our total revenue in the quarter. It should be noted that the month of August and December tend to be the softer months for The Parts Alliance business and this August was no different than the prior year. Uni-Select business is seasonal. And, as we've mentioned in the past, Q1 and Q4 tend to be our softer sales quarter and Q2 and Q3 tends to be our strongest.

Turning to slide 9, our third quarter consolidated adjusted EBITDA was $33.9 million compared to $30.8 million last year, an increase of 10%, driven by the strong contribution from our Canadian operation that more than offset the lower EBITDA margin at FinishMaster and the partial contribution for The Parts Alliance during the quarter. The adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was 8.6% compared to 9.7% last year.

The EBITDA margin erosion is mainly explained by a different business model at The Parts Alliance and a lower EBITDA margin contribution at FinishMaster compared to an unusually strong performance in Q3 2016, partly compensated by the strong contribution of the Canadian Automotive Group during the quarter.

Please turn now to slide 10. Adjusted earnings for the third quarter were $15.1 million or $0.36 a share compared to $0.41 a share for the same period last year. The $0.05 difference is due to the increased intangible assets amortization and increased financing costs related to the acquisitions.

The blended tax rate for Q2 was 40.9% compared to 32.1% for the same quarter last year. The increase in the tax rate is due to the certain non-deductible expenses tied to the acquisition cost of The Parts Alliance. Normalized for these expenses, income tax rate would have been approximately 31%. During the quarter, we incurred approximately $2.3 million in transaction expense linked to the acquisition of Parts Alliance.

Please turn now to slide 11. In view of the third quarter's softer than expected performance at the EPS level, we are regrouping and accelerating certain initiatives across the three core businesses by launching our 20/20 initiatives, saving $20 million of annualized operating cost by the end of 2020. The focus will be on reducing our cost to serve by accelerating the capture of certain synergies linked to the various acquisitions, improve our productivity level and bring more variability in our cos structure.

As of now, we have already identified approximately 50% of our targeted number with specific measurable activities. The benchmark that we will be using are as follows. For the Canadian Automotive Group and FinishMaster, we will be tracking those initiatives against the Q2 average operating costs. For The Parts Alliance, we will be tracking the savings against the third quarter run rate.

Those initiatives are all geared towards improving or maintaining our overall EBITDA margin. More details will be shared on the progress of these initiatives over time and we will be integrating all those processes into our regular guidance. I would like now to give you a quick update on the overall transaction cost linked to The Parts Alliance acquisition. Year-to-date, the total transaction cost, excluding the FX option protection, is approximately $10 million and we expect the total cost to reach approximately $11 million. Of that amount, we have capitalized $2.4 million linked to the refinancing cost.

Moving to slide 12, as previous mentioned, sales are up 24.3% compared to the same quarter last year, mainly in relation to the acquisition of Parts Alliance. You will note that the gross margin increased by 1.8% to 32.5% compared to last year. Gross margin was positively impacted by The Parts Alliance acquisition which has a higher gross margin than the other segments and the improved performance in Canada that we partly offset by the somewhat lower gross margin FinishMaster, mainly due to revenue mix and the lower contribution from opportunistic purchases. Adjusted EBITDA rose by 10% for the incremental value contribution, mainly from The Parts Alliance and Canadian operation.

Please turn now to slide 13. After nine months, our sales are up 14% compared to the last nine months of the prior year. Excluding the product line changeover and the hurricane in the U.S., consolidated year-to-date organic growth would have been approximately 1.2%, while net of those two elements year-to-date organic growth is negative 3.6%. During the first nine months of 2017, we acquired nine businesses, a total of 194 stores, integrated 12 stores, opened four greenfield and ended the third quarter with a total of 444 stores across our three businesses. Adjusted EBITDA is up 8.8% to $89.5 million compared to $82.3 million for the same period last year.

Please turn now to slide 14. For the third quarter, consolidated cash flow from operating activities totaled $49.3 million, down $2.2 million compared to Q3 2016, mainly due to The Parts Alliance acquisition cost. Free cash flow amounted to $35.5 million compared to $37.6 million last year for the same reasons mentioned before. Business acquisitions required $277.8 million of investments and CapEx totaled $4.7 million during the quarter. Those investments were mainly funded by debt.

As it relates to the evolution of our working capital, net of The Parts Alliance acquisition, we had a good collection rate at FinishMaster that resulted into lower trade receivables and corresponding into a cash influx during the quarter. Some additional investments were made in our inventory. However, they were fully funded by our supply chain financing agreement. Change in the net working capital resulted into a positive contribution of $9.4 million for the quarter.

Please turn now to slide 15. At the end of September, outstanding total net debt stood at $439 million from $189 million at the end of the last quarter, an increase of $250 million due to the acquisition of Parts Alliance. Including The Parts Alliance contribution, the funded debt to adjusted last 12 months run rate EBITDA stood at 3.14 times at the end of September. At the end of the third quarter, we had $234 million available under our credit facility.

To summarize the quarter, I invite you to turn to slide 16. We launched our 20/20 initiatives across the three businesses. Our third quarter cash flow from operating activities was down at $49.3 million despite acquisition cost in relation to The Parts Alliance purchases. The consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 8.1%. Adjusted earnings amounted to $15.1 million or $0.36 a share. The Parts Alliance acquisition closed on August 7, 2017. And now, we have a network of 444 stores from 273 stores at the beginning of the quarter.

This completes my financial review. Back to you, Henry.

Thank you, Eric. Ruth, I'd now like to open up the call to questions from the group.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Anthony Zicha with Scotiabank. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Tony.

Yes. Hi. Good morning. With reference to FinishMaster, could you give us a bit more color on the negative organic growth in the quarter if we adjusted for ex-hurricanes and the product line changeover? And when do you expect positive organic growth to be achieved? You also mentioned, Henry, that FinishMaster was experiencing, what, a minus 1.2% headwind in Q4. Could you give us also more color on that?

Yeah. I'd be happy to. Maybe I'll let Steve sort of answer straight up.

So, Tony, the product line changeover, as we've been talking about all year, has affected that organic growth. And then coming into the end of the fourth quarter, the hurricanes in two of our largest trading areas had an impact on that. But I can tell you that very pleased with the result in October for organic growth and you'll see the reduction of the BASF product line changeover in our numbers as we complete the year.

Yeah. I think the good news is that – the good news and the bad news we had a product line changeover. That's impacted us 6% in Q3 and that starts to go away. So that going away to 1.2% impact in the fourth quarter and then dissipates to no material impact in 2018, I think, that's good news. The hurricane clearly is not. Let's all cross our fingers. We're not in the season now but it's not a repeatable event. So we go back into base industry growth. And I think one of the things that we're highly committed to doing is driving organic growth initiatives with each of our customer segments. And that's something that Steve has and he's getting some early signs in October. We're focused on driving that base organic growth. So, as we come into Q4, we look to see that step-up and deliver results.

Okay. Super. Is there any way of quantifying the cost attached to the hurricanes in the quarter?

Well, we did actually. We looked at that approximately 1%. So, we said that's the quantification of the impact of store closure. Steve, you had a number of stores closed in Texas for – I think four there and another 21 impacted in Florida?

Yeah, 21 in Florida. And, Tony, we can – as we did talked about the impact that we believe, but there is a longer-term impact that we will not really know how many of our customers are still being affected that we don't see. I will say this that we were very fortunate that our stores received very little damage. And we had great neighbors. We had great partners that helped us get back moving forward right away. But it's the softer cost that we don't understand now of how many shops are still slow, how many cars are not back into the repair cycle. I don't have a number for that but it's going to be with us for a little while.

Yeah. I mean if you think about Texas, for example, when cars get flooded out, they are not getting repainted. They are going up to buy new cars at that point.

Correct.

And that's not helpful for us in any sort of recovery mode. So, I think, that's just the reality of what that is. Florida had a different event and they seem to have more, sort of, collateral damage as opposed to flooding. So that may recover over time. But our customers and shops were affected. We have a number of customer shops that were damaged to the point where they wouldn't reopen. So, that's something that, as Steve says, is kind of an ongoing hangover effect for us.

Tony, it's Eric. Also our estimate of the impact on FinishMaster of the storm itself is about $500,000.

Okay. Super. Yeah. And the last question, what's behind the strong performance in Canada? Is Western Canada driving the improvement?

I think if you ask Brent, he would say Brent. To be fair, I think, we've got an economic headwind pretty much all across the country. The [ph] berries (22:28) have rebounded. As we've seen over the last 12 months we've been on these calls, we've seen better performance there. I think, generally speaking, we've got a pretty good sort of tailwind in terms of the Canadian economy, but I don't take away for a second all of the stuff we've been working on for the last few years in terms of sales initiatives. We're starting to see very significant returns, whether that be the BUMPER to BUMPER branding, the increased loyalty from independent customers. Because of that, our corporate stores are driving growth and we had a very good quarter in terms of FinishMaster. Maybe, Brent, you can talk about some of the things that impacted us at FinishMaster in Canada?

No. Historically, the PBE sector announces their price changes in the fourth quarter. We see a heavy buy in anticipation for that. They announced a little bit earlier this year, approximately about 30 days. So we were able to pull forward some of those PBE purchases in Q3, although normalized in Q4. But, overall, even with that, we had a very, very significant growth in Q3. We expect to continue to have a very strong finish.

Great. Well done.

Yeah. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Tony.

Your next question comes from Benoit Poirier with Desjardins Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Benoit.

Yeah. I was wondering if you could provide more color around the EBITDA margin at Parts Alliance of 4.1%. When you closed the acquisition, you were running at a run rate of 7.5%. And I just want to have also a feeling about Q4 in light of a softer month for December and what we could expect from Parts Alliance going forward?

Yeah. Thanks, Benoit. It's a good question. Obviously in the quarter, we were a little disappointed with the EBITDA returns at 4.1%. What we said before is that that business is operating on a different cycle than we are but that cycle is going to deliver somewhere in the zone of 6.5%. I think the point for us is we look to push that up towards 7-plus percent over time. So, something that really impacts it is two things. One is the seasonality. And in this business – and we knew this going in, August is the second slowest month of the year and we're very fortunate to close in August. So, we have to deal with that. So, that's seasonality and we'll see a bit of that, quite frankly, in Q4 with December being the slowest month of the year.

So, the seasonality in Europe and in Parts Alliance is different than as what Eric explained in Canada where [ph] our four in one are (25:14) slow. Typically, we got August and December in seasonality in Parts Alliance. So, that's kind of one event. And I'll say the other part is that they had done a number of acquisitions and they had a lot of integration work underway and that stuff is not paying dividends until the cost reductions in that business until the fourth quarter. So, we're starting to see the benefit of the EBITDA rise up in the fourth and particularly in the first and the second quarter as a result of that integration work. So, the team has been all over the integration of those acquisitions. And, quite frankly, this is just a sort of cost component that hit us in the shorter period.

Okay. So, if I look at Q4, would it be fair to expect some improvement on the EBITDA margin or given December is the slowest month we could even see some contraction on the margin side?

No. Benoit, it's Eric. We don't expect contraction at the EBITDA margin level in Parts Alliance. In fact, we would expect a slight increase in the EBITDA margin in Q4. As Henry said, there are some clear actions that have been taken on the integration side and we don't expect necessarily some of those costs to be repeated. So, we would expect a slightly better margin in Q4.

Yeah. We iterated on the slide, our expectation is this business is 6.5% annualized. So, that's the annualized rate. And our objective is to move that up from 6.5% towards 7%. That is the objective on a 12 month basis.

Okay. Could you discuss a little bit also, gentlemen, about the mix issue at FinishMaster during the quarter?

This is Steve. The mix continue to be effected when we add additional MSO business. Those are our larger customers that require different pricing profiles. And so, as they buy some of the more profitable businesses and our mix changes, that's something that's been going on for the last few years and we'll continue to see as that segment increases.

Yeah. So, to be clear on that, if they buy one of our existing customers – and being the largest PBE supplier in North America, if they buy one of our existing customers at a higher gross margin rate, you get kind of a double hedge. You lose the higher gross margin and then you replace it with a lower gross margin. So, you keep the sales line but you're moving the gross margin line. And I think we've been talking about it and we continue to talk about it. That's part of the 20/20 initiative. We're really looking at our cost to serve for all of our customer segments in all businesses. So, making sure that we can continue to be profitable with an MSO margin that is obviously less than what a traditional customer would be. So, that's something we're highly focused on, making sure we're able to have a profitable business with MSOs.

Okay. And last one for me. Could you comment a little bit about the pipeline for M&A in light of your financial position?

I think we're still wide open to the right opportunities. I think we're certain we're not as aggressive as we were. We're very focused on making sure we have a balanced approach here. So, we'll continue to acquire companies, select companies where it makes sense. You saw us do that in the quarter in the UK at BBC Superfactors. And you saw us do it in Canada with Dash Distributors. So, we're going to continue to do what makes sense. And, of course, it's a balanced approach for us.

We're continuing to make sure we focus on bringing our debt-to-EBITDA ratio down. So, we're not unhappy where it is right now, but like we've said all along, our view is the business long-term will be a 2, 2.5 EBITDA basis on the long-term. And we'll stretch up to 3.5 and then bring it back down over time. And we're in the bringing-it-back-down-over-time mode, but we couple that with select acquisitions in quite frankly all of our businesses.

Okay. Thank you for the time.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thanks, Benoit.

Your next question comes from Leon Aghazarian with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Leon.

Morning, guys. Morning.

Morning.

So just a follow-up on Benoit's question and sorry for kind of harping on that a little bit. So for The Parts Alliance, I mean when you did make the acquisition, it was kind of an earlier documentation that it was around the 7.5% EBITDA margin. Just wondering why you're talking about it as being a 6.5% on an annualized basis now. Is that related to some of the acquisitions that they've made and, therefore, just like you were mentioning integration cost? I'm just trying to understand what the difference is there, first of all. And then, secondly, as what Eric said, if you're expecting just a marginal improvement in margin from Q4 to Q3, then that would imply that Q1 and Q2 would have to be significantly higher than those numbers to average out to 6.5%. So, just trying to get a sense of the EBITDA margin run rate, just to be clear on that and on a quarterly basis as well.

Well, let's tackle the business itself in terms of the seasonality. So maybe, Peter, you can share with us where we are.

Yeah. Leon, I mean, you're right that quarter one and quarter two calendar next year, you will see seasonally adjusted a big increase in our level of trading. And with the cost reduction exercise that we're being conducting over the past three to four weeks and continuing to quarter four this year, that's where you see the uplift. So, that will average out the EBITDA percentages. So, you're right. It is a big up there. December is just the weakest month of the year. I guess it's the same over here in Canada as well. So, it's just – impact the quarter four EBITDA for anyone that's in this market or in this type of market. So, that's where you'd see the big increase.

Yeah. And in terms of the ongoing EBITDA rate, that's always where we've said it started baseline for us, was 6.5%, in our objective, right? And that's our discussions all along that we believe the business is a 7%, 7.5% business over time, not in the immediate future. And that's what we paid for the existing business, based on a 6.5%.

And there are some ongoing integration costs. We acquired over the past four years 12 businesses. We are part way through that integration. We acquired another two recently. So that integration cost will stay with us for some period of time. That will be slightly diluted to EBITDA margin, but over time that will come back to us.

Okay. And then on the 20/20 initiative, can you give us – I mean I know you referenced the Q2 and the Q3 for the respective regions as being in terms of the operating as a benchmark I should say. Can you give us a sense of why you're comfortable with that being the benchmark going forward? Like what gives you confidence that is the right kind of metric to be looking at? What are some of the kind of concrete initiatives that you're looking at in terms of doing?

So, Leon, it's Eric. There is a multiple pronged approach. Why we're confident? Because we know our cost base in Q2 for FinishMaster in Canada and we think that's a fair starting point in terms of the actions that are to be underway and additional actions that will be taken to optimize and be more efficient. And it's nothing more complicated than that. The reality is we have to adjust and be more competitive and we will continue to do so. Parts Alliance, well, we just acquired it, so obviously Q3 is my only real reference point at this point to work on our cost structure.

Yeah. And let me put some context around this. We didn't wake up and see our EPS was up this quarter and decided to scramble and do something. We've been working on this stuff from day one. We've just never kind of called it out on these calls and shared the initiatives with you. We started this work in FinishMaster in Q2. So, as an example, this had already been underway there. It had been underway a little bit in Canada in different – in references and we're just launching it in Parts Alliance. So it's not something that we just jumped up and we're surprising people with. This has been an ongoing initiative but it's the first time that we're going to share it with you.

Okay. And the final one for me would be just on FX. I mean, obviously, now with your exposure to the British pound and now with Canada as well and USD, any type of hedging that's been going on, anything new on that front to mitigate some of this risk in the fluctuations of those three currencies?

Well, I think, Leon, there's two things, right? First one and foremost is you cannot hedge non-cash elements, meaning that conversion rates – if The Parts Alliance business is at pound to the U.S. dollar at $1.3, I mean, in the conversion aspect, you don't hedge that. You can't do that. There's no cash behind it to hedge. The only hedge that you'll see is in the respective businesses. Parts Alliance, for instance, purchase goods and services out of China, out of India and different currencies than their operational currency. That is and can be hedged. The same thing goes with the Canadian operations. Canada does buy some goods and services in U.S. dollars. Their functional currency is obviously Canadian and therefore you'll take hedges on that. As it relates to the FinishMaster, there's no FX risk in the sense that pretty much everything they buy is in U.S. dollar and all their revenue is in U.S. dollars and expenses are in U.S. dollars. So, you can't hedge conversion but you can certainly hedge FX risk, per se, when you actually have cash payments.

Thank you, guys.

Thanks, Leon.

Your next question comes from Jonathan Lamers with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jonathan.

Good morning. On the 7% impact to FinishMaster's organic sales, can you breakdown for us how much was the product line changeover and how much was from the hurricanes?

Yeah. It's 6% from the product line changeover and about 1% from the hurricanes. So, again, the product line changeover, as I stated earlier, is going to diminish down to 1.2% impact in the fourth quarter and not material for 2018.

Okay. And, Eric, just to clarify. On the $0.5 million in impacted that you flagged to cost from the hurricanes, what's included in that? Is that just the direct damage to the stores?

No, no, no. The damage to the stores were very limited. That's more the fact that we kept paying all our employees when we had no revenues. Basically, all my fixed cost and all my employees were paid during that period of time, which is absolutely the right thing to do as a corporation when people are having a challenging period. And that's the cost base. You don't have the revenues to offset those expenses and our estimate is about $0.5 million.

Okay. And do you expect any insurance recoveries as you recover from the -

No. The amount is not big enough for business continuity claims. There might be some small claims as it relates to physical damages and that's something that the FinishMaster team is looking at but it's very small amount, Jonathan.

Okay. And for FinishMaster, Steve mentioned that the results so far in October have been good. Was there any uptick in price inflation? I know before you were expecting some improved price inflation for Q3.

Jonathan, this is Steve. We did see price increases late in the third quarter, so there will be a little effect on that going forward in the fourth. As Brent said, some of that stuff was pulled forward because the paint companies did announce a little bit earlier than usual. So, we'll see a little benefit in the fourth.

Okay. And is that the source of improvement in Q4 or are you seeing some improved underlying volume demand?

No, that's not at all source. I mean, we have just seen good results from again all the initiatives that we have been working on all year. We talked earlier on the last call about the softness in the market which we see is starting to subside. So, we're seeing business improvements, which is definitely helping.

Thanks. And switching gears to Canada, the product line changeover that was mentioned as benefiting margins this quarter, was that a one-time benefit?

Yeah. Yeah. That's just a one-time benefit.

Okay. And can you quantify what the benefit was this quarter?

Yeah. The benefit for the quarter linked to that product line changeover was about a $1 million, $1.5 million. I will say that it's not unusual in the auto parts business that we do some product line changeover on different categories. And when those happens you may have a bit of a benefit when you do that.

Okay. And could you just update us on the point-of-sale investments and the BUMPER to BUMPER investments? Do you continue to expect that those will start to roll-off at the end of Q4 and then finish in the early 2018?

Yeah. It's a good question, Jonathan. If you look at the guidance we had provided at the beginning of the year on CapEx, we think that will be slightly under that guidance by $1 million to $2 million overall for the combined FinishMaster and CAG business. The main driver from this is we have decided to delay some of the implementation, short-term, on The Parts Alliance on the – sorry, on the PartsWatch system. So, some of that expense will be pushed to Q2, Q1 2018. So it's more a timing element than anything else. But, otherwise, we're on track in the deployment and in terms of what we've done. So far, we have completed 33 stores and we expect to do the balance which is about 29 stores towards the early part of the second half of 2018.

Will be completed by -

Will be completed.

Will be completed, yeah. Yeah. And I think that's the same as any other one. We're going to make sure we do it right. So it's been a good experience for us. Like any other implementation, you make sure you massage it and if you feel like you're getting too fast you slow it down a little bit. And we're just doing in a very disciplined way and I think that's where we are. So it'll be implemented through the course of the balance of year. And we keep adding stores, so we'll be doing this for a long time.

Okay. Great. And, Henry, in your opening remarks, you highlighted that Uni-Select had joined the Nexus Global Buying Group. I'm just wondering if you have any – if you have explored any further opportunities to maybe leverage that for the Canadian purchasing.

Well, that's exactly what we've done. So, Parts Alliance is been a founding member of that organization and maybe Peter can give an overview of the scale of that business. But clearly we're joining – in Canada we're joining the Nexus Buying Group to help us get the product line synergies and benefits on the procurement side. And that also helps us both in terms of the cost synergies, but it helps us with product lines. So, as we think about getting into more European vehicles, this is a great platform for us to help us with the product side as well. So, access to products we didn't formally have and then the other side of it, of course, is the product cost synergies. So maybe, Peter, overview of Nexus and Europe?

Yeah. I mean, just that we already enjoy the benefits of being part of Nexus. As Henry said, we're a founding member and have a shareholding in that business. And that gives us insight to about – or the benefit of about €14.5 billion of purchases across Europe. So, we immediately sort of accrete those benefits into Canada. So – and the other thing is that Nexus is widely represented, 123 members in, I think, 118 countries around the world. So when suppliers – major [ph] OES (41:24) suppliers look at Nexus, they see it as a growth vehicle to give them access into developing parts of the world as well. And that was one of the appealing things why we joined Nexus.

Okay. Thanks for your comments.

Great. Thanks, Jonathan.

Your next question comes from Michael Glen with Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hi. This is actually Jake Turcotte on for Michael Glen. Thanks for taking my questions. So, first of all, I was just wondering if you have any updated information on your market share in Canada.

Yeah. You know what? Market share is always one of those ones that's really tough to hide. It's not sort of a single-governing body that distributes specific detailed and highly accurate market share data. I think at the end of the day, we still call it 19%. We continue to absorb share from other independent jobbers. As we buy those independent jobbers in the marketplace, our share will continue to increase. I think if you look at the backdrop, you'll see our share continue to grow. And I'm sure you know our other major competitor that – they're good, solid competitor. I don't think they're losing share. I think the share gain for us comes from the smaller members across the country. Brent, Gary, would you guys agree?

I think the organic growth we've shown in the second quarter and third quarter, I think, will exemplify that we are gaining some market share in the industry, because I don't believe the industry has grown as big as we've shown our share growth. So we have to be taking some share from somebody along as we go in.

Yeah. I wish I could throw a lot of science on it. But, at the end of the day, we get it from the manufacturers in terms of their sales growth numbers. We get it from our relationships with other competitors. And, quite frankly, there's only other one competitor we have in Canada that is public and they don't disclose a whole bunch of information. So, it's a little bit hard to triangulate but that's as scientific as we can get.

No. That's helpful. Thank you. And, again, it might be a similar answer, but do you have any sort of ballpark number for the U.S. market share?

In the U.S., we have a better – we have an association in the U.S. that gives us better information. Maybe, Steve, you could talk about that?

Yeah. Currently, we believe we're in the low 30% area and that's excluding the Industrial and the Industrial initiative. As Henry said, it's a little bit less complicated to figure that out. But, again, we're really the only publicly-traded company and so we're going off of a lot of information from suppliers and information that we gather. But, as Gary said, we still believe that we are gaining market share in the industry. And it's really coming from the same thing, a lot of the sales initiatives that we have out there and it's coming from the smaller players in the markets.

All right. Thank you very much. Next, I was just curious. Do you guys have any thoughts regarding sort of a normalized long-term margin for FinishMaster?

I don't think we have a specific number in mind and we're not going to sort of provide guidance on it. I think at the end of the day -

What we stated at the beginning of the year was that we expected margins of FinishMaster to be between 11% and 12% for the calendar year 2017. And we don't provide guidance other than that. That was our expectation and that's pretty much what the business has been performing at since the beginning of 2017.

Yeah. Again, I think, what we're talking about also is the gross margin and that's something that we don't really have a good feel for you. And that's what Steve was talking about earlier is on the gross margin front it will depend on how aggressive the MSOs get and that will impact our gross margin. But equally so, as Eric said, we'll be working on our cost base and making sure our EBITDA margin comes in the range we discussed.

All right. Thank you. And just one last quick question. So, I know you guys talked about the strong Canadian performance already. You talked about the sales initiatives on the strong economy. Is there really anything else to look at there, maybe in particular if you won any new large national accounts in Canada?

We continue to be very aggressive around the national account specifically. We will have one that we will announce in Q4 but we're not prepared yet to announce it, but we do have one that's in the pipeline.

All right. Thanks a lot for your time, guys. I appreciate it.

Pleasure. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Elizabeth Johnston with Laurentian Bank Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Elizabeth. Good morning.

Just going back briefly to the product line changeover. I know you already quantified the headwind as 6% in this quarter. I'm thinking back to the previous call we had where your expectation had been for 4.6% headwind. Can you give me a sense of what changed between then and now?

Sure.

And how confident you are in your expectation for the negative 1.2% in Q4?

Yeah, absolutely. There are two elements that change the number from the guidance. One is the cut-off dates on some of those accounts and that's really a mathematical element where we thought at the time that the impact would be about 2% in Q4 and about [ph] 4 point an important math (46:56) in Q3. The reality is there's a 1% that move from Q4 to Q3, so that's a partial explanation. The other explanation, quite frankly, is that the customers that we had converted year-over-year, frankly, the organic growth from those customers was negative. And it's not because we lost those customers. It's purely the core business underlying for that. So, that was the softer-than-expected.

Okay. Great. And just turning over to Industrial Coatings, in your prepared remarks you mentioned some initiatives and can you give us an update maybe with more specifics on some of these initiatives and where you're at in developing that part of the business?

Hey, Elizabeth. This is Steve. The Industrial has been for us something that we have been very methodical and thoughtful about rolling out in the Southern markets that we have planned. And we are sticking to that plan to make sure that we build a great foundation. So, as we get out there with the sales initiatives in these markets that we have everything in place to be able to service this customer base. I can't say that we've seen – in the early markets, we've seen some early success with some national accounts that we have picked up. So, it's going according to plan. It is slow. It will be slow until we get everything in place that we need. And I'd tell you by the end of the year those things should be accomplished and we should see some good growth in 2018.

And so those seven markets are you in place in all seven or what -?

We will be in place in all seven completely by the end of November.

Okay. And at this point, since it's small and early, as you mentioned, should we expect that in terms of organic growth that we're seeing now any growth from this segment is not materially contributing to it?

I guess I'm not understanding what you're asking.

So, in terms of organic growth for FinishMaster, is growth within the Industrial Coatings – I know it's small but is any of that contributing to the organic growth? Are you seeing the strong growth, even though it's probably a small base?

Yes. Sorry about that. Yeah. Right now, no, it's not significant enough. It will be a larger part of organic growth in 2018 now.

Okay. Okay. Great. And, on the tax rate, I know you called out the reasons for the Q3. But as we look forward to 2018, what kind of blended tax rate should we expect for the business?

Yeah. It should be tax rate in the range of about 30%, 31% and we'll provide further indication, Elizabeth, on the next call. It's certainly something that we're looking at actively in budget, season and all that stuff. But I think, for now, the view is similar sort of 30%, 31% tax rate on a combined basis.

Okay. Thanks. And, just finally for me, going back to FinishMaster and the organic growth and we talked about the hurricane impact already. But as we look forward to Q4, I know you've answered this somewhat already, but if you could just reiterate your expectation for hurricane-related headwinds going forward, if there are any and what we should expect there?

Yeah. We really don't see any additional headwinds there. Like we said, there are some shops that will not reopen. There are some shops that are slower than expected in Texas where those cars went away and aren't being repaired. But on the flip side, some of the damage in Florida was more wind related, so that's repairable. So, there should be an offset there. So, I can't say that there will be a significant amount of headwind from that. But there'll be puts and takes there.

Okay. And are there any stores as you mentioned that are permanently closed at this point with no plans for reopening?

None of the FinishMaster locations received significant damage, a little bit here and there, but we were very fortunate.

And they're all up and running.

And they're all up and running some sooner than later but they are all back in operation.

Okay. Great. Those are all my questions. Thank you.

Thank you, Elizabeth.

Thanks Elizabeth.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Benoit Poirier with Desjardins Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Yeah. If we come back on Parts Alliance, would it be possible to provide some color about the organic growth rate at Parts Alliance in the quarter?

Yes. As I was mentioning in my remarks, Benoit, comparatively speaking, right, because obviously it's not our organic growth at the Uni-Select level. The Parts Alliance organic growth on a standalone basis was about 3.5% for the quarter.

Okay. Perfect.

Remember, we only owned the business for seven weeks of the quarter, so it's hard to [ph] explain (52:11) the exact seven weeks.

Okay. That's perfect. And I was wondering also if you provide some comments around the acquisition of Alliance Automotive by GPC. Whether it will change the competitive landscape in the UK and how does it compete against Parts Alliance?

I think, first of all, GPC is a great company. We have a lot of respect for them. We compete with them every single day in Canada and have done for decades. So it's not like we don't know the organization, so we have a lot of respect for them. I think one thing we do like is that we're introduced to a disciplined competitor into the European market. So in terms of their business itself, they have significantly less number of company-owned stores across the network. And I would say they're not entrenched in the national accounts.

National accounts typically are shared between ourselves and the larger player in England which is Euro Car Parts, ECP. So, those are the – the national accounts go between those two folks. And I think the Alliance Group in the UK has a decent network. Again, we respect the GPC coming in. So, we're happy to compete with a disciplined competitor in the market. I don't know. What would you say, Peter, any other thoughts?

No, but we've lived with them for a long time. As you say, we respect them, a disciplined competitor. Yeah. So, I don't think much will change. We focus on our own business and not competitor's strength. As Henry said, we have a high store count. So, 171 owned stores gives us national coverage. That's a compelling argument for any national account. So, we are somewhat unique in there. And also our systems as well, systems and technology is class-leading as well. So, that's how we outcompete our competitors whoever they are. But we've lived with those people for forever. So, nothing new there.

No. And I think you'll get a lot more insight into the UK business at the Investor Day we have coming up at the end of the month. And we're very excited to spend time with all of you and really share with you The Parts Alliance business, share with you the competitive landscape as we see it and our strategy moving forward. And I think there's lots of good things will continue to help differentiate us versus our competitors over time.

Okay. Perfect. And last one for me, if we look at FinishMaster, obviously, 7% impact from the product line changeover and also the acquisition. But if you extract the hurricane you would still be a minus 1.1%. So, I was just wondering what type of expectation of organic growth we should expect going forward, even if we exclude the 1.2% impact in Q4. So should we expect 2018 to be in a positive territory or organic growth to be kind of still close to unchanged? Thanks.

Well, let me give you my answer. So, Steve, I want you in positive territory.

We will be in positive territory in 2018. And I can tell you this. We've showed a steady improvement quarter-after-quarter. And, as I said, if October is any indicator of what's going on, we should see improvement in the fourth quarter also.

This is a block-and-tackle business. This is not fancy. So, Steve has got a host of organic growth initiatives, as I've said earlier, for MSOs but specifically for all those traditional accounts. And that's something that we are doubling down on in terms of – we're not acquiring – as you can see, we're not acquiring as many companies externally. We've looked to do some greenfields where it makes sense but we're doubling down in our organic growth sales initiatives. And I think that's where we're going to spend a lot of time and effort in 2018.

And, clearly, our expectation is to sort of reverse the trend. The trend has started to move more positive for us. The industry backdrop, as you can look at all of our manufacturers that are public, you can see that it's not been an amazing year in the PBE space, if you look at the public manufacturers. So, we're not experiencing something unique. We still believe our market share is continuing to grow but we needed to grow at a faster rate. So, that's what we're doubling down on, coupled with our 20/20 initiatives to continue to build out the FM business in the U.S.

Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Thank you.

Thanks, Benoit.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Great. Thank you very much, Ruth. So, I want to thank all of you. These are great questions. As always, we're wide open to helping share with you and be as transparent as possible in our business. But the one thing you have to know is that we're, as a team, highly dedicated to moving this business forward on a very much balanced approach, making sure we drive sales growth, profitable sales growth, but do so on a disciplined manner and make sure we're doing the balance in terms of managing our cost base.

And I think you heard today about our 20/20 initiatives. Again, reiterating, we just didn't wake up and do it this quarter. We've had this underway since Q2. And we're going to accelerate that focus over the coming days, weeks and months through 2020. So, we've got targets in place. We're making sure that we have this balanced approach where we manage our cost base at the same time as we actively grow sales, both organic and otherwise.

The other thing I would finally add is I'd like to welcome all of you that are joining us in the end of the month in the UK. This is a great opportunity for you to see the UK Parts Alliance business and we're very pleased to present that to you. And we look forward sharing with that at the end of the month. So, thanks, everyone. We appreciate your time today and we'll speak soon.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.