Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Manager, Investor Relations & Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Evecutive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and CEO, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
William Alexander — President and COO, Automotive USA, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Elaine Lae — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Vincent Perri — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by. Your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2012 Fourth Quarter and Year End Results Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Hi, everyone, and welcome to the 2012 fourth quarter and fiscal year review of Uni-Sélect. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President Corporate Services and CFO. Also attending the conference are Gary O'Connor, President and COO Automotive Canada; Willi Alexander, President and COO, Automotive USA; and Steve Arndt President and COO FinishMaster.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Securities Laws. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. [indiscernible] (1:08) familiar with the nature of our disclaimer, please visit our most recent annual report available on SEDAR.

Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information followed by Richard Roy who will discuss operational highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will open the lines for your questions.

Thank you, Karine, and good afternoon. The sales for the fourth quarter were $12 million lower than the fourth quarter last year at $424 million or 2.8% lower. So the decrease in revenue is mainly due to challenging economy and weather conditions which resulted in a decline of organic nature particularly in the Northeast region.

This was partially offset by the impact of the acquisition of the Florida assets, and it was very early in the fourth quarter last year, so it account for one month. And also we had a favorable variation in the value of the Canadian dollars relative to the U.S. dollars, and also we had one additional billing day both in Canada and U.S.

The adjusted EBITDA of $13 million is $5.5 million lower than the same quarter last year. This decrease is mainly due to the lower sales activity which directly impact the margin. Additional IT cost related to the ERP implementation, but those costs were partially offset by savings derived from the optimization plan launched at the end of the second quarter, and better buying conditions and proactive management on selling prices.

The net earnings stood at $4.7 million, or $0.22 per share. Once adjusted for non-recurring items, such as restructuring cost, ERP, network optimization expenses and acquisition related cost, adjusted earnings were $5.9 million or $0.27 per share as compared to $0.47 last year.

Now with respect to the yearend December 31, the sales for the 12 months period were $1.821 billion or 2.3% higher than last year. The increase in revenue versus last year was mainly due to the additional sales arising from the acquisition of the Florida asset combined with one more billing day in the U.S. which has been partially offset by an organic decline of 2.2% also arising from the difficult economic context, especially in the second half of 2012. The organic sales declined by 1.9% in U.S. and 2.9% in Canada. Adjusted EBITDA stood at $98 million for the 12 months ending December 31, 2012. Adjusted EBITDA margins at 5.4% represents a decrease as compared to last year at 5.9%.

This decrease is mainly due to the same reasons those explained for the quarter. Adverse economic conditions having prevailed only since the second quarter, their financial impact was less significant for the year, partially offset by positive contribution on the EBITDA generated by the latest acquisitions.

Net earnings for the year stood at $30 million or $1.39 per share. Once again once adjusted for non-recurring items, adjusted earnings were $46.5 million or $2.15 per share compared to last year $57.8 million or $2.65 (sic) [$2.67] per share.

The total net debt was reduced by $53 million since the end of the first quarter. Through amongst other things, a $55 million reduction in working capital. Unfortunately, we did not reach the debt reduction level we intend to at the end of the first quarter, that's what we mentioned at the end of the first quarter, and it's mainly due to the slowdown in sales prevailing since April and the investment made during the year to acquire stores.

On the other hand, the inventory has been reduced by $33 million since the beginning of the year, and more inventory reduction are planned in the first half of 2013, which will continue to reduce our debt level. In the fourth quarter, we assessed the impact of the change in inventory accounting methods following the introduction of the ERP software. The current inventory valuation is based on the weighted average cost method.

The change was applied retroactively for the year 2011 as the inventory has been evaluated using the FIFO method under the corporation par system. This retroactive application decreased the value of the inventory by $8.6 million as of January 1, 2011 or December 31, 2010. Also at the beginning of January 2013, we amended the terms of the existing credit facility and extended maturity by one year to January 2017, which used to be 2016.

The term loans was converted into an operating loan under the revolving loan portion of the credit facility. Interest rates were reduced under the amendment terms of the credit facility, which reflect current market conditions.

So in a nut shell, this conclude the financial review of the fourth quarter and fiscal year results. Richard?

Thank you, Denis, 2012 was a challenging year, and the last quarter was certainly no less challenging. We have experimented service issues due to stability problems with our new system, in addition to having incurred double IT cost with the two systems operating in parallel during the fourth quarter of the year. The stability problems have been resolved during the first quarter of 2013, but unfortunately we can expect some lingering effects during the first half of 2013.

In addition, consumer spending is down in Canada as evidenced by the decrease in retail spending during the last holiday season. Activity in the service base was low. This led to an organic sales decrease of 4.7% in Canada. The silver lining is we want, is that we have launched several product initiatives during the last portion of the year that should bring you business in 2013.

Furthermore, the inventories of our customers were improved which will also bring positive development even though it created a drain on sales and productivity during the fourth quarters of 2012.

The performance in the United States was also greatly affected by the service difficulties experienced due to the implementation of our new system during the fourth quarter, organic sales were negative 6.3% during the quarter. In addition, the miles driven in December were the lowest number driven in December since 2012, and this was even more to in the Northeast where we have the largest concentration of our business.

Some of this decrease in miles driven is weather-related that several Northeast states were severely affected by storms and several of our stores were closed for a few days. Some of the decrease is also linked to sudden sluggish activity in service base, which is a factor of the general economic climate, as well as a factor of the calendar Christmas having been on a Tuesday this year as opposed to Sunday the previous year and unusual large number of shops were closed on Monday even though we were open for business.

As mentioned for Canada, we have launched in the U.S. market several new product initiatives during the last quarter that should bring positive developments.

The administrative reorganization done last summer is bringing positive sales activities that we believe will improve our top line in 2013. This positive sales development showed flow to the bottom line as we have successfully completed several of the cost reduction initiatives announced during the fall. We have closed seven stores and one warehouse during the quarter and that's 24 stores and one warehouse during the year. We have moved our national distribution center to a more central location. We are finalizing the relocation of two of our warehouses into a new more efficient location and we are planning the rightsizing of four more warehouses in the coming months.

In addition, approximately 200 support positions were eliminated and variable cost in the warehouses and stores has been adjusted downwards. We have significantly reduced our working capital in our indebtedness even though I have to admit that we sell short of our expectations, again, due to the sluggish business. We're confident to achieve our assets reduction objective even though the realization period has to be extended to 2013.

As we conclude the deployment of our new systems during the first half of 2013, we'll be in a much better position to capitalize on sales and operational improvements. In Canada, early Q1 indications are better given the very cold weather experienced across the country in January, but please keep in mind that we're going against the very good first quarter in 2012.

In the U.S., the activity remains slower, persistent unemployment coupled with an increase of 2% in social security taxes for workers, and that became effective January 1, will continue to [indiscernible] (11:59) spending. And I would add that we could expect some lingering effects of the service difficulties that we did experience late last year and early this year that are now fortunately behind us.

So, our focus remain to increase sales with both products and recruitment initiatives, reduced cost through the ongoing cost reduction program initiated in 2012, reduce working capital and indebtedness and finalize the deployment of our new systems, during the first half of 2013.

In conclusion, I'd like to announce that the Board of Directors declares the dividend of CAD 0.13 per share, payable on April 19, 2013 to common shareholders of record on March 31, 2013.

This complete our 2012 fourth quarter and fiscal year review. We are now ready for your questions. Please feel free to ask your questions either in French or in English, and we'll answer in the same language. Thank you very much.

Operator, if you want to open the line for questions, please.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, Dennis. Good afternoon, Richard.

Good afternoon, Benoit.

Just first question, if we go on the organic growth, obviously we know a little bit more the story in the U.S., but when we look at the number in Canada, I understand also that next year you'll be facing a tough comparison with the first quarter. Could you please provide more color about the dynamics in Canada and what we should look forward in 2013?

Well basically, when you look at what happened in the last quarter in 2012, I mentioned that we had some service difficulties and that certainly did not help elements. And I also mentioned that we have assisted a lot of our customers in reducing their inventories, meaning that we took some fairly large returns at that moment.

This being said, without going into too many details, given that we're not looking at guidance, we do feel that we're still very confident that 2013 will be more of what we had earlier in 2012 than in the last quarter there. And actually with some product initiatives in some specific categories, where we believe that we can make headway, we had initiatives there and we do believe that it will be more positive in 2013 overall.

Okay. And just on the drop shipment, could you maybe provide the number in the quarter, in the U.S. it must be close to 50%, but in Canada, sorry, but I'm wondering the drop shipments in percentage in the U.S. how did it grow?

I would tell you, I don't have the figures, in Canada, you're right, it's very close to 50% as it has been for a long, long time, so there's no big change there. For the U.S., I don't have the figure on the tip of my – the answer on the tip of my finger, but I believe it would be around 17% of the total sales for the last quarter. Willi, am I close to the right answer on this one?

Yes. That is correct.

Okay. Perfect. Maybe a last question and after that I'll get back into queue. When we look at your financial position, you just met your covenant but funded debt to EBITDA was 3.43. So, do you have any flexibility going in Q1; given it will be still a tough comparison?

Denis you want to answer that one, in terms of the covenant?

Yeah. Just for information, that I want to correct you, but we have a specific calculation to meet for the banks and the real calculator, the real rate is 3.24, Okay? And we do have for year-end 3.5 as a covenant. And for your information for the first quarter, like every year, we do have a covenant at 3.75 because you all know that we need to increase our inventory for the busy season of the second quarter. So that's the reason why our covenant are made this way and we are allowed to go to 3.75. And as we speak, we do not have any reason to believe that we won't meet of any those covenant.

And by the way, even though we'll be going forward and through the end of March, and you'll see, so far we are lowering our borrowings in the first quarter of this year as we are lowering inventories, same time, there will be some cyclical reversal or seasonal reversal, I should say, of inventory because for us March is one of the high point of the year.

You're perfectly right, Richard, because one of the reason why we missed the reduction of the debt is mainly to the fact that we shipped, we returned some goods to vendors late in December instead of late in November. So, by doing so, we couldn't use that credit for – against our payment of December. So, we have to pay our suppliers in December, and now we are using those credit in January. So that's the reason why the debt was lower is – already lower as compared to last year – year-end, I'm sorry.

And then, any specific numbers you're looking out for 2013 in terms of inventory and debt reduction?

Inventory, our target is to reduce by $25 million – for the year $25 million, and for the debt anything between $40 million to $50 million.

Okay. Thanks for the time.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you Benoit.

Thank you. The following question is from Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Thank you. I'm just wondering if you could give us a breakdown of how much the ERP disruption versus the sales decline in terms of lower margins this quarter?

Elaine, that's a very good question. We know that there has been impact, but it's very difficult to quantify because nobody is telling us well, that order I am not placing, because of the service difficulties. But there is no doubt that it has played a role at two levels, certainly reduction in the top line and the second element is additional normal operating costs that were higher, because we had to put more hands on deck to serve our customers. But the exact quantification of that is extremely difficult, so I don't want to venture with a figure that I cannot substantiate.

And just, given ERP's been ongoing, if you could dive deeper into what were the issues in terms of the service disruption and how long were you offering those systems in parallel?

Basically, we still have systems working in parallel, because not all of our warehouses has been converted. But basically what happened is once we – after we converted additional warehouses for reasons that we now understand because we've corrected that. We had a very significant system and stability, meaning that we have interruptions and then for other periods we have significant slowness, that's really what happened.

That has been the result in the first quarter of this year, but obviously the cost has been – additional cost has been incurred, and we can see that we will have some lingering effects like once you've deteriorated your service for a few weeks, you always – it always takes a little bit of time to regain everybody's confidence. So, we do expect that there will be some lingering effect during the first half of 2013.

Okay. And just in terms of the finished state for the ERP, I know you guys were aiming for April 2013, is that still on track?

No, in light of that, we have postponed the April 1, we wanted to make sure that we were not compounding the problem, and we're looking at now at the first half of 2013, but that remains to be confirmed, it is the most likely, but the prudent and careful thing to do for us was to resolve all of those stability and speed issues before piling on additional volume on top of that.

And on – and just if you could remind us the investments that have been made in this system and the expected benefit?

Well, basically, the total cost that we – and we have announced since last year, basically has not changed. Fact of that, we will take a couple of months more probably to stabilize everything, it will be a couple of $100,000 per month additional expenses, but in the great skim of things, that's not the most significant figure. The overall investment and that would capitalize, and also that was expensed in terms of deployment cost and element that would not be capitalized was a total of $90 million.

The capitalization is in the range of $50 million – $70 million, I'm sorry, $70 million. And the additional benefit that we have announced at the time that we have decided to go forward with this at the moment where we have lesser volume, were about $50 million annually.

By 2015.

And obviously, once you deploy everything in 2013, the benefits start accruing in 2013, but you reach really the run rate and the full benefits in 2015.

Okay. And I guess where about – where about in CapEx would that come out of, what do you think for CapEx for 2013?

Most of the – if you're referring to the ERP implementation, most of the CapEx is behind us. There will be probably a couple of million dollars, that's all. Overall for the year, we're looking at capital expenditures of about $35 million for the year.

And just I noticed then, and you mentioned the earnings rate accounting method changed. What was the impact in Q4 2011 and Q4 2012 on the margin front, inventory it obviously went down $6 million?

Everything was restated retroactively. So, when you compare 2011 into 2012, I mean there is no impact because we restate the numbers. As you look carefully to the 2011 numbers, you're going to see that we changed the earnings of 2011 to be in line with 2012 and we restate the opening of retail earning by $5.3 million and the inventory by $8.6 million.

Okay.

So the impact on the balance sheet is not major and there was no impact on the P&L, when you compare it in both the years.

Okay. And just to – so because I did notice Q4 2011 had some adjustments so there was – it wasn't accruals or anything like that it was just all the inventory method change?

Exactly.

Okay, great. And I guess just last question, on the volume trends that you're seeing right now in the U.S. and Canada, have you seen any change I think you mentioned some at Q4 that you were seeing a bit of an improvement in Canada?

Well, as mentioned it in Q1, we've seen improvement in Q1 2013 and as much as I hate to always talk about the weather, when it's – when it has a negative impact to explain that, I'll tell you that, we have very cold weather during the first month of 2013 across the country in Canada and that certainly has helped the revenues.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon, guys. My first question relates to negative organic growth in the United States, I wanted to get a sense of – if you were to exclude the Northeastern part of your business, can you – are you seeing positive organic growth in the other parts, like in the Southern states and what not, I just want to...

No, we're not really seeing organic growth in the other areas, what we're seeing though is that the rate is worst in the Northeast, and by the way, if you go Pennsylvania, East stood at 60% of our volume. So, if you exclude that, that's really where we got the heavier concentration.

But if you look at the – for example and I'm not saying that this is directly related, but if you look at the mileage in December, you will see that the Northeast was down 4.6% and the other regions, where we've got the motor balance of our business were down north of 3%, 3% in one region, 3.4% in the other regions. And you know, as I do, that the price of fuel and late in the year had a lot to do with that also. So that gives you a little bit of a proxy as to what could have happened, I will also tell you that the service difficulties that I have referred to earlier touched all the areas, all geographies of this company in December.

Okay. That's helpful. And I guess just moving on to that. I mean with respect to your adjusted EBITDA numbers, like EBITDA margins of 3.1% and I'm looking through your historicals, I mean it haven't been this low for like a decade. So, I mean, would you consider Q4 sort of like an anomaly or would you expect to see this levels of margins continue going forward?

Obviously, it has to be an anomaly we're certainly not planning on keeping it at that point. But one of the thing that you need to be very careful when you look at that is that for the decrease of some of our business, even though we are very successful in our cost reduction program. In the store base side of the business, when the volume goes down, there's a limited number of initiatives that you can do to reduce your cost, a lot of it is – it's fixed. And that has a very direct impact on the operating margin and that's really what happened.

If you overlay on top of that the additional cost that were incurred, because of not only the deployment but also the instability and slowness of the system afterwards, that's really – you've got a great share of the answer as to what's going on in Q4.

Okay. Great. I'll return back into queue for now. Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Vincent Perri. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Vincent.

I just wanted to get back on the margin side. I know you have like a long-term objective to improve margins, and I know you said that you don't like to obviously provide specifics in terms of the guidance on the EBITDA. But directionally, in the next one quarter or two quarters, given what we've seen in the last few quarters, what could we expect like year-over-year? Do you expect things to improve, or are you still seeing some pressure at least on a percentage basis?

I'll tell you again we're done giving guidance, because I won't. Remember that last year first quarter we had excellent results; we were up 16% on the bottom line. So what I would tell you is that my expectation is that we would see improvements basically in the second quarter and third quarter as opposed to the first one.

It's still too early to basically say what's going to happen in the first quarter. But at the end of the day, just by the sheer comparison of a very tough comparable last year, my own expectations is that we would see real headway in the second quarter and third quarter when it comes to the comparable margin to the previous year.

Now, I've mentioned in my notes that we're looking at a lot of sales initiatives, and obviously, that's the first element that you work on basically to improve sales, because that gives you the opportunity to leverage your expenses. We have done a lot of the cost reductions that we said we would do. I would tell you that 90% of what we expected to do at the end of December was done, [indiscernible] (29:56) And there is some other elements that we had explained would be done in early 2013, and we're still on track with that.

In addition to this, we are working on the pricing for sales out and we're working on sourcing initiatives and on some different product initiatives to bolster the gross margin. So these in a nutshell are the various initiatives that we have in place right now to basically work or have a positive impact on the operating margin going forward.

Okay. So with that being said, we still expect some pressure here in the first half. I know we do have some room with the covenants in Q1 specifically, but how comfortable are you guys with your debt levels here, and considering that the EBITDA is still under pressure?

If you're asking me if I'm comfortable to meet the covenant, the answer is yes, I'm comfortable. And as we've mentioned earlier, the debt, as we speak right now, and the inventory levels, as we speak like right now, at this moment, are lower than they were at the end of the year.

Okay. And also, I want to follow-up, when we announced the initiatives in the fall, there was some recession cost that you expected to incur in the back half of 2013. Could you remind us, if there was any – if there is any other initiative that you guys are going to be implementing in the coming quarters, in terms of rightsizing and cutting perhaps some stocks?

Well, basically, what we are looking at in the coming quarters and also actually, in the first quarter of 2013, is we will definitely continue on the plan that we announced last year and the costs that we explained or that we announced at that moment are the costs that we would still expect to incur in 2013 on that.

Okay.

As far as the additional initiatives to improve the bottom line, [indiscernible] (32:20) you need to understand that, that becoming more efficient in reducing the cost of doing business is an ongoing process, as opposed to a special item now. I mean the first element was of much more magnitude. So, that's why we needed this special project, but we are going to continue to improve our efficiencies, and reduce our cost on an ongoing basis.

So, you can expect to have some cost reductions that will happen, some network rationalization. I've mentioned in my opening remarks that we have some additional warehouses, that we are planning four of them, that we're planning to rightsize, these were parts of what we had announced last call. We will be finalizing relocation of two warehouses into a more efficient location, that was also part of what we had announced last call.

So, that's really, what's we're doing. In terms of reduction in personnel, basically in the back office, what we have to do is basically done. Obviously, we are looking at reducing our variable labor costs in the warehouses further. And we – and even more so, once we have resolved the – all of the service difficulties that we have, which really created some additional costs.

Okay. And my final question, if you could just comment perhaps on the performance of the FinishMaster?

Basically the performance of FinishMaster is good. They're making nice progress and good margin, where we – as you know, we have a very dominant or important part of that market, and FinishMaster continues to do very well.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Thank you. It's a couple of question regarding the top line here, particularly in the U.S. I mean, we're seeing organic decline here of 6.3% U.S. My question is just regarding specifically about market share. I mean, we saw some of the competitors as well were submitting. I just wanted to see what your take was on that. I mean, are you losing market share necessarily or is it really a thorough industry-wide slump right now?

Well, if you look at, I'm not going to comment on what my competitors are doing, and some of them have different circumstances and are not operating and necessarily attracting the same geographies or same type of customers or even products. So not being in their shoes is very difficult for me to answer that.

What I will tell you and unfortunately I will repeat those that what I've said earlier is that we have seen very sluggish business in the areas where we're present. And that has been compounded by the service difficulties that we've had. So, between the two that pretty much explains where we are, I wish I might had some accurate market information to the last week, unfortunately or to the last month or even the last quarters, but that is not available to me, so I can't speculate on that.

Thank Okay. That's it from me.

Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Just to come back on the ERP, could you let us know how many waves – in my mind there was only one, the last one expected in March and it has been postponed on a little good like...

Yeah.

As you have mentioned?

You're right, Benoit, there is one last wave that was due April 1 actually or at March 31, if you want – and that's the one that we have postponed. So you're quite right.

Okay. And how many corporate store did it involve?

There wasn't – about five warehouses and if I'm not mistaken about 85 stores or is it more than that, Willi can you help me please?

It's 120 stores.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay. Very good color. And just in terms of competitive dynamics when we look at the Northeast, obviously we saw the Sandy hurricane, but when you're looking at your competitors, it seems that they are maybe becoming a little bit more aggressive with opening new stores, making some acquisitions. So, are you noticing something more difficult from a pricing standpoint or is that the dynamics changing a bit in the Northeast region?

I will tell you that the dynamics have been extremely competitive for the last couple of years and it's not getting less competitive. I don't believe that we're seeing that much more, and Willi would you have additional color that you'd like to give on this one.

No. you're exactly right. As the market environment has been very intense and we don't see that letting up.

Okay. Perfect. And maybe [indiscernible] (37:58), as we know there's might be some M&A opportunity given that the challenging environment the industry experienced in the last few months. Does it represent an opportunity for you in terms of grabbing a few location, a few stores that could be very complementary to your current foothold?

Yes. You're right. We have made some small acquisitions here and there, a store here, a store there, to basically compliment our network and improve density in some market and so on so forth. And we will continue to look at what is available out there, but I will tell you that only the transactions that are really accretive very quickly are going to be looked at as we continuing to reduce the leverage of the organization and the debt level general it is really very, very important for us right now.

Okay. And last question if I may, what about the expectation you gave, very good color about the inventory reduction, debt reduction but what should we imply in terms of free cash flow generation for 2013?

I would say that if we mentioned that we will reduce the debt by $40 million to $50 million that's become the free – net free cash flow, net of CapEx, net of dividends.

Okay, perfect.

Because we did not change our dividend practice. We declared the same dividend in the last year at $0.30 per quarter.

$0.13.

$0.13 per quarter.

Okay, got it. Thank you very much again.

You're welcome, Benoit.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Hi, I just wanted to follow up, you've talked a lot about the initiatives to drive margins and just on a higher level, what would you say your this strategy is on the geographic presence, the product in terms of your product mix and the profitability there? And if you could just tell us maybe some of the product initiatives that you guys have launched on?

What is I'd rather not comment on that in a public forum, because I would enforce my competition to listen to my strategies.

Okay, that's fair. And I guess one more on a more technical question too, I'm just trying to understand perhaps maybe which is, what some other service disruptions were on the ERP side given both systems were working in parallel, was it just an overall system?

Elaine, I'm afraid you're mistaken when we're talking about in parallel, a system is serving one warehouse and the other system is serving warehouses that have not been converted. So we are incurring twice the cost, but one warehouse it's serves only by one system and when that new system goes down for whatever reason, the other one is not there to pick it back up. It's just because we are still in the transition of going from one system to the other one. So most of our – if not all of our warehouses, except five, are working on our new system and the other five warehouses are operating on the old system. So when the new system is down you've got to make it work, period.

Okay. That's good. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting back over to Mr. Roy.

Well, I just want to thank you very much for your interest and your presence here with us this afternoon. I want to thank my colleagues, Gary O'Connor, Willi Alexander and also Steve Arndt, who is our new President and Chief Operating Officer of FinishMaster, he has been in this position for the last few months. And basically, he is a very experienced and long term employee in the industry and with FinishMaster. So I welcome with us in this call, Steve I know it's your first one. I will remind you that our focus continues to be sales with product initiatives and recruitment initiatives, reduction of costs and the reduction in working capital and indebtedness and finalization of our deployment of the new system, that's really what we are working very very hard on right now.

With this, I thank you very much and I wish you all the best and we'll talk to you I guess on May 1, if I'm not mistaken. Take care. Bye-bye.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your telephone lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.