Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Manager-Investor Relations & Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Chief Financial Officer & EVP-Corporate Services, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President and Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Brent Windom — President and Chief Operating Officer, Automotive USA
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets
Sara O'Brien — Director, Research, RBC Capital Markets
Michael Glen — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please standby. Your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the 2014 First Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager and Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. Welcome to Uni-Sélect's 2014 first quarter financial results conference call. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO. Also joining me this afternoon are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster; Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; and Brent Windom, President and COO, Automotive USA.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Securities Legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our most recent annual report available on SEDAR.

I will now turn the call over to Richard Roy, who will discuss key operational highlights for the quarter. He will be followed by Denis Mathieu, who will discuss our financial results. After their presentations, we will open the call to questions. Richard?

Thank you very much, Karine. Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining us. Before we discuss our first quarter results, let me thank the shareholders and business partners who attended our 2013 annual and special meeting of shareholders earlier today. We are fortunate to count on your continued [ph] collaboration (01:49) and support. This [ph] event concluded (01:51) the pivotal year for Uni-Sélect, one that we will remember as a turning point in our path towards long-term sustainable growth.

Let's now talk about the first quarter results we announced today, which follow in the footsteps of the solid growth trend that we have been experiencing since the implementation of our Action Plan last summer. In spite of a slight decrease in overall sales, which was expected, I'm delighted to report strong EBITDA and earnings growth once again this year. The strong performance is namely the results of our team's focus on executing our operational strategies efficiently.

As part of our Action Plan priorities in the first quarter, we integrated a new regional distribution center in the Washington D.C. area. We closed two warehouses and one store. We also continued our head count and inventory reductions as well as our initiatives to improve our store profitability. Our plan continues to generate stronger results than what our initial projections called for.

In Q1 alone, we were able to record $5.6 million in recurring cost savings. Since we began the implementation of the Action Plan last year, we delivered a total of $18.6 million in cost reductions. But I'd like to point out though and because I know some have questions the figure of $5.6 million compared to the north of $8 million that we had in the last quarter, those figures are really net improvement, net of the impact of sales erosion. And with the closing of two warehouses in the Washington D.C. area, this year we have had more sales erosion. This is not unexpected. We had mentioned that before and that's why the $5.6 million is slightly lower than what we had in the last quarter, which we had said should not be multiplied by four because then obviously we would have been at a $35 million cliff.

I also want to point out that this is a smaller quarter, so there is lesser opportunity to leverage cost, given the seasonality. This being said, we strongly believe that we will be delivering the additional $15 million improvements in earnings that we had committed to in our plan over and above the $10 million that we had last year for an annual run rate of $25 million with the remainder coming in early 2015 as we had announced early last year when we had disclosed our plan.

So these cost reductions largely impacted our EBITDA margin, which grew by 22% to 5%. Again, last year in the second half of the year – last year for all of the year, we had 5.7% in EBITDA, but in the second half of the year, we had 6.1% EBITDA and that we considered to be our baseline.

Now because of seasonality with some quarters being smaller than other and the fact that there is some cost, we always know that from quarter to quarter, EBITDA will fluctuate, even though we are still committed on increasing the 6.1% of EBITDA that we delivered in the last half of 2013, and the fact that we have 5% and lower than the 6.1%, it certainly is not taking away from our basically expectation of improved EBITDA in 2014 compared to 2013.

While we continue to take advantage of every opportunity to lower costs, we also remain committed to deliver organic growth. In the first quarter even when largely unfavorable weather conditions prevailed in many U.S. regions, especially in the Northeast forcing temporary store and warehouse closures, our team succeeded in growing our top line organically.

In the first quarter, we completed three small-scale acquisitions that fit perfectly into our business. Two of these acquisitions were completed by FinishMaster. Because of their profile and geographic footprint, these additions to the FinishMaster family will allow us to expand our paint offering and strengthen our leadership within these markets.

Our most recent acquisition brought into our fold one warehouse and nine corporate stores involved in the wholesale distribution of automotive replacement part maintenance items and accessories in Virginia.

The integration this past January of our new distribution center in the Washington D.C. area makes this acquisition very profitable, as it will allow for the consolidation of our newly acquired warehouse with that of our new distribution center. Additional synergies opportunities will also be made possible by some of our recent network and systems investment.

As acquisition opportunities present themselves, we will rigorously assess them to make sure each transaction contributes rapidly to our results and meet our long-term objectives. We will do so while keeping our focus on deleveraging our balance sheet. We will also continue to focus on our Action Plan with the objectives to deliver additional profitability and efficiency gains.

Before I conclude, I'd like to thank the members of the Uni-Sélect team, who again demonstrated the extent of their skills in generating strong results, which translated into positive outcomes for our customers, suppliers and shareholders. Denis?

Thank you, Richard, and hello everyone. Sales for the quarter reached $413 million, a 2.1% decrease over the same quarter last year. This decrease is explained by a 2.7% decline in sales due to projected store closures as part of the Action Plan, a 2.1% headwind in currency as well as temporary closures caused by severe winter conditions in many U.S. regions that Richard referred to earlier.

Notwithstanding these negative factors, we recorded an organic – an overall organic sales growth of 1.7% in the quarter. Our American operations recorded a 1% organic growth, while our Canadian operations delivered a 3.8% growth in organic sales.

Earnings before income taxes improve by 74% from $4.9 million to $8.5 million in the year. As per last year, we have benefited from our tax structure, which provided a fixed $3 million tax credit per quarter reducing significantly our tax rate for the quarter. But once again, our annual tax rate should be forecasted at 20%.

Adjusted EBITDA grew by 20.4% in the quarter to reach close to $21 million, while our adjusted EBITDA margin recorded a 22% increase from 4.1% to 5%. Once again, as Richard mentioned earlier, we are still committed to improve our annual EBITDA margin north of 6.1% realized during the second half of 2013. These improvements were driven by the savings realized under the Action Plan, tighter control over expense and gross margin as well as by the organic growth. These favorable items were partially offset by higher utility costs resulting from the colder temperatures experienced across North America.

Now looking at our bottom line, adjusted earnings for the quarter stood at almost $10 million or $0.46 per share, a 39% increase over last year of $0.33 per share. Net earnings also grew sharply reaching $8 million or $0.39 per share, up from $6 million or $0.29 per share for the same period last year.

Although the impact of currency fluctuations have a very little impact on cash flow, recent Canadian dollar decline impacted sales, sorry...

Reduced earnings. Sales by $9 million.

I am sorry. The recent decline impacted sales by $9 million and reduced earnings per share by $0.01. We expect the negative impact of the weaker Canadian dollars to continue over the coming months when comparing our Canadian results in U.S. dollars year-over-year. Sorry about that.

In our first quarter of 2014, we generated $13.7 million in free cash flow compared to $6.3 million in the first quarter of 2013. Total net debt increased by $20 million to finance our three acquisitions. We reduced our inventory by $30 million in the quarter, mainly due to the inventory returned to venders, which temporarily lowered our accounts payable by the same amount. This will results in the net debt reductions during the coming quarter.

Our debt to EBITDA ratio for bank covenant purposes stands at 2.86 times compared to 3.62 times a year ago. We remain committed to further reducing that to reach a ratio under 2.5 times.

This concludes our financial review. Back to you, Richard.

Thank you very much, Denis. Let me once again reiterate how pleased I am with our first quarter results and our team's ability to deliver solid earnings growth in spite of some of the unfavorable weather conditions that we discussed.

The strong impact of the action plan and the enhancement brought by our new systems all contributed to our results together with our team ability to tackle challenges. We fully intend on remaining the partner of choice for independent wholesalers and installers, and we continue to optimize our operations and enhance our customer service and partner with our suppliers to achieve that goal. We will also remain focused on increasing our sales and profitability in the months to come.

Before we open up the line to your questions, I am pleased to report that the Board of Directors has approved a 15% dividend increase in line with our dividend payout ratio target of 20% to 25% of the adjusted earnings of the previous year. Accordingly, the board has declared a dividend of C$0.15 per share payable in Canadian dollars on July 22, 2014, to shareholders of record on June 30, 2014.

We are now ready to answer your questions. So Mary, please.

Thank you. We will now take the questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] We have a question from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Hey, good afternoon Denis and good afternoon Richard.

Thank you.

Just first question. If we look in terms of cost saving, you are ahead of the plan at $5.6 million out of $15 million expected this year. If I look at your adjusted EBITDA margin, it's up 94 basis points year-over-year. So I was just wondering if you could – if the level of improvement is sustainable going forward or what should we expect in terms of sustainability in the next three quarters given the sales erosion right now?

Basically – well, sales erosion is basically due to the closures that we had planned. So it's not a concern actually those were sales where profitability was not there. I will tell you that improvement in the EBITDA margin will continue throughout 2014. As I mentioned very briefly in my remarks, because of seasonality from quarter to quarter, it will always vary, but if you look at the second half of last year where you have a very strong quarter in the third quarter and a much weaker one in the fourth quarter because of the holiday period, the blend that you get is pretty representative of the annual earnings EBITDA margin, and we had 6.1%, up from 5.7% for all of 2013. So we do believe that 6.1% is our baseline and we are going to improve from there. Well, I've had the opportunity to answer that question from a few other people at some point and I indicated that we do not believe that we will reach 7% in 2014, but certainly this is a very achievable target for 2015.

Okay, very good color, Richard. And also just in terms of weather, I know I understand it was a very tough winter for you. Have you been able to quantify what would be the impact either on the same-store sales organic growth or maybe even on the margin side?

You mean for the first quarter what was the impact?

Yeah. For the first quarter?

I would tell you that sales volumes between all of the operations in the U.S., if I look at the days where we were closed between the parts and the paint and all of that, it's close to $5 million in revenues that we are about 1% on an annual basis or for the whole thing. So quite frankly, that's really what we saw. This being said, we do believe that with the harsh weather conditions, later during the year, that certainly will have an impact on the failure rates on parts and also obviously on collision repair shops that are pretty busy. So it's a bit of short-term pain for longer-term gain that hopefully will materialize in 2014.

Okay and what should we impact when we look at your organic growth rate for Q2? I understand that last year you had two main customers that were very cautious, so that's why the rate was negative. So I think, is it fair to assume that you'll be facing an easy compare? And I am just wondering given that we still have cold weather in Canada, whether the maintenance is postponed or whether April has been a very solid month because of the pushback from the tough winter?

There is no such thing as an easy compare in this business. I've quit saying anything like that, but I will tell you that we do expect to continue positive organic growth including in the second quarter. So I don't think that will have negative organic growth that we did last year. This being said, I don't really want to go any further than that in my forecast because as you know I'm not giving guidance, so.

Okay. Just one quick one. Drop shipments in the U.S. was 20% last quarter. Any update on the drop shipment percentage in the U.S., Richard?

It hasn't really increased in the first quarter.

Okay. And four, with respect to the three acquisitions you've made, so APS, MPS and also J.K. Distributors, could you maybe provide more details on the integration plan and also what we should expect in terms of accretion to the bottom line?

Okay. In terms of the integration, I think I will ask my friend, Steve Arndt, to talk about the two paint distributor integration.

When it comes to MPS in Chicago and Denver, we're on schedule for the integration of that. The Lakeland acquisition is fully integrated into our existing locations now. We feel very comfortable about where we are at with the remainder of the integration that we need to continue in Chicago and Denver. Brent?

Brent, do you want to talk about the acquisition in Virginia?

Certainly. I would just say that in previous years, our acquisitions took multiple years and sometimes much longer time period. Now with our new systems and the implementation of ERP, we are now actually able to integrate this in the next 60 days, we're well ahead of plan and everything points to be in very successful as far as integration.

Yeah. Most of the product change-over are done already.

Correct.

And systems will be totally switched over to SAP by the end of May.

Okay. And Richard, what we should expect going forward in terms of M&A? Is it about – can you sustain the same rates of about three tuck-in acquisitions a quarter, is it your goal?

You know as much as I do that acquisitions are an opportunistic game, and obviously this type of acquisition that we've done have not strained our resources, but it could be a little bit more, it could be a little bit less, it depends on the opportunities. What I will tell you though is that we want to make sure that there is a positive impact on earnings from day one, whatever acquisition we do and obviously we are very stringent in our acquisitions criterias. And this quarter, basically debt increased by the amount of those acquisitions. Other than that, it would have been stable, which really when you go into the busier season, that says a lot about the capacity that we have to generate cash and lower the debt. So we do expect that the debt level will continue to decrease during 2014 and that we will be in the second half of the year below 2.5 times EBITDA. So that's really where we're going.

Okay. Thanks for the time.

You're welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon. My first question just relates to the impact of weather. I know you touched on it a little bit, but I just want to get a sense of the cadence of sales, understanding that first two months of the year were probably tougher, but did you see a much stronger Q March results and then similar to what Benoit asked, like is it falling towards April?

What I will tell you is, it really varies by markets, what was strong and what was weak and which month and that month, okay. I will tell you that for example in Canada, where we did not have closures, because as I kid my U.S. friends, we know how to handle snow and sleet and everything. We didn't have any closures, but yet January was strong, February was weaker and March was strong and April continues good.

In the U.S., it's really we've had closures in all three months of the first quarter. We even have some closures as we speak right now. There has been some flooding in Florida, obviously not due to ice and cold, but we do have some closures right now as we speak. So it's been much more generalized. Keep in mind that with our footprint being very heavy in the Northeast and that's where a lot of those storms have hit, we might have been impacted more than others. Okay.

Okay. Okay, great. That's very helpful. And my second question just relates to the sales erosion to-date. I mean from what you guys have provided, it just appears that it's trending much lower than you have so far guided to. And my question just basically is, is there a possibility that your forecast maybe a little high and that we can actually see higher than expected sales?

Otto, I have difficulty when you say guided, because we haven't guided, but we have talked about positive organic growth and we do intend to continue to have positive organic growth. This being said, we did say when we published our Action Plan that we would be reducing revenues by about $70 million. And we also mention that even though we were behind that, which is a good thing in 2013, because of additional closures in 2014, we would be catching up on that. So the sales reduction that we have there basically were part of the plan and it's not over yet, because we're still going to close about five more warehouses in the second half of this year. So at one point, we will get to what we said we would, which is about $70 million.

The other element that has lowered the top figure, we're not taking that into consideration. We're excluding that from organic computation, but the fact that Canadian dollars has weakened about 10% since the beginning of the year against the U.S. and we are reporting in U.S. dollars and I will state again that all the earnings that we are talking about are in U.S. dollars and the stock is traded in Canadian dollars, just remind that to everybody. The fact is that our Canadian sales have been decreased significantly on account of translation. No impact on treasury, no impact on real cash flow, but just reporting Canadian sales, we've got a significant headwind that unfortunately as part of the figure. So other than that, as organic growth has been a little bit lower than what I expected personally in Q1, the answer is yes. I would tell you that without the weather we've had, probably would have been pretty much in line with what I was expecting.

Okay, but I think you answered my question in terms of your forecasted sales erosion of $70 million, you do expect for that to catch up later in the year, so that's helpful, okay. And my last question just, I want to get a better sense of I guess aside from the weather impact, aside from the integration costs, I was just wondering how Beck/Arnley and the FinishMaster operations are going overall? And I'll leave it at that.

They are doing very well.

Okay. Any other color in terms of which particular areas are strong or weaker or whatnot?

It is strong in all operations and no doubt about that. We're very happy with this. And even our U.S. parts operation is doing much better than it was. So the earnings increase has been coming from all corners of the organization.

Perfect. Okay, I will jump back in queue. Thank you very much.

Then pre-tax earnings and I understand that sometimes our quarterly tax rate is difficult to follow, but 74% increase in pre-tax earnings, I think, shows that we have been strong in all walks of the organization.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon gentlemen. [indiscernible]

(26:00) Tony.

Richard, could you give us a bit more detail with reference to the organic growth rate. In Canada, you had 3.8%. Are there certain regional differences that would explain this performance? And do you believe you're gaining market share both in the U.S. and in Canada?

I would tell you, in Canada, it's been pretty well distributed. Obviously, the west continues to do well, but the east even region-by-region has been doing quite correctly. I would tell you that in Canada, in most markets, we are certainly not losing market share, probably gaining a little bit. So does that answer your question, Tony?

Yes. It does. It does. And Richard, looking at the acquisitions, have you seen a change in multiples, are they becoming slightly more expensive this year compared to last year?

Well, the acquisitions, I am hesitant to answer that, the acquisitions that we have done during the first quarter were all very small tuck-ins. I am not sure that whatever multiple there are that representative, so we have paid very reasonable multiples. This being said, I will tell you that generally speaking right now in the paint distribution business, multiples are higher than in the parts distribution business.

Okay. And did we see any product inflation during the quarter or do you think that there is potential price inflation in the pipe?

In the first quarter, there was no price inflation. I would tell you that in coming quarters in the U.S., no price inflation on the horizon. In Canada, because of the exchange rate, we see a little bit of price inflation coming.

Okay. That's great. And my last question. Could you give us a bit more color on the benefits stemming from your ERP system maybe from a client perspective and...?

Yeah. When we installed the ERP, we were talking about $15 million in benefits annually. I would tell you that about a third of that stemming mainly from the back office streamlining has already taken place. And we're very confident that we'll do at least the balance and I guess that that may shed a little bit of light on the organic growth in Canada, but Gary was mentioning to me this morning that because our system makes it much easier, much more customer friendly for our customers to order from a warehouse different than their normal warehouse if you want, if the normal warehouse doesn't have the product, they can order it from one of our other Canadian warehouses. And that generated an additional volume of about $2.7 million during the first quarter of this year. So obviously there is benefits that are coming from that. And that is one of the other elements that is associated with the new systems that we have in place.

Okay. That's excellent. I've also noticed you're reporting earlier so...

Well, that also is a fact that, when you don't have to reconcile figures that are coming from different systems, to make sure that everything is correct, it certainly has cut down on our reporting cycles. You're right. And quite frankly from a management point of view, people in this room here are getting a lot more information on a much more timely basis, some of them being almost real time, so that helps.

That's excellent. Well, thank you very much.

You're welcome, Tony.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Hi Sara.

Can you comment, Richard, just on your expected gross margin, it's been pretty steady at 30%. With the drop ship in the US, do you expect it can continue around that level?

I'm sorry, you said my – I'm not sure I heard the question properly.

The gross margin, if we look at net of purchase – purchases net of inventory, it's trending around 30%. I just wonder if you believe that's sustainable or can you improve the gross margin?

I think it's sustainable. I think there is still a little bit of room for improvement.

Okay. And then, when we look at the operating expenses, it's pretty steady at $103 million and I just wonder, can we look at that on a fixed dollar basis or is that going to be somewhat variable with the sales number?

It's been reduced significantly quarter-to-quarter over the last year. And second is yes, there is a portion there that is quite variable based on volume like everything that has to do in the U.S. with delivery, with material handling and so on, so forth, that is really variable. This being said, obviously, as you increase the volume, your absorption of fixed cost is higher and that certainly leads to higher EBITDA percentages in the second and third quarter, which are the two stronger quarters certainly compared to the first one and even to the fourth one.

Okay. Because just even if I look at Q4, it was $103 million. In Q1, it was $103 million and Q4 sales were obviously much higher than Q1's. So I am just wondering if there is like if it should trend kind of somewhere around that range or if we should expect it to spike up in Q2 or Q3?

Tell you the truth, you surprised me when you say that. I'll have to go and look at my figures because I expected Q1 dollars of expenses were lower than Q4.

Okay. They actually were. I guess I am peeling out ERP and restructuring costs to take a look at it just to caveat that. Okay. I could follow up with you after on that.

And also the foreign exchange, and I'll double check before you call on the number of days, maybe the quarter or last quarter was not the same number of days. So we have to double check that.

Okay, that's fair. And then just maybe a question on balance sheet. I wondered, I mean the acquisitions did use up some cash and cause the leverage to go up. How comfortable are you continuing along with tuck-in acquisitions? You've just got about $95 million in available credit. You could have swings in working capital. I mean, do you feel like it's the time to continue to do acquisitions or can you take a pause for a while until you get that net debt to EBITDA down?

I'll answer the other way around, Sara, if you allow me. Right now in the first quarter, we have lowered the inventory by about $30 million. Temporarily, it created a reduction in accounts payable of $30 million. So no impact on the operating bank debt other than the cash that we disburse for the acquisitions, which increase that. In the second quarter and third quarter, what we expect though is that those decrease in accounts payable will translate into a decrease in bank debt. So when I was saying that in the second half of 2014, I do expect that we will be below 2.5 times EBITDA in terms of bank and for our bank covenant computation where we are at 2.86 times. I did not factor in a lot of acquisitions. I think earlier in one of my comments, I said that, yes, we will be looking at acquisitions, we'll be making some, but right now there is nothing major on the horizon.

Okay. So I mean is it fair to say that your objective is more to get to 2.5 times and to make acquisitions or do you...?

I would say, yes, that is a fair statement, but then again if there is acquisitions that make a lot of sense, we will not let that stop us. But again, we are very stringent on the criteria that we use for acquisitions to pass the filter.

Okay. That's fair. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon. Can you guys just comment, you've increased the authorized limit on the vendor financing program to $225 million from $175 million. Are you guys looking to extend your payables more aggressively through the balance of the year?

Yes. Our goal is really to attract – try to attract any potential suppliers to be part of that program. We don't have any one line right now as we speak, but our goal is really to continue to entry this program. It's a very good program for us and right now as Richard mentioned, it's really temporary that we reduce our payables, but that didn't change at all the payment terms. So it's just a question of the fact – due to the fact that we return goods to suppliers.

Is there a target on a days payable basis that or maybe better in account payable to inventory ratio that you would like to sustain?

Yes, there is. I would be pleased with 110 days.

110 days? Okay.

Yeah.

Just in terms of the inventory reduction, in the Action Plan table that you provide you indicate a number of $9 million that goes up against the $30 million reduction we saw on the balance sheet. Can you just indicate like what exactly is the discrepancy there?

Well, because we have other operations and even within the [ph] U.S. auto parts (36:08) group that have lowered inventory, but not related to the closure of the locations that that $30 million figure is related to the closures and the $9 million of what we disposed off during the quarter returned to vendors came from locations that we had closed in previous quarters and that we were going through the inventory.

A very good example of that. FinishMaster reduced their inventory temporarily and in April they receive additional stock. So we cannot take that into account when we look at the Action Plan related to the automotive.

Exactly. And even in the U.S. automotive plan, their overall inventory level outside of the locations that are closed were little bit lower than usual. We are building some of that back due to higher season coming in right now. So you've got life outside of the Action Plan and that's really where it's coming from.

If I think of the inventory level on a gross dollar basis, it's at about $502 million. Should it be stable there or should I see it [indiscernible] (37:21)?

No. We do expect that by the end of the year, it will go down – it will continue to go down, I would say, probably at least another $20 million.

Okay. And then on the acquisitions, have you guys talked about what the sales contribution is from those deals?

No. We have not mentioned it. The sales contribution of those two acquisitions will be about $30 million, $40 million in that – well, not in the first quarter, but because J.K. distributing happened only at the end of the quarter, but basically for this quarter it's $4 million, but on an annual basis about $30 million. [ph]

From all three (37:58).

Yes, [ph] four (38:01).

Okay.

$4 million in Q1, but $30 million on an annual basis.

$30 million on an annual basis? Okay. And just to circle back, just on the gross margin again, it has been dropping due to the negative distribution channel mix, and then you highlighted also lower vendor incentives in the quarter. Do you expect it to continue to fall or should it start to level off at some point? I know that Sara asked this question too, but I'm just asking it again?

Well, you will have the same answer that I gave Sara, which is that we are not expecting to fall again.

Okay. That's it. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] There are no further questions registered at this time. So I would like to turn back the meeting over to you, Mr. Roy.

Okay. Well, thank you very much for your interest. And I guess, in closing, I just would like to make a comment, and you know we don't give guidance and I don't intend to start that too, but I will just point out that if you look at the rolling 12 months, the earnings per share has been $2.50 per share. I know we've reported $2.37 in 2013, but if you look at the rolling 12 months to 2014, so I'm being factual here for the past before my legal advisor here shoots me, because we're not giving guidance, but we have reported $2.50 per share, which is quite frankly at [ph] $1.1 (39:40) is the equivalent of C$2.75 per share in our Canadian dollar. Our stock has traded in Canadian dollar.

I've also mentioned to some of you, who have asked me individually and I would like to make the statement that the Board of Directors has aligned the compensation of management in 2014 in a way where no incentive would be paid if the earnings per share are below $2.60 per share, which really is almost 10% growth over the $2.37 that we reported last year. And it's pretty logical when you think of it because we're already running a 12 months – rolling 12 months of $2.50. So I just would like people to keep that in mind whenever you look at the performance of Uni-Sélect. Okay.

So this being said, I want to thank you very, very much for your interest and really appreciate all of the attention and your questions that are very good, and I look forward to talk to you again and have a similar call at the end of July when we announce our results of the second quarter. Thank you everyone and have a nice balance of day. Take care.

Thank you, Mr. Roy. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. And we thank you for your participation.