Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations and Communications Manager, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President & Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Brent Windom — Co-President & Chief Executive Officer, The Pep Boys-Manny Moe & Jack
Steven J. Arndt — President and Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and Chief Operating Officer, Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Justin Wu — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Michael Glen — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, please standby. Your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2013 Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager in Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. Welcome to Uni-Sélect 2013 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end financial results conference call. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO. Also joining me this afternoon are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster; Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; and Brent Windom, President and COO, Automotive USA.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our most recent annual report available on SEDAR.

I will now turn the call over to Richard Roy, who will discuss key operational highlights for the quarter and the year. He will be followed by Denis Mathieu, who will discuss the financial results. Following their presentation, we will open up the call for questions. Richard?

Thank you very much, Karine. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I am very pleased to report strong results once again this quarter. I am also delighted by our year-end results, which underline the soundness of our various growth initiatives and show steady improvements in our performance.

2013 will be remembered as a milestone year in the long-term growth strategy of Uni-Sélect. In a year, where we initially faced more demanding market condition and challenges in the roll-out of our ERP software, we remained entirely focused on execution and continuing to work towards the achievement of our goals. We began posting solid returns in the third quarter and ended the year on a very strong note with organic revenues up 5.5% in the fourth quarter.

In the fourth quarter, we continued to make major progress under our action plan. In the quarter, we closed five stores and one warehouse and sold six stores to some of our customers. In total, we reduced our network by 40 stores and seven warehouses since last July.

In early 2014, we opened the new regional distribution center in Washington D.C. This new, 120,000 square feet warehouse provides us with a highly efficient distribution, featuring an expensive product range with complete SAP integration, our new facility offers Uni-Sélect's customer in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, and Southern Pennsylvania with next-day delivery and access to over $8 million worth of inventory.

Not only is the action plan meeting to increase efficiency within our distribution network, but it is also rapidly delivering recurring savings while maximizing shareholder value. In the fourth quarter alone, our operating margin doubled to 5.8% from 2.9% a year ago. Only seven months into the action plan, we have already recorded nearly half of the projected $30 billion worth of savings. We were also successful in protecting a higher than expected sales volume across closed stores and warehouses. I'm glad to report that our team's focus on new sales initiatives, customer recruitment and service level improvements are starting to yield the expected results, delivering healthy growth on both sides of the border and paving the way for promising opportunities in the future, especially given our reduced cost structure.

We celebrated a significant achievement last December, as we completed the implementation of our ERP software. Our new resource planning system was deployed in 37 automotive parts distribution centers and all of their related stores. We now have real-time access to comprehensive data on our products, logistics and finances. Our new software allows more flexibility in selling prices and an accounting for fluctuations in regional markets. The system also enables improved inventory management.

In turn, our customers now have quick and easy access to the products offered throughout our network, which simplifies the ordering process. Customers also benefit from increased warehouse productivity and greater delivery accuracy.

As the New Year begins, we'll keep our focus on executing the action plan to optimize our operations and achieve our inventory in cost reduction objectives. We also intend to focus on [ph] delivering (5:32) continued organic growth. Our goal is to focus on increasing the order volumes of our existing customers, while attracting new ones through our market-leading business solutions.

We'll maintain our approach to deliver superior fill rates, which should enable us to deliver increased profitability, allowing further growth and debt reduction.

Before I conclude, I would like to sincerely thank the member of our team who are the engines that drive our success. We acknowledge again their dedication and their collaboration, which enable us to better our operations, improve our sales and delivering improved service to our customers. I much appreciate their commitment and active participation to our growth.

And now for the financial review, Denis.

Thank you, Richard. And good afternoon, everyone. We had a strong fourth quarter which enabled us to end 2013 with a very positive note. Sales for the quarter reached $426 million or 1.8% increase over the same quarter last year. The 5.5% organic growth to which Richard referred earlier was partially offset by the 2.1% sales decline resulting from the store closures and the 1.6% decline explained by a weaker Canadian dollar.

Organic sales were positive in both United States and Canada, up 5.1% and 6.5% respectively. Adjusted EBITDA doubled this quarter from $12 million to $24 million. As Richard indicated our adjusted EBITDA margins also doubled to 5.8%. This significant improvement was driven by healthy sales growth and by more than $8 million in action plan related savings in the quarter or recurring cumulative savings of $13 million after seven months.

Seeking additional margin improvements will remain our main focus as we turn to the quarters ahead.

Looking at the bottom line, adjusted earnings for the quarter stood at $13 million or $0.62 per share, much higher than last year [ph] of (07:48) $0.26 per share, net earnings also grew sharply reaching $10 million or $0.48 per share, up from a $4 million or $0.21 per share last year.

For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales amount to $1,788 million, slightly below last year, the 0.5% decrease is attributable to planned revenue loss coming from store closure and to the impact of the declining Canadian dollar. In spite of the difficult momentum coming out of 2012 and the challenging start to the year, we posted an overall positive organic growth of 1.9% for the year.

Our adjusted EBITDA reached $101 million in 2013 compared to $95 million last year. Higher sales and action plan related savings were partially offset by the competitive pricing and negative distribution channel mix. EBITDA for the first quarter was also penalized by unplanned maintenance cost to stabilize the ERP software. The adjusted EBITDA margins grew from 5.3% to 5.7% for the year.

Now, if we compare the second semester of 2012 with the second semester of 2013, which includes benefits derived from the action plan, adjusted EBITDA grew by $18 million and the adjusted EBITDA margin went from 4.2% to 6.1%. Sales also improved by approximately $15 million.

Now, back in fiscal year of results adjusted earnings totaled an almost $51 million, a 10.4% increase over $46 million recorded a year earlier.

Net earnings came in below last year at $21 million due to the provision for the restructuring charges both during the second quarter of this year.

In 2013, we generated $77 million in cash from operating activities, of which $38 million were used either to repay bank debt or buyback shares. Debt repayment in 2013 were slightly lower than projected, mainly due to the timing of our investment in inventory for the new Washington D.C. – I mean, new warehouse in Washington.

Out outstanding debt now stands at $278 million, down 10% year-over-year. Our debt-to-EBITDA ratio for bank covenant purposes, stand now at 2.84 times, compared to 3.24 times last year. We remain committed to further reducing debt in 2014 and bring this ratio at the level of close to 2 times.

As a reminder, our financial results are reported in U.S. currency since 2011. The variation of the currency versus 2012 had a negative impact of $6.8 million on the fourth quarter sales and almost $15 million for the year. Earnings per share was impacted by $0.01 per share for the quarter and $0.03 per share for the year ended December 31st. Considering that our stock is trading in Canadian dollars, please keep in mind that the adjusted EBITDA – adjusted earnings per share for 2013 of US$2.37 is worth [ph] C$2.44 once (11:34) converted in Canadian dollars at the average rate of 2013.

So this concludes my financial review. So back to you Richard.

Thank you very much, Denis. I'm delighted by the progress that we've made in 2013, and by our team's ability to deliver strong growth after a disappointing first quarter. The strong impact of the action plan, the results of our sales initiatives and the early enhancements brought by our new systems, all contributed significantly to our results in both the four quarter and the year. Over and above these results, our team demonstrated its ability to tackle challenges and seize opportunities as well.

We are confident that our sales driven and distribution network initiatives will continue to contribute to our results in the quarter ahead. This being said, it is worth remembering that we continue to operate in an industry, where climate conditions have the ability to impact sales. In recent months, the more positive winter conditions in the north were outweighed by the extreme winter climate experienced in the southeastern of the U.S. forcing several store closures on a few occasions in recent weeks, thus impacting our 2014 sales.

On a more positive note, we took advantage of acquisition opportunities in the paint distribution sector by completing two small scale acquisitions in early 2014. One in Florida and the most recent one in Chicago and Colorado. These acquisitions will allow FinishMaster to expand its service offering and strengthen its market leadership within these markets.

Our industry continues to consolidate and we intend to capitalize on this trend, while delivering solid results and preserving our financial position, including the ongoing deleveraging of our balance sheet.

As Denis said a few moments ago, we intend to reduce debt level to a ratio that would be closer to two times. We will continue to rigorously assess any potential acquisition to make sure each transaction contributes rapidly to our results, and complement our current offering. The new ERP software in our optimized network will allow for more efficient integration, which means that future acquisitions will give [indiscernible] (13:59) impact [ph] and (14:02) synergies more rapidly.

As we now turn to 2014, we will continue to focus now on customer service experience, the value of our sales position, and the efficiency of our operations to remain a partner of choice for our independent shoppers and strengthen our leadership position in the automotive aftermarket product distribution.

Before we open up the line to your questions, I'm pleased to report that the board of directors has declared a dividend of $0.13 per share payable on April 22, 2014 to shareholders of record on March 31, 2014.

We are now ready to answer your questions. So, operator please.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good afternoon, Denis, good afternoon, Richard.

Good afternoon Benoit.

Just to come back on the weather, I understand, my thought was that it was a positive impact during Q4. Is there any number you could quantify in order to provide more color about how positive was the weather in the quarter?

That's really – I mean it was nice cold weather, and it always help. I will tell you in Q1 2014, we have seen positive sales impact in Canada due to the cold weather. On the other hand, in the U.S., because of several closures, we have seen negative impacts on our operations down there. Brent would you care, maybe to assess on this, what was the impact on your operation in January and February?

Sure. We've roughly seen between two days to five days of closures in 100 plus of our stores in the southeast and the northeast, eight of our major DCs have closures in two days to four days. We estimate the revenue impact roughly at about around $3 million impact in the first six weeks to eight weeks of the first year.

Okay. [indiscernible] (16:37)... [indiscernible]

(16:38) FinishMaster could you give us, maybe what was the impact?

Just like Brent, we had over 50 stores closed for at least one day in each month January, February, and we estimate the impact of slightly over $1.3 million.

Okay. And for the first part, I think if I am right. I understood $3 million, right?

For the U.S. auto parts, yes.

Okay. Perfect.

But I have to tell you also that even though we haven't quantified it. We had a very strong beginning in Canada due to the cold weather conditions and some of my smart-aleck colleagues remarked around the table Canadian don't close for snow in winter, we know how to deal with?

It's a good point. It's a good point. And just from comparison basis, I also understand that Q1 last year, in 2013, there was a good improvement versus Q4 2012, when I look at the organic growth. So is it fair to assume that also you will be facing a tougher comparison in terms of organic growth, Richard?

I would say that the main challenge that we have with Q1 so far remains the weather-related closure. That's really the main elements of challenge that we have.

Okay, perfect. And just for the Canadian dollar, you mentioned, very good color about 2013, and Q4 also. What about, assuming that it maintains at the current level, what could be the impact for the year in 2014 from it, on the top line and bottom line basis?

Well, basically we assume that the current exchange rate of the [ph] $1.10 (18:30) would remain, we had what a [ph] $1.04 (18:31) average this year?

Yeah.

So, you're talking about $0.06 and that's roughly $0.06 a share.

Yeah. Our rule of thumb is really $0.01 variation of the currency equaled to $0.01 per share.

Okay. Perfect, excellent. And... [indiscernible]

(18:47 – 18:53).

Could you talk a little bit about the revenue opportunities and maybe the expense related to that program? It seems a nice telematics solution?

Can you repeat the beginning of your question? Because, unfortunately I wasn't done answering the previous question. So, I'm afraid I stepped on you.

Okay, sorry, Richard. But, no, just wondering about the telematics solution, that you announced for the aftermarket, it seems to be a nice solution offer to about 5,000 repair shops. So, just wondering if you could comment about the revenue opportunities that it could represent and the deployment of the solution, and maybe the CapEx, is there any CapEx involved in there?

There is no CapEx involved. Brent, would you care to comment on the market opportunities.

Sure. Certainly, we've done it for a very strategic opportunity for our customers in securing their future growth and helping the shops grow that are on our banner programs both. And from an North American perspective, this is not only a U.S., but it is a Canadian initiative for all of our banners.

As far as [ph] time and (20:04) revenue expectation, at this point, we just began to roll out. I'm sure, we'll have more color on that as we get through the balance of 2014, but we believe there is a strategic differentiation in our banner programs and what we offer for our customers versus and a way for them to compete with the OEs as well as the major accounts.

Okay. Perfect. And maybe last question before I pass on. On the inventory side, you just lowered the inventory a little bit below what you were expecting, but is it fair to assume the difference will be reduced next year, so you could likely reduce your inventory by more than $22 million in 2014?

I think you're right Benoit, whatever [ph] inventory does (20:52) not get reduced in 2013 is basically timing, mainly related to a little delay in the opening of Washington. So we do expect to recoup that delay in 2014.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks for the time. I'll get back in queue.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you. Our next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Anthony.

Richard, can you give us some color in terms of your sustainable organic growth rate going forward. You think it's sustainable at these levels? And also could you give us some insight on inflationary pressure?

Okay. Well, what I will tell you on is, we do believe that organic growth is certainly sustainable, we have several initiatives, in terms of products and market initiatives. The publicly stated goal is to exceed the growth of the markets, so that we are increasing our market share. And I certainly believe that this as a target remains very viable, okay?

In terms of the inflationary pressure, I would say that other than in any sector, mainly in the paint sector, where we do see ongoing inflation this year as in previous years, in other areas of the business, on the hard parts business, there is hardly any inflationary pressure right now.

Okay. And then in terms of – could you quantify that a bit, in terms of paint side FinishMaster?

You want to take that one, what is the percentage of inflation that you've seen on the...

Typically it's somewhere between 3% and 4% per year. But it varies by vendor, but what we're guesstimating at this point is between 3% and 4%.

And Tony just on the market growth, [indiscernible] (23:02) as I'm sure you know is forecasting about 3.5% growth in the marketplace for the next coming years. So we're certainly targeting a higher figure than that.

Okay. And Richard could give us a bit of color in terms of competitive landscape, Canada versus U.S. operating regions?

Well, I don't think there has been too many changes in the operating or competitive landscape, whether that would be in Canada or the U.S. over the last quarter, it remains a competitive market, but the landscape has not changed from what it was a little while ago. [audio gap] (23:43) we do believe that we're gaining market share on both sides of the border for various reasons, but the market continues to be very competitive with little change at that level.

Okay. And last question. Has there been any pressure on margins tied to the drop shipments?

If you look at the increase in the drop shipment in the U.S., yes, it continues to be a factor, no doubt about that. And it's mainly on the U.S. side, the Canadian side is remaining very stable.

Okay. Well, thank you very much.

Yeah.

Thank you. Our next question is from Justin Wu. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. Just in terms of the organic growth. I guess, there's a number of gives and takes, I guess on the volume side you saw some of your sales initiatives and recruitments in market share gains contributing. Just wondering if you can comment on the other side in terms of mix and pricing and what if there is any difference between Canada and the U.S.?

I will simply say that pricing has not had a major change – major role to play, on the organic growth that we've seen in Canada or in the U.S., basically it's more like sales and product initiatives and Gary would you care to comment on some of the initiatives that you have in some of the outcomes.

Yeah. There's no doubt, in Canada, that we put a lot of emphasis in our [ph] mid-grade offerings (25:32), all that seems to be attracting a lot of new business from our customer base. And we have been aggressive in soliciting new business. So we've signed several new stores into our network. So both initiatives have started to gain some traction in Canada.

Brent, would you care to comment?

I would just echo a little bit of Gary's comments. We've seen the mid-grade, which does give us a stronger gross margin in the entry level. We are very strong with our Worlparts brands and also we were very proactive this year with our Beck/Arnley deployment. We are in the channel and it's been very, very well received and we've seen a significant growth in our Beck/Arnley and our foreign nameplate. And we've also seen a very large new business [ph] signing to vote (26:22) in our corporate stores in the [ph] channel as well (26:25).

Good. Steve, would you care to comment on the [ph] FPB (26:29) sector of the U.S.

We continue to have emphasis on traditional customers to grow that segment and had a significant increase year-over-year 2012 versus 2013, and are showing more increase in our MSO business, our multi-shop operator business this year. So we continue to push the new business, which gives us that market share gain we're looking for.

Okay, that's helpful.

Justin, [ph] frankly (27:01) do you have a pretty good picture now?

Yeah. That's helpful. And just to go back on the question – on the weather question, to get a better understanding conceptually, you guys talked about the store closures and understand the impact, but once the nasty and cold weather also have a positive impact on volumes, because of increased wear and tear, collision repair and other repairs, and particularly now that you also have the paint business, the positive impact on collision repair.

You are absolutely right, but that will be for the future. For the moment, if the snow stops or when the snow stops, people will be able to get to those collision centers, and the shops are pretty full for the coming weeks and months from what we understand. Same thing in terms of the wear and tear, but obviously that will be [indiscernible] (27:56) over the coming months as opposed to right now.

Okay. And then just in terms of your action plan on the cost savings in 2015, if I recall, you guys are looking at around $15 million of cost savings [indiscernible] (28:14) 2014, sorry. I was wondering if you can talk about the cadence of realizing those cost savings, they can be fairly even or frontend waited, backend waited?

Well, we are as we said, we were looking for a $10 million in 2013, we've already done $13 million. So we're [ph] eight (28:36) of that in the last quarter. So we are at a fairly good cliff to achieve the $50 million in improvement.

Okay. And I mean, you guys are ahead. So is there at some point you think that the $30 million cost saving you've targeted [indiscernible] (28:55) you hadn't reviewed that and maybe it's a little bit better in long-term?

Well, if you go back to some of my clings in the past, where I said that we need to bring the EBITDA over a three-year period north of 7%, you know that it's going to take more than that $30 million. This was the initial target that we set for ourselves. This becomes really the new norm for us in terms of looking at margin management and cost reductions and so on and so forth. So there is no doubt that we're not going to stop at the $30 million that we have in there.

Okay. Great. That is it from me. Thank you very much.

You are very welcome, Justin.

Thank you. Our next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi. It is Sara calling.

Hi, Sara.

Hi. Quick question on EBITDA margin. There is some commentary about gross profit being down on product mix or distribution mix. Can you comment a little bit further on that?

Okay. Gross margin is actually up in the sense that we have increased gross margin on all types of sales, whether they would be store sales to installer, warehouse sales, out of the warehouse itself, to jobbers, and even on the margin, on direct shipment to jobbers is up altogether. Now, given that you have a slightly larger proportion of direct shipments of the warehouse in the U.S. than you had before and there is about a 10% lower gross margin on those type of sales, unfortunately on a blended basis, there is a bit of pressure. And that's really why we'd been working in reducing our structure cost with the seven warehouses that have been – come back this year so far and what we will do in the rest of 2014.

Okay. And, I mean, just as direct ship, I think, is expected to grow in the U.S. going forward. Do you still have confidence you can get to that kind of 6.5%, 7% EBITDA margin in light of the fact that this is just going to be a constant kind of, pushback?

Definitely. When we did our network optimization plan that we presented back in July, we were looking at a percentage of direct shipment in the U.S. that would be close to 25%. We're actually in the 20% neighborhood right now.

Okay. And wondered just on the non-recurring stuff, if you could expand on like how the unplanned maintenance costs on ERP. I mean, is ERP – should we see anything related to that in 2014 and maybe same on the expenses for the network optimization plan and store closure. I would have thought that would impart your provision in 2014, just if you could go through those two elements?

Yeah. Just one thing I want to clarify. When you talk about 7%, this is still our objective. And, but I mentioned before that, that I'll have that objective over the next two fiscals of 2015.

Yeah.

I just want to make sure that timing wise we're not getting ahead of ourselves. This being said, in terms of the costs, we were referring to the costs that we had in Q1 of 2013, the ERP, when we have service interruptions as you will remember. So, now that we're done with the implementation in December, we've got some costs in early 2014, but they are minimal. As far as the costs related to the closures, we took a provision of $35 million last year and basically – $36 million – and basically, what we said is that, there would be about $9 million of cost that would be recognized and the P&L has incurred, because the accounting rules did not allow us to recognize them in advance. I mean, some like, for example, severances and elements like that, you've got to book when you [ph] expense (33:03) them. And we basically have published about $5 million of such cost to be incurred under P&L in 2014 and that's really what we would exclude when we talk about adjusted EBIT that would be that cost.

Okay. And would that be primarily in the front half of the year or does that go through the year, the $5 million?

No. That will go through the year, because some of the warehouses that we will be closing in 2014, some of them will be at the very end. I will remind you that our plan was consisted in – amongst other things to close 12 warehouses and open two new ones. We've just opened the first one which allows us to shutdown three warehouses and we consolidate the volume in that new warehouse. We had another one that we will open towards the end of the third quarter beginning of the fourth quarter, so the related warehouse consolidation activity will take place at the end of the year and there will be some cost involvement there and there will be some benefits that will still – to 2015.

Okay. And maybe just on – a follow-on to that. It is early days with the new warehouse, but I just wondered, how the logistics aspect is going in and if you've lost any customers based on that transition of geography?

Quite frankly, it's going very, very well. And one of the thing that I will bring to your attention is the fact that when we published back in July, our plan, we did expect to have about $20 million in sales erosion in 2013 due to that reorganization and [indiscernible] (34:38) actually saw erosion to the extent of $13 million. So we've been more successful in retaining sales in market that we have vacated. And as far as the opening of Washington, we have been very successful. Brent here could confirm that there was minimal inconvenience to the customer and that also explain to some extent why the inventories didn't go down as much as they did as we wanted at the end of December, because we really, really, really made sure that this new DC [indiscernible] (35:15) beginning to operate would have an excellent fill rate to serve our customers to eliminate inconvenience and you know the old saying says that you have only one opportunity to make a good first impression. We certainly did not want to miss that, so that's really how we managed it.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. Our next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi. Good afternoon. My first question is maybe more for Denis, you mentioned that the debt to EBITDA is at 2.84% last year and you're targeting closer to two times for 2014, based – I mean, is it fair to say that, I mean, you're expecting another $40 million to $50 million in debt reduction in this coming year?

Exactly. You're right on.

Okay. Okay. Well, sounds good. And can you just remind us what the current number of stores and warehouses is, after the closer that we saw in Q4 and the one opening?

Basically, as we have right now, there is 412 corporate stores, including [indiscernible] (36:32) that we have in Canada, the FinishMaster stores and the Uni-Sélect USA stores. And we have in terms of the national distribution centers, regional distribution centers and local distribution centers, we have about 40 somewhat locations.

And where is that in terms of where you wanted to be optimally, I mean, I know there's still some more store closures to come, I know you just mentioned...

We still have some work, if you do the math with what I said before, we still have about five warehouses to reduce in 2014 and we will open one.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, is that – and can we relate that a bit to the inventory? I mean, you were mentioning before that you're a little bit short on how much inventory reduction you're expecting for 2014, perhaps to accelerate that for – yeah, 2013 and perhaps to accelerate that in 2014, is that – can we see relationship with the number of stores and DCs out there or are there other initiatives as well?

Well, definitely you can relate that to the reduction in the number of DCs, mainly the stores were pretty much done and typically when you take two locations and you merge them into one, the rule of thumb is that, you will have a 30% reduction in the dollars of inventory that you have before. So, if you've got two warehouses with $10 million each, you'll end up with $14 million afterwards. And so, that's part of that. And there is also other initiatives that we're working on in terms of improving product assortment and simplifying some of the lines and so on and so forth that will yield some benefits.

Okay, great. And then, just a last one for me. You gave us very good color on the impact of the Canadian dollar. I just want to see what your, like internal view, internal, I guess budget would be for the coming year. I mean, we know it was a $1.04 average last year. What are your thoughts on that for the coming year? Thank you.

Well, Leon, if I knew what the currency exchange in the world were, I guess I'd be a billionaire and I wouldn't have to work 70 hours a week, but it's not such a big deal for us, in the sense that our Canadian operation is dealing in Canadian dollars and is buying in Canadian dollars with comps in Canadian dollars and while the U.S. operations are half cost in U.S. and have reduced in U.S. dollars. So, there is a natural hedge that we had in our operations. It becomes only an element of converting the Canadian operation into U.S. dollars each and every month. So, you work for a bank angle. They have a view and I would [indiscernible] (39:22) to them to see what is the best view. I certainly do not claim any kind of special knowledge there.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good afternoon.

Hi, Michael.

Could you just comment on – you guys have been taking advantage of some payables extension through the course of year. Is that something that we can look forward to over the course of 2014?

Yes. Michael, it's true. We have been able to increase our payables and more importantly also to extend term with some suppliers dealing directly with them. So what we have in mind for the next, I mean, next year we believe, I mean, we believe that we have some room on their with few other customers – suppliers that we started – we are in negotiation with two of three of them to try to have better terms.

Okay. Is there any sort of specific target you are looking at in terms of debt payable outstanding or anything like that?

The issue we have with that is, it's long, it's very long to have access to the cash flow because, let's say, that you already have 60 days in [ph] off turns (40:46) with the suppliers. If we, it's going to take – let's say, two months to have a deal with them, plus the 60 days normal terms, so at the end of the day, you will not see any advantage of it before the fourth quarter this year.

Okay, I see. And then, can you just comment on FinishMaster in the quarter? How did it perform relative to the U.S. business overall?

In the fourth quarter, it continued to do well. It's doing well and continues to do well.

Okay. Was same-store sales growth sort of above or below the 6.5%?

You know, Michael that we are not going into that level of detail.

Okay. Okay, that's it for me. Thanks a lot.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have a follow-up question from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah, my follow-up question is on the tax rate, just if you could provide some color about the tax rate in the quarter and what we could expect going forward on the sustainable effective tax rate? Thank you.

Okay. The tax rate that we are forecasting for 2014 is neighborhood of 19% to 20%, okay. The tax rate of the fourth quarter, everything depend of where the profit – the earnings was coming from. And as you know, the earnings coming from the U.S. has [indiscernible] (42:16) earnings, but when we take into account, also all the deduction and everything, this quarter was not representative of current quarters, because as you know, the first quarter and fourth quarter has a low income as compared to the second quarter and the third quarter. So, but on an annual basis, when you don't have any one-timers as we did this year, on an annual basis, 19% to 20% should be our current – our normal tax rate.

I guess, another way to see it is that, part of our tax [ph] spending (42:49) brings a tax reduction that is even every month.

Yeah.

So, fourth quarter tax saving, if I may use that as a same as the second quarter and third quarter, yes, it's a lower quarter in terms of activity and profits. So, the tax rate looks better, but on the average for the year the guidance that Denis has given is exact.

The tax savings we have for quarter is $3 million. It's flat $3 million per quarter. So, if the profit is coming from U.S. are higher at one quarter, automatically we end up with an average tax rate higher than it normally is.

Okay. Perfect. And just in terms of CapEx, what could we expect in 2014 in terms of CapEx overall?

CapEx for 2014, approximately $30 million.

$30 million.

Yes.

And is it – how would you compare that number to [ph] 2013 (43:54). Do you take into account the receipts on advance to merchant members?

No CapEx is not impacted by advances to merchant members. That's a totally different thing.

Okay. So, how do you define, sorry, your CapEx number, Richard?

Capital expenditures, it's really investment in fixed assets and intangibles.

Yeah. Including the fact that we're going to open a new warehouse in the third quarter, fourth quarter this year. And all the delivery trucks and cars.

Okay. Perfect. And maybe last question, just for the depreciation and amortization now that you've rollout the full ERP system, I know that there is some old system that will be done to amortize. What could we expect in 2014 on the D&A side?

I would be, right now we are at close to $29 million, I would go up to $32 million per year. That would be the new run rate.

Okay. Perfect. Okay. Thanks, again.

You're welcome.

Thank you. You have a follow-up question from Sara O'Brien. I like to apologize. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would like to turn the meeting back over to you, Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much. Well, on behalf of everyone joining me here in Boucherville, thank you very much for your time and your interest in Uni-Sélect. We will release our 2014 first quarter result at the Annual Shareholders Meeting to be held at the Mortagne Hotel in Boucherville on April 30.

We certainly would be delighted to have you as guests. Thank you and have a great end of day. Take care.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.