Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations and Communications Manager, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
William E. Alexande — President and Chief Operating Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, please standby. Your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Second Quarter Results 2012 Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager, Investor Relations.

Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thanks. Welcome to the 2012 second quarter review of Uni-Sélect, Inc. The speakers' today will be Richard G. Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, and CFO. Also attending the conference are Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; Willy Alexander, President and COO of U.S. Automotive; and Dan Courtney, President and COO of FinishMaster.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. Should [indiscernible] (01:01) with the nature of our disclaimers, please read our most recent Annual Report available on SEDAR.

Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information followed by Richard Roy, who will discuss operation highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will also answer your question.

Thank you, Karine. Good afternoon. The highlights for the second quarters versus 2011, the sales for the quarter are $8 million higher than last year at $483 million. The increase in revenue versus last year is mainly due to the sales generated by our latest acquisition in Florida amounting to $21 million and was partially offset by the temporary slowdown due to the economic and market conditions that prevailed during the quarter in the United States.

Organic sales declined by 1.8% or $8.4 million for the quarter. And this variation is mainly comprised – in Canada, by the way, and the sales were up by 0.4% or $600,000. And the U.S. organic sales were lower by almost $9 million or 2.8%.

The adjusted EBITDA at $31.9 million is 4.2% lower than last year at $33.3 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin at 6.6% is higher than previous quarter but represents a decrease as compared to last year. The margin decrease is mainly due to the lower sales activity. The additional costs related to the ERP implementation and unfavorable distribution channel mix, but that was partially offset by the improved buying conditions and proactive management on selling price and incremental margin derived from synergies realized on latest acquisitions.

Net earnings stood at $15.1 million or $0.70 per share, a decrease compared to last year at $18.5 million or $0.85 per share. Once adjusted for non-recurring items such as ERP, adjusted earnings were $16.1 million or $0.75 per share. Variations of exchange rate between the Canadian and the U.S. currencies impacted sales by $6.2 million in the quarter and net earnings by $400,000 versus last year.

For the six-month period, the sales for the semester were $62 million higher than last year at $933 million. The increase in revenue versus last year is mainly due to the impact of the purchase of the Florida assets amounting to $44 million compared to a positive organic growth of $8.2 million or almost 1% for the semester. [ph] Continuing on (04:04), our organic sales were up by almost 1% or $2.5 million, and the U.S. organic sales were higher by $5.8 million or also almost 1%.

Adjusted EBITDA for the semester at $59.2 million is 4.9% higher than last year at $56.4 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin at 6.3% represents a decrease compared to last year at 6.5%. The explanations provided to you earlier for the quarter also explain the reduction of the margin for the semester.

Net earnings stood at $26.3 million or $1.22 per share, a decrease of 6.6% compared to last year at $28.2 million or $1.30 per share. Once again, once adjusted for non-recurring items such as ERP, adjusted earnings were $29.1 million or $1.35 per share compared to last year at $1.41. Almost half of the reduction in net earnings for the semester came from the variation of exchange rate between the Canadian and the U.S. currency which impacted net earnings by $400,000 for the semester.

Finally, the inventory has been reduced by more than $50 million since the beginning of the year as planned. Debt has been reduced by $18 million during the second quarter of 2012. And based on our latest and valuable information, we are still forecasting to reduce total debt by approximately $100 million between – before December 31, 2012.

So, this concludes my financial overview of the second quarter. Richard?

Thank you very much, Denis. Basically, we know that this quarter was impacted by the slowdown in the United States. The fundamentals of our industry remain encouraging, though, as amongst other elements, the average age of the vehicles and the fleet size are – continue to grow. So, as it's usually the case we are cautious, but we are optimistic for the future.

If we look at the Canadian market now, despite again market conditions that prevailed in the economy and especially in Eastern Canada, the organic sales were up by 0.4% during the quarter compared to the same quarter last year.

Looking at the U.S. market, as Denis said, organic sales were down by 2.8%, so the sales for the second quarter of 2012 amounted to $337.4 million compared to $324.8 million for the second quarter last year. The contribution of the purchased assets in Florida is responsible for the revenue growth and that acquisition is really following the expectations that we have. Sales of the current new product for the Foreign Nameplate vehicles continued to grow significantly both within our own network of stores and with our independent [indiscernible] (07:22) customers.

The measures implemented over the last year have improved the margin, however, the change in distribution channel mix, as well as the costs related to the SAP rollout and higher IT maintenance and lower productivity more than counterbalanced the improvements.

During the quarter, we implemented our ERP software in six warehouses and 46 affiliated stores. The transition went very well with minimal disruptions, so we still expect better results in terms of productivity and financial performance once we complete the rollout of our new systems.

On July 27, we announced the change in our operational structure to enhance the responsibilities of the nominees and to deliver results in keeping with the corporation's strategic objectives. Gary O'Connor is appointed President and Chief Operating Officer, Automotive Canada; Willy Alexander, appointed President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Automotive; and Dan Courtney, President and Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster. Denis Mathieu is appointed Executive Vice President, Corporate Service and Chief Financial Officer. I am convinced that with this new structure, all our leaders will have the tools on hand to very well manage our business and reach our objectives of growth and performance.

Before I conclude, I would also like to inform you that we announced today a consolidation plan for our distribution network which also includes a reduction of the administrative expenses. The plan is being implemented as we speak and even has started to improve our efficiency and have a greater structure flexibility to really answer market changes and also seize growth opportunities.

The one-time cost and asset write-offs related to the consolidation plan are $22 million, of which $13 million are non-cash items. So, we'll be spending an additional $9 million. The plan will result in net assets reduction of approximately $45 million and cost savings of approximately $8 million this year between now and the end of the year, $22 million annually in the beginning of 2013.

In addition to the implementation of the consolidation plan, we will continue to focus on the following objectives: maintaining our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations through increased sales, improved productivity and improved margins, as well as continue our stringent controls over cost.

We will continue to reduce working capital in order to decrease the level of indebtedness. We'll pursue the integration of FinishMaster, and as well as those of the assets acquired in Florida. And finally, we'll pursue the orderly deployment of the Enterprise Resource Planning system that we will conclude in early 2013.

In closing, I would like to inform you that the board of directors today has approved the declaration of the dividends of CAD 0.13 per share payable in October 19, 2012 to common shareholders of record on September 30, 2012. You probably also have noticed that we have renewed our common share buyback program.

This completes our 2012 second quarter review. We're now ready for your questions. Please feel free to ask your questions either in French or in English, and we'll answer you in the same language. Thank you very much.

Thank you. We will now take question from the telephone line. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from [ph] Elaine Lee (11:25). Please go ahead.

Thank you. Just want to ask a question on the rationalization plan, which regions and products are the focus, and do these initiatives impact for Auto Parts Depot or FinishMaster?

Yeah, there is no impact on FinishMaster to tell you the truth. And Parts Depot or the Florida operation is part of the U.S. operation and we're really looking at streamlining the network. By the way, my colleagues are mentioning to me that I misspoke a minute ago when I mentioned – I believe I mentioned $22 million. It's really $20 million annually beginning in 2013. And that's really the EBITDA impact.

But, it's really all of that – the vast majority of that, I should say, is really within our U.S. parts operation. And that's really where we will be having most of the cost rationalization with a little bit touching here at the corporate office.

Okay. So, have you already – or do you guys have planned already of how many stores and/or warehouses that you're planning to close down?

I'm sorry, [ph] Elaine (12:36). I have very difficult time to hear you. You've been cutting out. I think you're asking me if we've planned already which locations and all of that we're going to close down.

That's right. Yes.

The answer is yes.

Is there any number that you guys could give us in terms of stores or warehouses?

At this stage, nothing that I feel comfortable. You will understand that we would like first to talk to our people there. But, it's going to be – it's not going to be such a large number, but what happens is where we have overlapping locations, we'll be closing some of them. We'll be rightsizing a lot of other locations. We'll be opening some hub stores also where we've got regular stores to make sure that we look after our customers. So, at the end of the day, a lot of the locations will be affected. The net closing is not going to be that large.

Okay. And on the $20 million of savings that you were talking about, is that really incremental EBITDA how we should be thinking about it, or is it really more an offset to the lower volumes or pricing pressure you've been seeing?

Well, the $20 million is cost reductions. So, I don't know how you would say offset for this or that. It's real dollars, okay, in terms of the cost. What I will tell you is there's about $2 million included in there that were part of the $15 million cost reductions that we always talked about in terms of the SAP benefits going forward. Of that $20 million, about $2 million is really the rationalization or the realization of the beginning of that $15 million. So, there's still another $13 million that would be left there, okay?

Okay. So, I guess, why I was asking is more just in terms of EBITDA, do you expect a list from this initiative or do you see a stabilizing trend from here?

Well, you know if you look at that $20 million EBITDA, it's north of 1% of our EBITDA rate. So, you would see a list from there. Obviously, if the sales are high – get better, then that would be more of a list.

Okay. And just last question, just on volume trends. Obviously in the U.S. and perhaps maybe now in Eastern Canada, there seem some softness. Have you seen any turnaround so far into Q3?

I'm not sure I would use the word turnaround. That probably would be overstating it, but when we look at the July sales, I think that there is room for us to believe that Q2 was probably the bottom of the barrel.

Okay. But have you seen at least...

So, if you read me, it's slightly better in July.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon. Just a follow-up on the rationalization efforts. Can you discuss the $22 million? Can you discuss how much of it – how much you plan to record in 2012 versus 2013?

The $22 million worth of one-time costs?

Yeah. There is any...

Yeah. Thank you, Richard. The one-time cost in 2012, I think Richard mentioned that there is a $30 million out of it that is non-cash. That non-cash will happen in 2012. And part of the cash items, $9 million, only two will happen in 2012. So, in 2013, the remaining of the $22 million will be only $7 million. So, the cash portion will be split between $2 million in 2012 and $7 million in 2013.

Okay. Great. That's helpful. And then, just moving on to the weak organic growth rates particularly in the U.S., first quarter. Can you tell us like whether there was any major issues that impacted the quarter? And again, you mentioned that July was looking a little bit better. But, I mean, what should we expect in the second half of the year?

Well, you know, Otto that we're not giving guidance. So, that's something that we always stay away from that. What we mentioned is exactly what we meant which is that in July, the situation is a little bit better than what it was during the second quarter. And we have seen a bit of improvement at that level.

I think, you also asked whether there was any major item that explained the decrease, if that's what I heard at the beginning of your question.

Yes.

I could ask my colleagues. Maybe Willy to comment on that if there's anything specific that...

I don't think there's any one major one item that's driving it. The general economic slowness, election year, seasonal trends, not developing the way that they have in the past, all are contributing towards weaker demand at the bay level. So, no one individual thing. A lot of headwinds adding up to making a difficult operating environment.

Okay. That's helpful. And maybe just a little more color on Canada, the 0.4% organic growth rate. I mean, was there any more color on that?

Just saying that Western Canada is doing very well. The economic situation there is strong and we have some certain issues that we started that are starting to bear with and help us solve. Basically, really, Western Canada is helping us.

Okay. Okay. That's all I have for now. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Tony.

Richard, just coming back to the question with reference to unfavorable product mix. If we look at it closer, was it consumer-driven or was it operational in nature?

No. Basically, we're offering different programs to our independent jobbers, where they can buy more through direct shipment in the U.S. than warehouse shipment. And the progression there has skewed the sales towards these drop shipment, the direct shipment that's supposed to be warehouse sales. And as you know, the margin on those sales is not as large.

And then, could you remind us what the proportion of our business is now direct shipment? And what is it today versus where it was?

Well, the figures that we will be quoting is going to be for the U.S because in Canada, as you know, for a long time, it's been very close to 50/50. But in the U.S., basically, it's about 15% right now. And I will tell you that 18 months ago, it's worth less than 10%.

Okay. So, it's moving up in the trend?

Yes, that's right. And a part of the cost rationalization that we've announced today is driven by this. We need to basically recognize this shift in our business and adjust our operating cost down to meet this.

And if we look at inflation, was there any inflation this quarter or are we seeing anything in...

No. We're not really seeing any inflation of notice during the quarter.

Okay. And was that...

Yeah. Maybe a little bit on the paid side but not on the part side.

Okay. And then with reference to your buying conditions, do you expect conditions to remain in place or should they improve in your favor?

No. That's something that is part of our job day in, day out. We always work very hard on that, doing some direct sourcing also in some categories and so on and so forth. So, that's something that we continue to work on and that's part of the ongoing business model.

And then last question. With reference to the M&A landscape, what are you seeing out there and how have the multiples evolved?

Well, we haven't announced any transactions. So, until we really do a transaction, that's really when we see the multiple. I will tell you, that's while we continue to be very interested, and look, our major focus right now has been to integrate the acquisitions we did and also deleverage the balance sheet.

Okay. Thank you, Richard.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you. My question is regarding the FinishMaster. Can you maybe provide some color on what happened there regarding organic growth? I mean, in the U.S., we see that there was a decline. Was FinishMaster a contributor to that, or what was the situation there?

No, the situation at FinishMaster is we're gaining market share there, I would believe, and certainly it was not part of the decline that we have had. It's really on the Parts side.

So, can we assume that FinishMaster had positive organic growth?

The answer is yes.

Okay. Then I guess shifting to the working capital, you mentioned that you expect a reduction in working capital. What's the internal target that you've set out, and maybe what would it be for the end of the year?

Okay. What we mentioned at the first quarter is that we are forecasting to reduce the debt by $100 million. In that $100 million, $50 million was supposed to come from the inventory reduction and also working capital, but reduction of our inventory but more importantly also the extended terms from the payables and also from the net free cash flow generated from the operation. So, when you combine the three, technically, we're supposed to reach that $100 million.

And everything's on track for that to happen by the end of the year?

Yes.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from [ph] Elaine Lee (23:13). Please go ahead.

Hi. Just a quick follow-up. I was just looking through covenants in the financials, and it looks like, obviously, the funded debt-to-EBITDA looks like the one to – the one in particular to take notice. And I'm just wondering if this covenant excludes the upcoming charges that you're talking about for the rationalization cost?

The answer to that is that most of the charge is non-cash, so it will exclude that.

Okay. I can also follow up offline as well.

Thank you. The next question is from Mr. [indiscernible] (24:00). Please go ahead.

Hi. Can you please comment on return on capital that's been tracking up at FinishMaster including the cross-selling opportunities and synergies? Thank you.

Basically, if you look at the synergies that we were – as we advertised for FinishMaster, we were talking about $6 million of cumulative synergies during the second year which is 2012. And, right now, we are tracking to exceed that $6 million, probably more like $7 million for the year. So, we're on track there, and it's going very well.

As far as the cross-selling synergies are concerned, we've just started some program, some test program, and it's still very early to really see the definitive results, but we continue to be optimistic about achieving our targets there.

Thank you. We have no more questions at this time. Please go ahead, Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much for your interest in our second quarter results. We really appreciate your presence on the call. And I will tell you that we continue to be extremely positive and we'll continue to work to streamline the operations and improve the return to our shareholders.

With this, I look forward to talk to you during the third quarter results and basically give you more follow-up in terms our progress with those various initiatives. So, we'll be talking to you in early November.

Take care, everyone, and thank you very much.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.