Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Denis Mathieu — Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Select, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Select, Inc.
Henry Buckley — Chief Operating Officer, Uni-Select, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Juliane Szeto — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Michael Glen — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2015 Second Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Richard Roy and Mr. Henry Buckley. Please go ahead Mr. Mathieu.

Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to our Uni-Select second quarter financial results conference call. Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of security legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our latest Annual Report available on SEDAR, as well as in the press release issued earlier today.

I will first turn the call over to Richard Roy, who will outline the key highlights of the last quarter. Henry Buckley will then discuss the ongoing operations priorities while I will go over some of the key financial highlights for Q2. After our presentation, we will open up the call to questions.

Richard?

Thank you, Denis, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. During the second quarter, we continued to deliver against our plan and we are very pleased with the progress we are making. You will likely recall that at the end of last year, we had indicated that after two years of focus on costs optimization, our number one priority for 2015 was going to be profitable top-line growth.

I am delighted to see that both segments are contributing strongly towards that objective. In fact, the 14.7% decline in consolidated sales of this quarter is entirely explained by the two months versus three months factor of operations of the sold Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts activities as well as by the decline of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. currency.

Beyond these two considerations, our consolidated organic sales grew a healthy 3.7% during the second quarter, on top of a solid organic growth realized during the same quarter last year. This performance was driven by a strong customer recruitment effort from our paint and related product themes as well as by our customer centric strategies.

Excluding impairment and transaction charges and one-time items, including a net reversal of restructuring charges, our adjusted EBITDA reached $31.1 million during the second quarter, only $250,000 lower than last year even with one less month of operation of the divested activities. This performance resulted in an adjusted EBITDA margin of 7.6%, up sharply from 6.5% last year.

Adjusted earnings increased by 21.1% to reach $20 million or $0.94 per share compared to $0.77 per share last year. Once converted to Canadian dollars, adjusted earnings per share reached C$1.16 for the second quarter, up 38.1% compared to C$0.84 per share in 2014.

Before I turn the call over to Henry, let me say how proud I am to see Uni-Select emerge as the substantially more profitable operation featuring a very strong balance sheet. This illustrates the soundness of our vision for the future and our strategy to win one automotive and paint customer at a time through a customized approach that truly puts customer first.

Henry?

Thank you, Richard. Hello, everyone. I'm pleased to report that both our segments provided very satisfying results this quarter. In Automotive, organic sales grew 3% in the second quarter. Adjusted EBITDA for the Automotive segment decreased $14 million, as Richard said, our performance again mainly explained by the inclusion of only two months of the operation of the U.S. activities in Q2 as well as lower productivity of those U.S. operations.

We continue to accelerate growth in the Canadian Automotive business. We will clearly continue to focus on organic growth with our strong leadership team and will be additionally focused on building on our corporate store business.

In terms of FinishMaster, the sales of our paint and related product segment grew 5.7% to $155.4 million or 4.4% organically. Segment EBITDA reached $19.2 million, up 24.1% versus last year. Since the beginning of the year, we have made improvements to our sales programs, grew our gross margins due to strategic inventory purchases and integrated accretive business acquisitions. We are confident, as we begin to compare our results on an apples-to-apples basis in the quarters ahead, we will continue to see similar sales and profitability growth patterns across both our businesses. The one common threat across both segments remains our commitment to creating maximum value for our customers.

The pursuit of this ongoing objective vests on a combination of adjustments to our sale strategy and sales force structures as well as on our permanent review – we're in a permanent review process for both our product offering and the optimization of our distribution network and supply chain to deliver exceptional fill rates.

An example of how we improve our distribution is a recent opening of the National Distribution Centre in Toronto to service our private brand products. This 100,000 square foot DC is now fully operational and allows us to better serve our Canadian customers from coast-to-coast. FinishMaster is also working tirelessly on opening a fourth distribution center on the American East Coast. This new DC should be in operation in Q4.

We've always said that the future growth in Uni-Select would come both organically and through acquisitions. In the first half of the year, we completed four acquisitions, three in the United States and one in Canada. One enabled us to strengthen our presence in the Floridian market, paint products market with the acquisition of Sea Hawk Refinish Line, a family-owned business in the Tampa Bay area.

We also purchased the remaining 50% equity interest of Wilter Automotive & Industrial Supply in Alberta, a leading regional automotive aftermarket player, adding it to our growing corporate store network.

In May, we added two more key acquisitions aimed at reinforcing the reach of our paint and related products segment. FinishMaster acquired the assets of two aftermarket distributors, Ray's Auto Paints & Supplies located in California and Sandhills Automotive Refinishes in North Carolina. Both are family-owned businesses. Both have proven to be well established leaders in their respective markets and both have showed tremendous commitment and desire to contribute to FinishMaster's growth. Their addition will help us drive more value for all our stakeholders and extend our footprint to better service our U.S. customers.

Our commitment towards profitable top-line growth remains our number one priority for 2015 and we are confident to be able to continue attracting new customers to Uni-Select.

Now, let me turn the call over to Denis Mathieu. Denis?

Thank you, Henry. Before anything, let me remind you once again that giving the closing of the sales of our U.S products distribution business on June 1, the Q2 and the year-to-date results presented today and discussed on this call include the operation of Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley up until May 31, 2015, both on a consolidated basis and within the Automotive segment. That being said, let me address fewer important financial housekeeping items pertaining to our second quarter results.

The first technical element to consider when analyzing our results today is that on June 1, 2015, we immediately applied $278 million of the transaction net cash proceeds of $324 million towards our outstanding debt which was paid back in full. As such, Uni-Select is now debt-free and as of June 30, 2015, the Corporation had $78 million in cash and $405 million in available credit facility. This provides Uni-Select with the resources and flexibility to actively focus on its organic and acquisition growth driven strategy.

As a second element, I would like to highlight that the EBITDA for the period includes impairment and transaction charges of $13.5 million and the net reversal of restructuring charges of $1.7 million. This last provision now being reversed was originally taken in the context of the action plan enacted in 2013 and which ended with the closing of the transaction.

My last housekeeping item is the fact that the Canadian dollars has remained low. For the first semester against the U.S. currency, the Canadian dollar traded on average C$0.11 lower than a year ago. This should continue to be a factor during the next few quarters when comparing our converted Canadian results with the previous year, even if the currency fluctuations have no impact on cash flow.

Of course, the counter effect of the weaker Canadian dollar against the U.S. currency is that adjusted earnings per share for the six-month period amounts to C$1.74 compared to C$1.35 in 2014, up almost 30% year-over-year.

Now, entering the second half of 2015, we would like to reiterate – I mean as we reiterated earlier indication that we expect to generate on a pro forma annual basis sales of $1.1 billion, of which 55% should be in USA and adjusted EBITDA in the upper range of 7% to 8%.

I know that a lot of you are wondering about our [ph] comps (11:13) Q2 would have looked like in 2014 without the result of the U.S. Automobile operations that we sold. We estimate that excluding those operations, both our Q2 2014 and Q2 2015 EBITDA margin would have been approximately a full 2% higher than reported, but please keep in mind the ever important notion of seasonality.

Q2 traditionally being our largest quarter of the year, margins are therefore higher due to the fact that a significant portion of our cost is fixed. So this completes my financial review. And as you all know, tomorrow will be my last day as a member of Uni-Select's family. I wish to take this opportunity to extend most sincere thank you to each of the analysts and associates with whom I've collaborated over the years.

Thank you for your support, professionalism and for the quality of your input and analysis. I sincerely hope that our path will cross again in the near future. Back to you, Richard.

Thank you very much, Henry and Denis. Our second quarter results are starting to display the new profile of Uni-Select featuring namely two solid segments where we hold the key leadership position in the markets where we operate, a strong focus and profitable top-line growth and ongoing commitment to optimize costs as illustrated by our recent efforts to right-size our corporate and support functions, and finally, a very solid balance sheet with the flexibility to seize opportunities and invest in our future.

I wish to reiterate that Uni-Select will spare no effort to continue fostering a customer-centric culture throughout all of our units in order to provide the best customer service in the industry. Such a vision will help us leverage all business opportunities whether it is retaining and recruiting customers, identifying enrollment in our banner programs, enhancing our product offering or seizing acquisition opportunities. And we will achieve this with only one ultimate goal in mind creating value for our shareholders. With the same key principle in my mind, I am pleased to announce that our board of directors has approved earlier today another quarterly dividend of C$0.16 a share.

Let me conclude my remarks today on a more personal note. I have had the privilege of serving Uni-Select for the past 17 years including over seven years in my current role. Over the years, I had met and worked with very talented, passionate and committed people and will cherish the memories and relationship I had built here for the rest of my life. It is with mixed feelings but a profound sense of accomplishment that I will leave tomorrow a healthy company that is more than ever geared for growth.

I am confident that Uni-Select is in very good hands, as Henry takes over, the exciting challenge of making Uni-Select an ever more profitable and performing company. As you know, I won't be far as shareholders of the Corporation have entrusted me this spring with a mandate to serve as director on the board of Uni-Select.

Thank you. And we are now ready to answer your questions. Operator?

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Good afternoon, everyone and congratulations for the good quarter, also at the same time, best of luck to you, Denis and Richard. It's been a pleasure to work with you over the years. So good job.

Thank you very much, Benoit.

Yeah. Just first question, I was wondering if you could comment a little bit about the organic growth on the Automotive side, 3% in the quarter, pretty solid performance. I was wondering whether it's been also held by the fact that there is some conversion at the independent jobber level. And also if you could provide more details about the corporate stores strategy going forward?

Good questions, Benoit. I will ask my friend, Gary, who is here to comment on that.

Well, I mean yeah, we did have a good quarter, and we believe that we can sustain this organic growth for a significant period of time. I think we've made a lot of headway with our membership.

As for the corporate store strategy, obviously, we do have a handful of stores right now. And we do have some opportunities going forward to grow that number. The business is changing, so we will be [ph] trending (16:34). Part of our focus will be on that aspect of our business to make sure that we sustain our growth and our buying power.

Okay.

Okay. There was no real conversion during the quarter from corporate store – to corporate store.

And also Benoit, it's in line with what we said at the end of the first quarter, when we said that the first quarter was very, very slow and some business were transferred also to the second quarter, and also from the fourth quarter to the first quarter. So at the end of the day, overall, I mean the trend is that we have right now is more sustainable.

Okay, perfect. And when we look now in terms of EBITDA margin, obviously, another strong performance, but I'm curious a little bit on the paint side, you reported 12.6%. You mentioned better margins with the vendor incentive, but also additional profit from purchase before expected pricing increase. So what is the magnitude of the impact on the margins and also whether this performance is sustainable going forward?

Well, Benoit, if you remember, last quarter I mentioned that the 10.7% that we had reported on at that time was probably on the high side.

Exactly.

So obviously, I am proven wrong and I love it. I don't mind being proven wrong any time when it's on the positive side, but we still feel that the margin that we are reporting this quarter is on the high side of what is really sustainable.

Okay. Is it more a matter of the U.S. dollar ramping up, so which means that you could see additional tailwind in Q3, if the Canadian dollar continues on its way?

If you are talking about the EBITDA margin for FinishMaster, no, that is not a factor at all.

Okay.

Don't forget, FinishMaster results are in U.S. currency and are located in U.S. So there is not at all – I mean there is no impact on the currency on this one.

Okay. Okay, perfect. And now, obviously, you finished the quarter with a very strong balance sheet. Could you provide maybe some color about the M&A outlook, it seems you see an acceleration in the pipeline? So I'm just curious to know what we should expect in the second half this year.

Yeah. Thanks, Benoit. The reality is, we've been working on our acquisition strategy for quite some time now. So we've got a very robust pipeline, in both the FinishMaster business and the Canadian Automotive business. So we're very optimistic in terms of that pipeline, but of course, that will – the timing, I mean, of such acquisitions come when they come, and that's something that we can't necessarily predict, but that's certainly something we're high focused on.

Okay. And lastly, on the dividend side, you were kind of a 21% in the low end of your range despite the increase, so I'm just curious to know if we could expect the further dividend increase during the year, or probably, once a year, so 2016?

Basically, as you know, our best practice has been to reset our quarterly dividend once a year, basically, in the early – after the results of the first quarter. So we do not expect to change that practice.

Okay. Thank you very much for the time, and I'll get back in the queue. Thanks.

Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon. Let me be the second person here to wish you guys good luck in your future endeavors and it was a pleasure on my behalf as well to be dealing with you over the last few years.

Thank you, Leon. Thank you.

So if I can jump into some of the questions here, just a follow-up on the previous question regarding the EBITDA margin on the paint side. You did mention that the 12.6% is at the higher end of what you'd be expecting, as well as in Q1 the 10.7%. Can we just dive into a little bit more color on that as to why that's happening? Is it due to a pricing increase? You are mentioning that there's higher incentive on the vendor side. So I'm just trying to get my – just trying to understand what would make a 2% increase occur in a given quarter like that?

Well, there is several elements, and these are two that we have mentioned there. And obviously, the team there has done a wonderful job of leveraging the operation, so realizing good organic growth on top on very high level last year, by the way, I'd like to mention that without increasing costs.

So it's a factor of all of those elements that have contributed to the great EBITDA margin this year. There's been a couple of small accretive acquisitions, but going forward, I mean I would say that all of the planets have lined up pretty well, and so that's why we believe that it's probably a little bit higher than what we can expect in longer term with. But I said that this being said, as I said that last quarter and I was proven wrong this quarter, but we – obviously, this is a very positive trend that we think is – we really experienced a very good quarter with all the planets lining up.

I'll only reiterate one point there is that Steve and the team at FinishMaster have done a great job that really truly aligning all of their costs with the sales growth. We're sort of poised and prepped to continue to accelerate that business, but we're very disciplined in terms of expense control and expense deployment. So we'll deploy expense as we need to, to get the returns to grow, but should our – that level of sales growth be moderated in anyway, we'll also moderate those costs. So Steve and the team have done an admirable job in terms of keeping those costs there.

Okay. And then on the pricing side, I mean you mentioned all these enhanced gross margins were before expected price increases, I mean do you see any potential for price increases in the near term or have you already done some of those?

Leon, on the paint side, as we've said before, the price increases have always been there and they tend to happen in several moments during the fiscal year. So there is nothing really that different. And Steve, would you like to comment on that or...?

The only additional thing [ph] I'm excited (23:07) is our smart product has contributed to the additional margins. We've had larger growth in that segment of our business and we see that to continue to [ph] do more (23:21).

That's a smart private label product that we have ourselves, we source ourselves and we see and enjoy larger margins on it. So that's a great point.

Okay. Thanks. Secondly would be on the inventory side. I mean you're currently at around $234 million, $235 million or so. I just want to see what your comfort level is with that and if we should expect that to be a continuous run rate. I understand there is some seasonality involved there, but I just want to understand what your comfort level is with your current inventory level?

Yeah. That's a good question. Quite frankly, I'm very comfortable in great inventory and one of the things that I'm sort of highly focused on in both businesses is, quite frankly, exceptional fill rates. Our fill rates today in Canada are at all-time highs. Our fill rates in the U.S. are exceptional.

And what we do – and we just talked about the margin enhancement, what we do is it because of our scale and size, we have opportunities to take special buys on fast-moving items with some of our core supplier partners, quite frankly, in both businesses, but primarily in the Finish business and we'll take positions in that. So you'll see our inventory rise, but we're very comfortable with the kind of region we're in right now. Again, what is absolutely core for us is those maintaining and growing our fill rates and that's kind of where we are today.

Okay. And a final one from me before I jump back into queue. [ph] I don't know I'm not (24:41) sure if I missed this in the MD&A, but have you provided what the sales were for the U.S. parts business that was divested in the quarter?

No, we have not provided that information. Maybe, yes, yes maybe we...

No, we did not. Total, I thought we supplied. I'm looking at the paint, I'm sorry. Yes, we have – if you look at the operating results, automotive products you have the sales that's closed or sold locations and...

Okay. So that is that number. Perfect.

That's what it is. Yeah.

That's okay. That's what we thought. Okay, perfect. Thank you so much.

I was looking at the paint side, obviously I was wrong. Things get a little clear next quarter as we don't have the U.S. side of the business – the U.S. Automotive Parts side of the business there so.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from [ph] Justin Woo (25:36). Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon. Just I have a question first on the corporate stores. It sounds like it's obviously a very meaningful shift in strategy. I was wondering if you can talk about whether this is something that you're going to be a little bit more aggressive on in terms of the rollout or conversions or you just kind of be opportunistic as jobbers retire or owners retire and you convert those stores?

Well, I think hopefully, you're getting the vibe from us that we're clearly going to be aggressive in the markets overall. We're aggressive when it comes to growing our business in both roles. I think the challenges in terms of corporate stores, you'll see it hit and miss, as I said earlier for acquisitions, which is our primary way of opening or having corporate stores.

You'll see that in a pattern that is not sort of consistent. We'll have sort of a diet of regular tuck-ins as they come up, and certainly, working at larger groups. But the reality for us is that we are aggressive in the marketplace looking at those groups. But like anything else, you would expect we're going to be very disciplined in our approach to making sure we pay the right price for the right properties. And we're not off, quite frankly, buying anything just to do it quickly, because we have some sort of capital availability to deploy. So I think you'll see a very disciplined approach where we're talking, we've got a great pipeline. Those assets will come in as soon as it's sensible to do so, but we are aggressively looking at those properties.

Okay. And can you guys comment, I mean generally, would it be safe to assume that the corporate store margin profile is better than the overall jobber markets?

So there's two levels of margin there. Obviously, the gross margin is higher than the operating store margin. And I can give you the example, corporate – or FinishMaster is all corporate stores as an example. Our U.S. Automotive network, their operating margin was, quite frankly, higher than our independent group margin. So I think that's a kind of arena where we're looking at going. So we're looking at profitable accretive distributors store groups today moving forward.

Okay. Great. And just my second question is on FinishMaster. I guess in the past you guys have talked about wanting to increase your market density and footprint in the U.S. And when you kind of look at the map of where you guys located, the Northwest looks like a screaming opportunity for you. Does that something you're looking at? Is that market different so than the rest of the U.S. for you that would make it less attractive or is that something that you would consider growing?

We are continuing to look at all the markets in the Northwest. It's definitely a market that's on our radar. We have entered that market through a greenfield [ph] timing (28:32) and are currently operating in that market.

Okay. And lastly, can you remind us Denis, if the – the vendor financing, like what that number is in the quarter? And I guess I'm assuming that was part of the U.S. Auto Parts business, if I'm correct?

Okay. You're correct. For example, okay. As part of the overall – first of all, it's part of the accounts payable, that's the reason why it's hidden there. But overall, we continue to have vendor financing for the Canadian operation auto parts, but also for FinishMaster. So the only portion that we will lose with the sales – with the disposition of the U.S. Auto Parts is, at first, it was close to $50 million and the remaining portion calls for $42 million, that's a portion that we will have to repay over the next three quarters. So that's mainly the – out of the $154 million, there is $42 million that will be repaid.

Okay. So that's all related to FinishMaster and the Canadian business?

No, no, no. Let me rephrase it again. I'm sorry. The $42 million is the portion related to the portion of the U.S. Automotive that we sold, okay? And the remaining $144 million – $154 million minus $42 million, so $112 million. The remaining portion is really added to the Canadian and the FinishMaster.

Okay. Got you. Okay. Great.

And this one we're going to continue to keep it.

Okay. Great. And I guess as a footnote, Richard, Denis, again I want to echo congratulations, it was very pleasure working with you guys over the years.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you, [indiscernible] (30:23).

Thank you. The next question is from Juliane Szeto. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. This is Juliane dialing in for Sara. It's been a pleasure working with you guys as well given my short career. So first of all, what drove organic growth in the quarter, for Automotive, was it mostly pricing, and for paint, was it volume? Additionally, is it a 5% organic – is the 5% organic growth range reasonable given consolidation in the consumer base?

Let's separate those two things. So FinishMaster, you're asking with the organic growth in the – because we're going to suggest it's a sort of 5% to 7% is the kind of the range we would see. And within that is organic growth is also price increases.

Yeah. There is price increase in there, but the main part of the growth is coming from new customer attraction.

Okay. And then, as for the own automotive side, it's pricing as well, right?

There is some pricing included in the organic growth on the automotive sector also, but also [indiscernible] (31:36).

Okay. And then my next question is with regard to the impairment charges this quarter. With relation to the U.S. business, going forward, can we expect leaner quarters?

The answer is, yes. We're pretty much where we expected to be when we first announced back in February. We announced a transaction. We said that we would be close to $100 million overall after tax and we're at – in the upper $90s million right now, $98 million if I'm not mistaken.

And just in terms of full disclosure for your information, the buyer has 60 days to close the balance sheet, and we're still waiting for the answer, so – but we're not expecting any major changes, but just if something happens, you may have some little change in the third quarter, fourth quarter, but for now, we're not expecting any changes to those costs.

Would be minimal anyway.

Yeah.

Okay, great. Could you comment on the normalized free cash flow for the remainder of the year, like your expectations for free cash flow?

We basically – you catch me here in talking about the remainder of the year, but [ph] actually you can sense that (32:57) like I can and we're really looking at $50 million annually, and if you look at what it's been for the first half of the year, that's the difference would be what we expect for the second half.

I will tell you that most of our cash flow will be from the operations rather than the working capital. There might be a little bit on the working capital, but in previous year, most of the cash flow that we freed from the working capital was originating from the operations that we have sold on June 1 this year. So both FinishMaster and Automotive Canada are in a steady state level. When it comes to working capital, we're very happy with their situation. As Henry explained a few moments ago, we're looking more at maintaining stellar fill rate for our customers, and we're pretty comfortable with that.

Good. And then finally, what are some consolidation priorities like you guys had mentioned that you guys were looking to giving a balance sheet position. Are there other certain areas that you're looking at?

Can you repeat the question, what consolidation opportunities we're looking at?

Like is there certain areas, areas you're looking for first like you said – will it be like FinishMaster or Automotive side, there is no preference?

Okay. So you're talking about market consolidation and acquisitions. So in that particular case, quite frankly, I've talked to a lot of people about this. I like both our kids the same way. And I do so for very good reason and Steve and Gary are pretty happy about that right now. And I think it's very simple. These are both great operating businesses and we are extremely fortunate there is a great runway in both of these businesses, both markets are consolidating today. We're seeing that in the automotive space in Canada. There is automotive jobbers, automotive warehouse distributors, they're considering their situations.

So there's consolidation in those components of the Canadian Automotive market. And you've already seen us do three acquisitions this year, in the paint distributor side of the U.S. market and that pipeline also continues to be very robust. So I think we're in a very enviable position to be able to have two businesses in leading market positions in our markets that are actually continuing to consolidate, and quite frankly, accelerating that consolidation with both have strong pipeline. So we love both our kids the same way, and I think we're going to continue to invest in that same direction.

Thank you. That's it for me.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen and congrats on the excellent results.

Thank you, Tony.

Could you give us a bit of color, Richard, in terms of the Canadian Automotive aftermarket, if we look at on a regional basis, could you tell us a bit your performance in Alberta, Western Canada and have you seen any change in consumer behavior there or your jobbers?

Maybe the best person to answer that question is my friend, Gary.

Hi Anthony. There's no doubt that the Prairies have been affected with the price of oil and the oil patch. We're holding our own, but it's not what it was last couple of years for sure. So I mean we're [ph] riding it up (36:24), but obviously, the other regions are still [indiscernible] (36:26) we've seen some nice growth across Canada to really compensate for what's happened in the Prairies, but there's nothing dramatic, but it is softened up.

I think just to add there, the first quarter, we saw some weakness, quite frankly, there were off from the Prairies. The second quarter, we're actually pretty happy, because they came in about flat. So flat in Alberta, in the Prairie market, quite frankly, little softer – if you breakdown the Prairies, little softer in Alberta than it is in the other components of the Prairies. But in the Prairie Group, we're pretty pleased with the flat results given what's going on.

I guess in the end with this weakness, people should retain their cars for a longer period of time and put more parts in right?

That would be expected, yes.

Yeah. Could you give us a bit of color in terms of the competitive landscape in Ontario and Quebec?

I would tell you overall, it's [ph] quite down a lot of here (37:18). I think people right now are focusing more on sales and margin, and I thought it was competitive, but we've seen it in the worse state in the last couple of years, I would say that we're seeing right now.

Okay. Henry, you mentioned that you're opening up a new [ph] World's (37:35) distribution facility in Ontario, geared to private label. Could you give us an idea of what the private label is today in terms of percentage and where do you expect this number will go forward?

Yeah, I'll give this one to Gary too, because we've opened that up and it's a DC, so.

Okay.

So yeah, so, basically, products we're importing and it varies from rollers and brake pads to gloves. It's a variety of products, and right now, I believe that's around 8% our private label offering and it's going to grow, but will never be a big part of our portfolio. We're committed to national brands and that's what we're going to focus on, but we're going to be looking at opportunities from [indiscernible] (38:14) improve our margins and sales opportunities.

If I may, Tony, we've been adding private label product to our product offering where really market conditions warranted that and that's really the way we've been managing that.

Yeah, I mean our Worldparts braking program fits a niche in the market a very big component of the market, and we've got sort of a very good quality product that enters that. So we're going to continue to drive that. As Gary says, we'll look at others. But it's not going to – we're still very committed to our national suppliers. So it doesn't replace it. It's a complementary product to it. So I think that's kind of where we're heading, and as Gary says, we're circa sort of sub-10 today. It will continue to grow up, because it's good margins, but it's not going to be the dominant component of our sales growth.

Okay. Thank you very much and best wishes, lot of success, Richard and Denis. Thank you.

Thank you very much, Tony. I really appreciate that.

Thank you. The next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

Have a few different questions here. Can you just clarify, Denis, I think you said in the opening remarks that for Q2 the EBITDA margin would have been 2% higher than reported, is that correct?

Okay. Assuming that, let's say that if you remove the impact of the U.S. operation for the quarter last year and for the quarter this year, you're perfectly right, the margin would have been 2% higher.

And would you happen to be able to provide something for the year-to-date on that?

Same thing. Yeah, the same 2%.

Okay. And then just in terms of the FinishMaster revenue, how does the seasonality, like our second half revenues typically the same as first half revenues or is there any – is there back half seasonality there?

Sure. In the business there's really no seasonality quarter-to-quarter, half-to-half.

The seasonality is in the Automotive business.

Okay. So it's pretty stable then. Did you guys break out the organic growth for Canada specific?

No. It did not, but it's going to be easier to see next quarter.

Okay. So you don't have the number this quarter.

Well, basically, if you look at the way we have reported sales and we have backed out the closed out and the sold operations and all of that, the 3% that we're reporting is mainly Canadian thing.

Yeah. When you look at the...

The MD&A.

...the geographic information, you can get it there.

Okay. The pro forma tax rate going forward, you previously quantified that at 35%, does that still stand?

33% to 35% is really the right number on an annual basis. This quarter was very, very unusual. As you know, we were half pregnant with the U.S. operations, for two months out of three months. So we continue to have the double dip structure that we used to have which won't be the case going forward, and also, we had a couple of what I can say, I call that a good guy good reversal of...

One-timers.

One-timers for the quarter, so but I stick to the 33%, 35% on an annual basis.

Okay. And you've some – can you clarify the amounts available for tax loss carryforwards in the next few years?

If I recall it correctly, it's $42 million – $42 million, $44 million.

The amount of net losses, but the amount of tax that will be sheltered by the tax losses is in the $40 million range.

I think it's $44 million. It's already [ph] booked in the notes (42:12) financial statement, but we can – let me look at it.

Okay.

Go ahead with your next question, and we'll look at it.

Okay. And – but whatever the number is, that would be equal in 2016 and 2017, say, in terms of capturing that?

We believe that we're going to be able to use it in the next 30 months.

30 months, okay. And the CapEx for the pro forma entity, was that in the $15 million range?

Yeah, 1-5, $15 million.

$15 million?

Yeah.

Okay. That's pretty much off for me. Thanks for the help you guys are giving me over the past few years, and all the best.

Thank you.

You are very welcome.

Thank you. Your next question is from [ph] Jeff Graham (42:56). Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, just wanted to follow-up on previous caller's question about what the margins would have been in the Auto business without the U.S. business. So in the quarter, in second quarter, the adjusted EBITDA margins were 5.5%. Are you saying that it would have been 7.5% or would there have been an effect on the previous year as well?

What I mentioned is the 2% as I mentioned, so any number that you have last year, as we reported last year, if you exclude the U.S. operation, we would have had 2% more than what we disclosed last year, even for the second quarter or the year-to-date, okay? And that is applicable also to the 2016. So the same 2% is for the quarter, for the year-to-date on a consolidated basis.

Okay. Thank you. That's all I had.

The consolidated EBITDA.

Yeah.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Just to come back on the private label initiative, are you still talking about what you've been talking about in the past, so really the introduction of a new line in the middle of the range?

I apologize for that. I guess we're repeating ourselves, but you're right, it's the midgrade products...

Midgrade, exactly.

...in the Canadian market that we have been introducing and that's why what I was saying is that, we've been focusing on the products that the market conditions requested for us, and that was the midgrade quality on the Automotive segment.

Okay. Perfect. That's great. Okay. And now, in terms of vendor financing, you've been pretty good in the past in maximizing the utilization. It seems also that it impacted positively your paint margin. So I'm just wondering what was the contribution in the quarter and whether you can extract more vendor financing going forward?

The vendor financing does not affect the margin of EBITDA or the gross margin. The vendor financing, ultimately, affects the return on assets, because it reduces the assets, the net assets that we're using in the business.

In a nutshell, it's an extension, a better payment terms that's all.

Okay. Okay. Right now, there are opportunity to even squeeze more going forward or you're already at a decent level?

Okay. Once again, what we have to be careful, don't forget that we're going to have to repay $42 million payout that's as of June. So to go back to the current level, I don't think it's realistic to assume that. Okay.

No, okay, okay.

But probably we'd capture in the next 12 months, 15 months, half of it that could be possible, but once again, I'm sure [ph] nothing (45:57) will be very pleased to try to do it with the treasury department.

We're always working on. You got to know that, that's obviously part of our strategy.

Yeah. Okay. And last question any update on the CFO search?

Yes.

Yeah. For the moment, yeah, there is the CFO search going on for the moment. There is nothing for us to announce actually as well, Henry?

So at this point in time, we're absolutely conducting a process and that's a comprehensive process as you would expect us to do, that's our responsibility. So we're not quite frankly panic. We're in very good shape here today, and we're very good and very comfortable with the team we have. Martin Labrecque is our Vice President of Finance and Controller. He's going to be our finance lead here anyways and he's been with us for 27 years.

So he is setting up this table as we speak and has been for every one of these calls. So I think you should feel comfortable that we're in great hands already, Denis and Martin worked together for many years. So I think that's the primary event. And we'll take our time to make sure we have the right combination structure folks that come in there. So we are running that process today.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks again.

Thank you. The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Yeah. Most of my questions were asked. Just one final one, I guess since I have the line is what's your expectation for depreciation and amortization as a run rate going forward?

Good question. If I recall it correctly, and once again, technically, our goal – I think that's the best way to look at it. Our goal is really to CapEx will eventually equal to the depreciation. So that should be the same amount year-after-year. So when you remove the assets and you remove the depreciation of the U.S. operations, we mentioned $15 million technically of CapEx, technically, we will reach $15 million of deprecation, that's the kind of logic we have.

Sounds good. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back over to you Mr. Buckley.

Thank you very much, Sara. First of all, I want to take this time to thank, Richard for his very, very significant contributions over his 17 years with Uni-Select. I've had the chance to work with Richard over the last, I guess, 10 months now, since exactly September 8 last year and we've been able to work very closely together, and I consider him today a very good friend and a trusted advisor. So I'm looking forward to continuing to work with Richard as he takes on his role on the board. So very excited about that, and just again, thank you and congratulations on your retirement.

Thank you. You're welcome.

Also like to take this opportunity to thank, Denis. Denis has made countless contributions to this organization, and as all of you well know, he's been a great advocate in terms of the organization, very transparent, very helpful in terms of building the business, growing the business and also I know certainly from talking to a lot of you, you've had some great relations with him as well. So I wanted to thank Denis for his terrific contributions to the business and truly appreciate and wish him the very best of success in the future.

Thank you Henry.

I think I'd want to just sort of reiterate what we've talked about a minute ago, the finance in this organization is in very, very good hands. Again Denis has built an amazing team and that's a reflection on leadership right there. Nobody can be a standalone, great financial leadership here, Martin Labrecque again, 27 years with the organization as in various roles in the finance group, but for many years now, as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller. So I'm pleased to continue to work with Martin and make sure that he is also here for you in terms of any questions you may have subsequent to this call.

So again, thank you very much everyone. We've had a strong quarter. Our commitment is to accelerate profitable growth in the ensuing quarters. I'll look forward to speaking to you all again in October.

So thank you very much and have a great balance of your day.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time and thanks for your participation.