Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Secretary & Chief Legal Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Éric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Elizabeth Johnston — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Thank you for standing by, your meeting is ready to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the 2016 First Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Louis Juneau. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Julian. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Uni-Select' 2016 first quarter financial results conference call.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our latest Annual Report available on SEDAR as well as in the press release issued yesterday.

Joining me in Boucherville this morning are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; Eric Bussières, CFO; Steve Arndt, President and COO FinishMaster; Gary O'Connor, President and COO Automotive Canada.

I will first turn the call over to Henry, who will discuss the key highlights of the last quarter. Eric will then discuss a few important financial elements for Q1. After their presentation, we will open up the call to questions. Over to you, Henry?

Thank you, Louis, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I want to begin my remarks today by expressing how pleased I am with our overall performance in Q1 and delighted to see both our businesses deliver healthy growth.

Excluding the sales from the sold operations on June 1, 2015, our consolidated sales for the quarter grew 10.8%, led by our FinishMaster paint and related product segment and up 17.3%. On a consolidated organic basis, we achieved growth of 3.2%, driven by 4.2% at FinishMaster, and 1.5% growth through Automotive Canada. Our EBITDA margin reached 8.2%, up 350 basis points, from our adjusted EBITDA last year. Earnings grew to $11.5 million, up a robust 14.5% from our adjusted earnings last year.

And finally, earnings per share reached $0.53 versus adjusted earnings of $0.47 last year, that's up 12.8%. Our teams are highly focused on executing our plan, and our plan is simple, it's accelerating profitable growth, which means the balance of organic and acquisitive growth, effectively integrating our acquisitions and building the best team in the business. We made very good progress on all these fronts in the first quarter, despite headwinds related to the Canadian dollar currency, and the economic slowdown in the Canadian Prairies.

Over the course of the first quarter, FinishMaster achieved balanced growth, by continuing to focus on adding new customers, in both our traditional and our MSO customer segments, combined with acquiring strong performing companies in alignment with our growth strategy.

We have continued to evolve our organization to better service customers. Our regional sales teams are laser focused on delivering exceptional customer service be they large MSO operations or our traditional collision repair customers. Our goal is accelerating profitable growth, by ensuring we have the best team, delivering the best service.

In terms of acquisitions, we continue to add key companies to our family to build density in larger important markets, as well as building out our geographical coverage of the USA. We welcome all of our new team members, and learn from each of them, as they join our family.

Now acquisition integration is a key part of our strategy, and we are extremely focused on ensuring we have robust integration processes for all our new customers and team members. Equally, we are ensuring, we are delivering on our planned synergies.

In Canada, we continue to reinforce our customer centric value proposition as part of our commitment to build a strong unified and synergistic brand across Canada, we announced in March the launch of our reimaged full marketing brand Bumper to Bumper.

Today we have more than 113 independent jobber locations already branded under the popular name in the Canadian Prairies. We are refreshing and re-launching this brand nationally adding independent jobbers across Canada, as well as converting all of our 48 corporate stores. More than ever before, we are sending a strong message that we are Canada's parts people.

We continue to support the balance of our independent customers with our current menu driven Auto Parts Plus brand across Canada. These two brands in Canada allow us to serve our customers the way they want. A truly national full marketing brand with Bumper to Bumper and an Auto Parts Plus brand to service independent customers choosing a menu-driven approach.

In Canada, we achieved solid organic growth at 1.5% despite challenging economic conditions. If you excluded the Prairies, which is impacted by the oil and gas market slowdown, organic sales in the balance of Canada grew at an impressive 5.3%. We are making very good progress. In addition, we are steadily building the foundation of our corporate store group, and now operate 48 stores nationally.

Turning to acquisitions, we completed several strategic acquisitions in both businesses over the course of Q1 and shortly after the quarter end. In Canada we announced the acquisition of M.A.G. Auto Parts, a highly regarded one store jobber in Sherbrooke, Québec. Shortly after that we acquired Jean Talon Auto Parts and Gagnon Parts center, operating seven well known locations in the greater Montréal area.

In the U.S. we completed the acquisition announced last December of ColorMaster Automotive Paint, a regional leader in the automotive refinished business with activities in 15 locations across four states. In February, we completed acquisition of 80 year old market leader Johnson Michigan Automotive & Industrial Coatings thereby strengthening our footprint in Eastern Michigan and Central Michigan.

Shortly after quarter end, we announced the acquisition of Annex Group, operating nine locations in metropolitan areas in the states of Washington and California. We also acquired Lowell's PCE, a one store operator in Minnesota. We truly welcome these new talented team members to the Uni-Select family and we're thrilled to have them help us accelerate profitable growth.

Before I conclude my remarks and discuss our priorities and focus going forward, let me now turn the call over to Eric.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. Before anything, let me preempt my comment by mentioning that the results discussed on this call are compared with last year adjusted results, which included operation of Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, sold on June 1, 2015.

As you have certainly noticed, the lower Canadian dollar has continued to impact our results as presented in an important [ph] week (07:37), yet not operationally. In Q1 alone, the declining Canadian dollar penalized sales by $8.5 million or 3.6% at the consolidated level, which translated into a negative impact of 9.4% on the sell of the auto product segment.

You will also have noticed from analyzing our results, that our results performance was impacted by difference in a numbers of days of billing between Q1, 2016 and Q1, 2015. The additional billing date in Q1 this year had a positive comparative impact of $2.8 million.

We are pleased by the EBITDA margin of our two operating units. Our paint and related product and our automotive products with 12% and 5.1%, respectively.

Our account receivable increased by $13.6 million against last quarter, the third of this increase is attributable to the appreciation of the Canadian dollar, about a third is from the ongoing operation and the last third is from the various acquisition closed during the quarter.

Inventory increased by $7.4 million compared to last quarter and increase related to our business acquisition of $12.2 million, appreciation of the Canadian dollar by $8.9 million that was partly offset by our continuous optimization of our same-store operations.

Cash flow from operating activities was negative $8.5 million. However, this is an improvement of $11.1 million compared to the same period last year. Furthermore, this quarter like for the preceding two quarters, we had large payments under the vendor financing program for the sold operation. And this time, the amount was $11 million.

Accordingly, cash flow from ongoing operating activities before this payment was positive $2.5 million. We are now left with one financing program tied to the sold assets of $2.5 million, payment that will be done in our second quarter.

I would also like to point out that the free cash flow increased by 90% from $10.2 million last year to $19.4 million, due to the lower CapEx, lower interest and income tax paid as well as improved earnings.

Some of you will have noted that Uni-Select has been fairly active under our NCIB program during the first quarter. We purchased [ph] 2,210 (09:58) common shares during the quarter at an approximate average price of CAD 56.44 or equivalent to $42.31, for a total consideration of CAD 17.1 million or $12.8 million.

As you know, our share price has been fairly volatile during the quarter and we have taken the opportunity to purchase some shares as we felt the stock was undervalued. We are now increasing our revenue guidance and our EBITDA margin guidance as follows. At an average exchange rate of $0.75 to the U.S. dollar for the full year, we now expect sales to range between $1.175 billion and $1.2 billion. We are increasing our EBITDA margin guidance from 2016 from a range of 7.5% to 8.5% to a range of 7.75% to 8.75%. Our guidance on CapEx remain unchanged at $20 million.

As you are aware, we started providing guidance after the announcement of the disposition of Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, and we will continue to do so throughout 2016, but we'll no longer pursue this practice thereafter. As of March 31, our outstanding net debt stood at $79.5 million, cash mainly used for financing is series of accretive business acquisitions, payment under the vendor financing program and share buyback under the NCIB.

Our access to liquidity is very strong with $324 million in available credit facility. This puts Uni-Select in a very favorable position to actively seek and seize growth opportunity to build density in key markets, increase geographic coverage and build market shares.

This completes my financial review. Back to you, Henry.

Thank you, Eric. Let me conclude my remarks today by reaffirming our strong commitment to pursuing our profitable growth efforts both, organically and through accretive business acquisitions. This is our commitment to our shareholders and the number one objective pursed by each of our Uni-Select's 2,800 team members.

On this note, I'm extremely pleased to announce our board's decision to increase our quarterly dividend to a CAD 0.17 from CAD 0.16. This decision reflects the board's and management's ongoing commitment and the level of confidence in our future.

I'm also delighted to announce that our board has also approved a two-for-one stock split, effective May 6, 2016, and subject to customary completion and approval of regulatory filings with the TSX.

Turning to the second quarter of 2016, we will continue working towards building our leadership positions in both businesses. We are truly committed to further developing our customer-centric culture, facilitating the effective integration of our newly acquired companies. And, finally, building the best team in the business.

In closing, I wish to sincerely thank the entire Uni-Select team for their continued commitment, dedication and passion towards delivering the industry's best customer experiences.

We're now ready to answer your questions. Julian, could you please open the lines to questions?

Certainly. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys, and congratulations on a good quarter.

My first question is regarding the margins for the paint side. I mean, you mentioned that it was helped by strategic buying or as you say, improved buying conditions. And then, the FinishMaster's margins around 12%, I mean, were quite solid. So, just want to figure out kind of what happened there and if that number is sustainable or if there was anything unusually high in that quarter.

Yeah. Thanks, Leon. Good morning. You know, that's a question we get, I think, we've had that question pretty much every quarter. So given we have the question every quarter and we're posting results every quarter, this is just the way we operate quite frankly.

Our job is to make sure, we optimize both, the buy side and the sell side. So I'll tell you straight up, that we are doing that in both businesses, FinishMaster included. So we take advantage of any opportunities to optimize the buy-side, whether they'd be an advent of price increases, whether they just be day-to-day buying, negotiating with our vendor partners that's just really part of the DNA of our business. So there's nothing in our view anything exceptional there. In fact, I think we have talked about this every quarter through probably the last six or eight. Is that fair?

Okay. Yeah. That was fair enough. Moving onto the part side, I mean, you did mentioned here that there was enhanced volume on the private label side, which has helped margins. Where and what were some of the main private label initiatives currently and like what's the potential here for the private label side if that's really one of the reasons that it's pushing margins on the part side?

Well, I mean, the potential is somewhat limited because, we are an actual brand house and we want to continue that strategy. But having said that, there are strategic product opportunities that we're pursuing and really trying to help our customers buy into these strategy. So, slowly as they move over these product opportunities that we are presenting them, obviously, our margin will be probably impacted. So, it's somewhat limited, but it's something we're focusing on.

Yeah. And I would just add that we're doing that quite frankly in both businesses. We have a very good private brand portfolio at the FinishMaster, we have a good one in Canada. And I think they're both, I would say complementary. Because both businesses are focused on supporting the national brand, so it's a very good complementary program for both businesses.

Okay. If I can, one final one for me before I turn it over, you know, would be on the acquisitions, right? I mean, we see that you made obviously five acquisitions in the quarter adding around 26 locations or so. You paid around $50 million or so in the quarter for that, but we do the subsequent events, where you do complete two more acquisitions for, I think combined roughly 10 locations, but you did pay a purchase price of roughly $57 million. So, just trying to understand what went on there [ph] that occurred (16:37) different types of circumstances there, different margins. I know you don't normally provide a lot of information on in terms of the acquisition and in terms of multiples, but a bit more color here please?

I think the message is going to be there exactly the same, Leon. We don't disclose the individual transactions. We have competitors out there, who would love to know what we're up to and we're just not going do that. But what I can tell you is that that we've committed to everybody and we've stated all along that we're acquiring companies that, FinishMaster as an example, in the range of six times to nine times EBITDA pre-synergy and we have not gone outside of that range.

And certainly discussed it if that happens, but that has not happened so far. So, I think you can take from that [ph] effect is (17:19) we are continuing to be disciplined in terms of the acquisitions we're making. We're disciplined in terms of the values we're paying for them and our cash dispositions will reflect that sort of performance.

Okay. Was one of them unusually high in terms of the revenue or in terms of the EBITDA, or am I just maybe misunderstanding the side here? That, I mean, it seems to me like it's quite a high purchase price for like 10 locations?

Again, you can't go by our locations and this is a discussion that we've had in numerous cases, because people have tried to peg an average sales value for individual locations and it'll vary all over the map. You get a small automotive jobbers and we can have $10 million-plus locations in either side of the business.

So, having a correlation between the number of locations and the size of the business, you're going to struggle with that. I think I would go back to the values we're paying, we're very, very pleased with our approach in terms of what we pay, the margins or the ranges we're paying within the EBITDA margin and we're not looking at this on a per store sales basis. We're very happy. In fact the less stores they have sometimes a less complicated it is and [ph] more (18:35) throughput in individual stores and it really depends on the market, we're operating in. So, clearly, if you looked at the individual acquisitions, we had one multi-store, one. And then, a single one out in Minnesota, so they're two different businesses.

Thank you. That's very helpful.

Yeah. You bet. Thanks, Leon.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning, Sara.

Can you comment on your Canadian strategy for corporate stores or what's left to do in-house in terms of forming your team and are there any investments that are needed for that strategy?

Yeah. That's something that we've talked about over the coming quarters. We're not sort of running hard to acquire every store we can get our hands on right now. We've said, we're going to take this at a sort of very measured pace, because like our business in the U.S. at FinishMaster, it's critical that we're able to integrate those ones successfully into our network.

Given Canada, we've said this is a very much a transformational strategy for us. In other words, we have been supporting independent jobbers from the outside of this organization and we have moved to a strategy where we're going to have a second lane on the highway as I've discussed, which is really the opportunity to have corporate stores across Canada. We're not shifting lanes in the sense that we are closing the first lane with independent jobbers. We're just adding this opportunity for us to have corporate stores across Canada.

So being that as a strategy, we're starting to roll some of our opportunities into that lane, into the Corporate Store Group, but we're in the process of building out robust integration processes. And I'll tell you, there's easy things to do, that we can do a little bit quicker, which is integrating the back office and getting the product synergies and we're working on those immediately.

The stuff that that we'd like to do, but we're taking a measured pace at is putting in the sort of JMS or Jobber Management System or point-of-sale system into each of those stores. We're in the process right now of evaluating point-of-sales systems and that will be a fairly significant next step in our progression towards integrating those stores.

But we're not going to be running down that road or making decisions for the long-term, so we're operating those stores as they are, integrating everything we can, but we're making very good progress in terms of getting out to those synergies.

Okay. And then, maybe just on the jobber side, how's the recruitment process going year-to-date in terms of getting new jobbers to join the Uni-Select brand?

I will tell you probably it's been a little slower this year than the previous years, I think there's not a lot of activity going on. We've added a few, but it's been somewhat slow [indiscernible] (12:26), Sara.

Okay. Are you losing any?

No.

No.

Okay. And then, on FinishMaster, just wondered if you could comment on the mix of MSO customers and the likelihood – like the likely rate of growth and just if that's expected to have some kind of margin pressure over the longer term?

Hey, Sara. This is Steve. The MSO segment continues to grow within FinishMaster. And we see a slowing of that over the next 18 months as the consolidation there slows down, but we're still going to be active, very active in that. It is a large portion of our growth right now. The most important part of our growth comes from all the segments. So, the traditional, as well as the MSO and very active in both of those segments right now.

Okay.

Sara, we've talked about the FinishMaster business growing at mid-singles, in the [ph] 4 to 6 (22:29) range and we're in that range right now, which is terrific and we're very pleased with that because it's the mixed growth. The MSO strategy continues, as Steve said. But if you go back to sort of 18 months ago, we had a very big quarter or two in the organic side and that was driven by the MSO market consolidating themselves.

So, we added a lot more individual MSOs and that accrued to the organic growth. So, as Steve said, that's slowed off a little bit, probably stabilized, quite frankly, more than slowed off, it's more normal pace. We're happy to take those spikes any time we can get them, but this is probably a more normal pace of MSO. Would you agree, Steve?

I definitely agree with that. We're on a level right now with growth of that segment.

Okay, great. And then just lastly on the Canadian margin, just wondered how we should think about a 5% range margin EBITDA. Is that Prairies related, is it seasonally related. How should we think about how that, kind of, ramps through the year?

Well, look, as we've said numerous time, our Q4 and Q1 are typically our slowest quarter and especially true on the Canadian side, so we would expect Q2, Q3 from a revenue and margin standpoint to be higher than that and it's been the behavior of that business for a number of years. So our view is, Q2 and Q3 should show some interesting progress and Q4, because it's a seasonal business, so we'll have a slower quarter.

And is it – like are the Prairies impacting the margin or is it just a sales impact you're seeing?

They're impacting both, Sara. Prairies is an important market for us from a revenue standpoint and also from a margin standpoint, it is a market that – margin tends to be little bit higher than the average national so, definitely on both side.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Sara.

Thank you. The next question is from Elizabeth Johnston. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Morning, Elizabeth.

Just in terms of your updated guidance for consolidated EBITDA, you've indicated 7.75% to 8.75% range, can you give any insight as to the segment you see driving this improvement or are they coming from both segments overall?

Well, we expect both segments to be able to achieve those type of results on a consolidated basis. So, I think the answer for us is, we should see some improvements on both sides of the business throughout the year.

I think we just talked about the seasonality, so I think both of them, and particularly the Canadian business is affected by that in the, sort of, Q4 and Q1.

Okay. Great. And just looking at the operating expenses and the impact of the negative synergies from the ERP system, do you expect that these costs will continue through the balance for 2016 or is it more front-end loaded, any additional color there would be helpful?

Yeah. Well, as we've indicated before, following the disposition of the USA operations, we are left with about $4.3 million of negative synergies. We will be working extremely hard over the coming months and years, because this is not going to go away anytime soon.

So there's two ways that we are tackling those costs. The actually structural cost by changing the composition of the services we're getting or buying our own solutions in some cases, and the other part is obviously volume growth will help absorb those additional costs.

So, over a period of time we have not stated and we can't give you guidance as to how long those costs will be in the business, and at corporate, but the reality is those costs are real, and it's not a one-time cost.

Okay. Great. And just turning, going back to Canada and you've talked a bit about the Prairies already and the headwinds you're seeing there, do you have any strategy in place for this region in terms of supporting growth or maintaining growth there?

Our view is very simple, it's still a long-term play, I mean, we've had some amazing years in the Prairies and we're still very happy with the business out there. Quite frankly, we were up – at the end of last year, I think we were up [ph] 6.7 (26:41), call it. That's pretty darn good in terms of what's been happening out in the Prairies and we expect that softness to continue, but [ph] vis-à-vis (26:49) some other areas, industrial market, those guys are up very significant double-digits.

So we're pretty pleased with our progress out there and we're going to manage through the economic situation and we're investing in this business for the long run. So, yeah, we'll mitigate any of the costs you would normally expect to do, variable cost such as labor will adjust accordingly, but we're very committed to this key market for us long-term.

Okay. Great. That's all from me. Thank you.

Thanks, Elizabeth.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Jonathan Lamers. Please go ahead.

For the revised guidance, I saw you're assuming a CAD/USD rate of $0.75. What FX rate were you assuming in the previous guidance?

Right around $0.735 as I recall Jonathan. I would have to double check, but it's in that range.

Okay. Thank you. And can you quantify the impact of the lower share-based compensation year-over-year?

Well let me first say that I'm very pleased the board of directors has approved the policy, so that we can mitigate some of the volatility associated with the share price on our DSU and PSU program. And in the coming months, we will start putting a program in place to mitigate some of that volatility.

The impact against Q4 to Q1 was about $900,000 positive to our results in the quarter. And as you may recall Q4 was particularly punitive for us from a P&L standpoint. So, we will start with the DSU program and eventually start doing some volatility, I would say, protection on the PSU over time.

Okay. And in the U.S. Paints business, can you tell us how many months of inventory you have remaining at the strategic purchase prices?

No, we don't disclose that information, Jonathan.

We're very, very happy with our turn level in the business. We're very happy with the supplier dating terms we get. So we're very, very disciplined in terms of how we do that. So, we're not worried about – that's just in terms of how we operate that business, it's ongoing, as I said earlier. We continually optimize our buy side and we'll continue to do that and take advantage of any opportunities we see. But all within a range of discipline where we don't get ourselves stretched out. So, our turn rate is very good.

Okay. Do you have any indications from the manufacturers of further price increases later this year?

Jonathan, this is Steve. Price increases will continue this year. They've indicated that – in the same time frames as the past several years that we'll have price increases.

Yeah. They don't come out once a year, one specific time of the year, like every June or every May, they come out at various times, by various manufacturers.

Okay. So, last year, there was an impact reflected in the results in Q2, would that be seasonally normal timing for price increases?

For us on the manufactured, yes.

Okay. And last question, in the Canadian business, I believe you noted in the disclosure that the private label products benefited sales year-over-year. Can you tell us how much of Canadian sales, private label products now represent? I believe in the past you indicated, kind of, 8% to 9% of Canadian sales.

Well, that's about it. It hasn't really grown much from there, 8% to 9% is probably good number.

Okay. Thanks.

Thanks, Jon.

Thank you. We do not have any further questions registered at this time. I will turn the meeting back over to Mr. Buckley.

All right. Thanks, everyone. I want to thank everyone who joined us this afternoon. And we'll look forward to speaking to you in July. And have a great rest of your day. Thanks, everyone.

Thank you everyone.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. And we thank you all for your participation.