Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Secretary & Chief Legal Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Éric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor, MBA — President and Chief Operating Officer, Automotive Canada
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Benoît Poirier, CFA — Analyst, Desjardins Securities
Sara O'Brien, CA, CFA — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Macquarie Research
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, please standby, your conference is now ready to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the 2016 Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Louis Juneau, Chief Legal Officer. Please go ahead, Mr. Juneau.

Thank you, Paul. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Presenting this morning are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; and Éric Bussières, CFO. Following their comments, we will open the call for questions. Joining us today for your questions are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster, U.S.A.; and Gary O'Connor, President and COO of Automotive Canada.

Please note that all documents referred to in today's conference call including this webcast presentation can be found on our website, uniselect.com in the Investors section.

As noted on slide 2, I would like to remind you that a caution regarding forward-looking statements apply to our presentation and comments. All amounts are expressed in U.S. dollar except otherwise specified. I would also like to underline that our 2016 results discussed on this call are compared to last year's comparable results, which include five months operation of Uni-Sélect USA, Inc., and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, Inc., sold on June 1, 2015.

With that, let me turn the presentation over to Henry.

Thanks, Louis. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'd like to invite you to look at slide 3 of the document posted on our website for this call. In the fourth quarter of 2016, Uni-Sélect delivered very good overall results. Total sales reached $291 million, up 12% from last year, with FinishMaster USA up 18%, and the Canadian Automotive Group up 4%.

Adjusted EBITDA was up 27% to $25 million, while adjusted EBITDA margin rose to 8.7% for the quarter. Net earnings were $13 million or $0.30 per share, while our adjusted earnings increased 18% from a $11 million to $13 million, with related adjusted EPS at $0.31.

In the quarter, we added 16 stores through four acquisitions. One is FinishMaster USA and three in the Canadian Automotive Group. In addition, we opened a greenfield location in Portland, Oregon for our FinishMaster USA. We'll also pay a quarterly dividend of CAD 0.085 per share to our shareholders.

Now please turn to slide 4. 2016 key accomplishments. Now looking at 2016 as a whole we accomplished a tremendous amount as a team. Total sales of $1.2 billion, up 13% against last year. We acquired 14 businesses, seven at FinishMaster USA and seven for our Automotive Group in Canada, adding approximately $175 million in revenue to Uni-Sélect on an annualized basis.

At FinishMaster USA, we added 45 stores to the network through acquisitions, including one greenfield. We then integrated 12 stores for a total of 205 stores in the U.S. network at year-end.

At Canadian Automotive Group, we added 16 stores, 10 for BUMPER TO BUMPER, for a current total of 47. We also added six stores adding to an existing greenfield store for a total of seven FinishMaster locations in Canada.

In Canada it was truly a transformational year, as we set up the company for accelerating growth in the future. We launched a new BUMPER TO BUMPER automotive brand and program for both our independent customers and our corporate stores. We then launched the FinishMaster brand into Canada, adding a new runway for growth. Finally, this is all underpinned by the installation of people, processes and systems as a foundation to support our continued growth into the future.

Now please turn to slide 5. Current initiatives in the quarter. It was a solid quarter for FinishMaster USA a key objective of ours is to successfully integrate the acquired teams and businesses into the FinishMaster family. I am very pleased to report that we have integrated the vast majority of all of our acquisitions including the ones made since December – excluding the ones made since December. This is a huge accomplishment and helps us solidify not only acquisitions, but also integration capabilities as core competencies at FinishMaster.

As we noted last quarter, we continue to work through a product line changeover of one of our paint manufacturers. This is impacting our organic growth in the short-term. However, the underlying organic growth excluding the changeover would have been approximately 4.1% for the quarter.

We continue to have a robust acquisition pipeline as we focus on extending our coverage across the U.S. market. In addition, we have a number of organic growth initiatives, including building our industrial paint business nationally. We have a very robust plan, and we are currently launching in markets across the U.S.

Turning to Automotive Canada in the quarter we delivered positive organic sales of plus 1%. The good news has been the stabilization of the Prairies at the end of the quarter. However, sales in Eastern Canada have been a bit choppy. On the good news side, our corporate store network is performing well.

Our focus has been to build the foundation for growth now and in the longer run. This has included the ongoing rollout of the BUMPER TO BUMPER brand and program across Canada. We are very pleased with the adoption of this program with our independent customers. On the corporate store front, we have been very hard at work installing the best people, processes and systems to solidify that foundation. We're very proud of the progress we're making in all those areas.

Finally, in Canada in the fourth quarter, we acquired Vancouver Autocolor and Guelph Paint and Bumper, which added four stores to our newly launched FinishMaster brand in Canada. We are very excited about the opportunity to extend this brand across Canada. In the case of both our Auto Parts and FinishMaster groups in Canada, we have a strong acquisition pipeline in each.

Now, before I conclude my remarks and discuss our priorities and focus going forward, let me turn the call over to our CFO, Éric.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. And I invite you to turn to slide 6. Consolidated sales for the fourth quarter reached $291 million, a 12% increase against fourth quarter of 2015. This increase is mainly driven from business acquisition and was somewhat impacted by the decrease of 1.1% of our organic sales.

Canada reported positive organic sales of 1% and FinishMaster USA, excluding the product line changeover, generated a positive organic growth of approximately 4.1%, net of the product line change over negative 2.5%. Sales from FinishMaster USA reached almost $181 million, up 18% against prior year fourth quarter, and down 12% against the third quarter due to seasonality and a larger impact from the line of changeover started in Q3.

The Canadian Automotive segment rose to $110 million, an increase of 4% mainly from the various business acquisitions and positive organic growth. As mentioned before, Q1 and Q4 are our softer quarter and this quarter was no different and was impacted by a sales decrease of 5% against the third quarter.

Turning to slide 7, our fourth quarter adjusted EBTIDA was $25 million compared to $20 million last year, an increase of over 26%, driven mainly by the incremental contribution from FinishMaster USA. The adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter improved from 7.7% last year to 8.7%, an improvement of 100 basis points.

For 2016, the adjusted EBITDA totaled $108 million for an adjusted EBITDA margin of 9%, an improvement of 190 basis points.

Please turn now to slide 8, adjusted earnings for the fourth quarter were $13 million or $0.21 of a share compared to $0.26 a share for the same period last year or a 19% increase. The blended tax rate for Q4 was 30% compared to 32% the previous quarter. The decrease is due to the profitability from Automotive Canada representing a high proportion on the overall pre-tax income compared to Q3.

Moving to slide 9, the fourth quarter sales were up 12% compared to same period last year, coming mainly from the acquisitions, which were probably offset by negative organic growth. For 2016, the total sales were up 13% compared to same period last year. EBITDA was enhanced by accretive business acquisition, optimization of our buying conditions, lower stock base compensation expense, and partly offset by an increase in our other operating expenses. Other operating expenses for the same period last year benefited from a net gain following the purchase of our remaining interest in joint ventures.

Please turn now to slide 10. For the fourth quarter, cash flow from operating activities totaled $55 million. A $72 million improvement compared to Q4 last year. Cash flow from operating activities was used to reimburse a portion of our credit facility, fund for acquisition, customer investments and capital expenditure. We are extremely pleased with our 2016 cash flow from operating activities that stand at $137 million compared to $19 million last year.

Please turn now to slide 11. As of December 31, outstanding total net debt stood at $112 million from $134 million at the end of last quarter, this was a reduction of $22 million from a leverage ratio of total debt to EBITDA of 1.04 time. Access to liquidity is robust with over $280 million in available credit facilities.

To summarize the quarter, I invite you to turn to slide 12. Uni-Sélect had a good fourth quarter driven by accretive business acquisition, good sales and improved EBITDA margins. The adjusted EBITDA margins for the quarter reached 8.7%, a 100-basis point improvement from last year comparable EBITDA.

Cash flow from operating activities were strong at $55 million, a $72 million improvement compared to the same period last year. Adjusted net earning rose to $13 million or $0.31 per share, this represented 19% increase from the same period last year. And quarterly dividends payment of CAD 0.085 per shares. We are in a strong financial position to actively seek and cease growth opportunities.

This complete my financial review. Back to you, Henry.

Great. Thanks, Éric. So, very simply guys, our game plan has not changed. At FinishMaster USA, we will continue to focus on profitable growth through the combination of organic and acquisitive initiatives. This means acquiring and successfully integrating businesses to extend our geographic coverage as well as building density in key markets. We did adjust – we did just add a gain in January this year as we acquired three businesses, the latest being D'Angelo & Sons in the Western U.S., which is our largest vision FinishMaster acquisition to date.

Our goal is to continue this March by providing better services to more customers across the U.S. At Automotive Canada, we're highly committed to building BUMPER TO BUMPER and INISHMASTER into leading brands in our space. We are making great progress, our focus on people, processes and systems is truly building that solid footing for continued profitable growth. We have a robust acquisition pipeline and a host of organic growth opportunities and we are relentlessly focusing on execution.

Now finally, I would like to thank all our Uni-Sélect team members, our customers, our supplier partners and our shareholders for their past and continued support.

And now, we would like to open the call for questions. Over to you, Bob.

Thank you very much. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Tony.

Henry, can we have more color on the organic growth in Canada, like what do you see impacting the markets particularly in Ontario and Québec?

Yeah. Maybe I'll just direct that question to our friend, Gary, and give us some color in – color on Canada.

Hi, Tony.

Hi.

Tony, it's hard to say obviously, but there is no doubt that talking to various members of our automotive community that Québec and Ontario have been soft basically most of the year, it's hard for us to figure out.

But having said that, we see our corporate stores doing very well, over and above that. So we're just going to write it out and we're looking for obviously for our new customers to join our network. But it's just been a softer period right now, and on the flip side, the Prairies are, slowly coming out of their [indiscernible] (14:23), so that's very encouraging and it's a large region for us. So, it's choppy as Henry said various parts of country over a period of time.

Yeah. I think we have some independent job that are doing extremely well on both markets. So, it's not like the markets [indiscernible] (14:40) not only soft, we just got some markets within the East, where independent jobs are doing really well, and others that they are the softer.

Okay. And on the margin side in Canada, can you quantify the impact on items pressuring margins? And is it expected to continue given investments that we're putting in, in corporate store development initiatives and the new POS system implementation?

Yes. So, we'll do both here. I'll give some background initiatives there, Éric going to give you some – some more color. We're building this business for the long run, so we've said right at the outset that Canada, we're going to transform this business with the combination of corporate stores and independent customers, which we love both. We're making sure that we put the foundation into growing the future for both of those customer that, that's why the investment in the BUMPER TO BUMPER brand and launch, which is going extremely well for us, with independent customers as well as the corporate stores is an investment.

In the corporate store side putting in that point-of-sale system as you noted, is absolutely critical for us to be able to capture synergies moving forward. So we're eyes wide open. We are not building this business for the quarter. We are building this business for the longer-term. And we're extraordinarily happy with the progress we are making on that front, but we will have those investments. So maybe, Éric, maybe just throw a light on that.

Sure. Look Toni, as Henry pointed out, we'll continue to invest in the gain business with the store roll-up that we're doing. Obviously, we need a common system and we are deploying this system in 2017. So those investments will continue to happen. And that's how we're going to get the real benefits over time in order to manage our inventory, optimize our operations and so forth. So what do we expect for 2017, I would say similar margins than what we've seen in 2016 just because we are continuing to make those investments.

Okay. And the impact from the product line change over on organic growth. When do you expect this to lapse?

Maybe I'll drag that question to Steve just to give some color on that.

Hey. Good morning, Tony.

Good morning.

So on a comparable basis, we expect this thing to go to third quarter of this year. It's not a single event that happens at one point of time, and so we see the effect till the third quarter of 2017.

Okay. And, Henry, last question. There has been a number of articles in Wall Street Journal, Barron talking about potential market disruption by Amazon. Do you see that this is a threat in the Canadian aftermarket, and what about Uni-Sélect's U.S. paint business? I guess paint doesn't travel so well, but if you can give us some sense like to being appreciate?

Yeah. Paint is probably a little less of their folks at this point for a lot of obvious reasons. So listen, nobody can sit here in today's world and say, Amazon is not a threat to a distribution business. I think, absolutely it's a threat to the industry, it's another competitor. But like anything else, we're making sure we build our value proposition, our offer very, very strong in terms of being able to compete today and in the future markets tomorrow.

I think the first people are going to be impacted by that, obviously, are those folks that are doing retail. Given the retail space and I look at some of the – our competitors, our friends in the U.S. in – some of the auto sectors down there, they do compete in retail. I think they are probably going to be the most affected initially.

We've got a great value proposition that already keeps us very, very close and delivers on a highly frequent basis to all of those installer shops in Canada, and that's something that is really, truly hard to replace the value we add there, and that's not impossible in the future who knows. So, I'm not suggesting that, but right now I think we are not focused on them, we are focused on adding more value to those customers today.

Okay. Well, thank you very much.

Thanks Tony.

Thank you. The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Leon.

Just wanted to follow-up on Tony's question on the product change over. You just mentioned that we're going to see the effects till Q3. Can you talk to us a little bit about the mechanics there; I mean we just saw first kind of full quarter of that impact, is that going to be the similar impact for the next couple of quarters? And then obviously, I mean, the reason for making this change is presumably because you saw better opportunity for purchasing power and better margins. So, can we get a may be a timeline on that, please?

Yeah. So, I think a couple of things. One thing is product line change over is happening in all distribution businesses. So, there is nothing sort of highly unique, and we're not going to get into the details of who, what, when, where and how. It's just – we believe we're in a great position moving forward with our three current paint manufacturers. We have great relationships with Axalta, PPG and a growing relationship with AkzoNobel. So we're very, very happy with our product line-up. I think in terms of the impact moving forward, I think Steve said it very well. We're going to see that probably through the third quarter, as we see that the product line changeover on a comparable basis. So when you look at the numbers and we look at it, we track every one of these things as you can imagine, so we look at it on a comparable basis.

We're going see that comparison headwind for the balance of the year, three quarters probably, maybe the balance of the year. But the actual conversion rate is we're very, very satisfied with. So that part is the good news. And you will see a host of things that happened through the course of the year, as we continue to get more headway, we got some bounce back with some of those customers that we did lose, that we gained back because of our value-added services of FinishMaster.

So, I think there's a lots of dynamics there. We're not going to get into the numbers in any great way, but we're very, very satisfied with the progress today.

Steve, would that be correct?

Yeah, yeah, I'll add one thing Leon is that, we've got great plans with the vendor partners, as Henry mentioned, Axalta, PPG and AkzoNobel to go off and really take care of the customers, and our number one goals here is to make sure that we're providing products and services to the customers that will help them become successful, so very satisfied with the direction that we're go with the conversion right now.

Okay. So follow-up from me on the U.S. side would be, you did mention that part of the EBITDA margin improvement was due to optimized buying conditions. Can you maybe comment a little bit on that please?

Yeah. I think, Leon, that's what we've been saying for both businesses all year, that's what we do as a distribution organization. We take every opportunity to make sure that we're maximizing our buying conditions from all of our vendor partners, and it is in lot of cases a very close relationship where we work with them and we make sure we have the right products – product mix and things such as that are really critical in terms of our margin outcome. So, that's – that's just more of the same if you will.

Okay. And one final one from me would be on – on the Canadian side, you did mention that the business there is overall choppy, is word that you'd like to use. I mean – and we're seeing that Prairies maybe – we're seeing some progress there. Can we look at this from a kind of progressive kind of growth throughout the year in Canada or you would still say that you lack a bit of visibility I guess throughout the course of the year?

Well, let me take it in two sides. I mean if you look at the Prairies, we started to see the light at the end of the tunnel at the end of the fourth quarter, which is great news, right? It's been – it's been a hard couple of years in the Prairies for everybody in the industry. There is no – nobody is immune from that. So I think what we are hoping we are at, at some point now as we hit bottom and we are bouncing up bottom with that two years of negative comps and now we're hitting that floor we hope. Now this is not really a trend yet, right? We've had a little bit in the fourth – end of the fourth quarter, we're seeing a little bit in January right now. So we still remain optimistic. So it's hard to call it a trend for the West yet.

When it comes to the East, I mean it's surely as we said earlier at Tony's question, it's been choppy. And what that means is we've got independent customers that are up with us and they're doing extremely well and we've got independent customers that are off in some market for local conditions and for other things that go on in their business. So we are sort of all hands on deck trying to support all of those independent customers, help them grow and recover where they are and in fact some customers helping them to accelerate growth. So – and that's why, we can't put a finger on one thing and say, look it's this market, it's just specific area, it's just really been choppy.

Thanks, guys. I'll turn over.

Thanks, Leon.

Thank you. The next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning, gentlemen. [indiscernible]

(23:49)

Hey. Just to come back on the paint side, I'm just sorry, but talking about the conversion, I understand that you've got the full impact in Q4 and this will last until Q3, but I was just curious with the conversion happening whether the negative growth should improve throughout 2017, and also what kind of conversion number are you look at going forward?

We're not going to get in to the specific numbers in terms of our conversion rates. But I think, what Steve and I are saying, we're satisfied with the numbers. So what happens in these things is that you have a conversion rate in the initial stages. And then we have what we call bounce back.

So what that means, and that's what we're probably focused on, is making sure that, if somebody is stuck with that particular product line, they don't necessarily want to make a change in the beginning if they lose their value supplier partner like us, because we don't supply that, that particular line any longer.

What happens is that, that over time, a number of those customers we expect to bounce back to us. And we're working very hard to make that happen. So I think that's kind of what you'll see for the balance of the year. Steve, would that be fair?

Yeah. It is, and again, the partnership that we have with our suppliers is really getting out to those customers, initially you have customers that support us because of the value, as Henry said , that we provide, we've add some customers that have chosen to do something different on that. And as Henry said, it bounces back to us, because they want to continue to support through FinishMaster.

Okay. Okay. Perfect. So, very good color. And if we look in terms of M&A and store opening, you open up and also increase your number of location by 31 especially with D'Angelo. I was just curious if you could provide more color on what we should expect from those acquisition in terms of revenue contribution for 2017? Also what type of impact, we should see on the funded debt EBTDIA ratio given the amount paid? And also whether those acquisitions will be slightly diluted in the shorter term, before we see the synergies?

I'll just take the first part, then Eric will address some of the numbers there. So we don't obviously declare any – any size and scale, we did say it is our larger – and it is our larger group, we're very happy with the size of the acquisition of D'Angelos, and the company is a tremendous fit for us in the California market. So we couldn't be happier with that – with that acquisition bringing that company and team into the family. So that part is awesome.

And we just won't get into – to the number specifically for obvious reasons, we're only the public company in the space and the second we start doing that, we're not trying to be difficult. But we're not going to set – get to the point where we declare sales and prices that information our competitors don't need. So from that perspective may Eric, you can address some of the other questions in terms of...

Sure. I guess Benoit a while, we do closed three deals since January 1. When I look on a combined basis, of course, it's all been financed by debt, so, yeah, the leverage ratio will go up. The – with the intent for us to, as we generate quite a bit of cash, that will be deleveraging by the year end if we don't do any more acquisitions.

So, I am not too – too fussed about our leverage, I think we know, we – we've been – we've demonstrated that we've deleveraged from where we were end of Q2 towards the end of Q4, 2016. So I think that for us it's – it's just a normal business.

As it relates to the synergy that you're poking at. So, you're quite right as you – as we have explained to the suite, when we buy company it takes us about 90 days to 120 days to move that to our own common systems. And, then, you have to go through your inventory that we're already acquired and we have to go through that inventory before you get the margin pick up link to the better volume conditions that we tend to have.

And, the third element is, in some cases it's a [ph] density lake (28:05), so there will be consolidation of locations and thereby that will bring more synergies. And, we're much into the same range that we've indicated in terms of total synergies, I would say out of those three acquisitions in 2017, I expect a little bit more synergies than perhaps what we had in 2016 just by the nature of the consolidation we are going to do.

And if you look at my commentary earlier on it really speaks to how proud we are of the ability of our team at FinishMaster in terms of their capabilities to; a, acquire, but also just as important more importantly is to actually integrate those teams successfully into our business and if you look at our operating margin in the FinishMaster business as we've acquired a host of companies over the last 24 months. We've been able to continue the improvement in the operating margins, as we have acquired and integrated those business. So, we're pretty happy with the capabilities and the confidences we have within the FinishMaster and Canadian business to be able to do that.

Thank you. And, on the margin side, Éric you mentioned that 2017 on the automotive side would be kind of flat. If I look at the paint side, the latest quarter you have been able to show a strong improvement over 2015. So, given the integration of those acquisition, should we expect that the margins to be on the paint side to be either up, down or flat for 2017?

Look my expectation is that 2017 for FinishMaster in terms of margins will be fairly similar to 2016. So, I think, as Henry pointed out, as we integrate those acquisitions, we are able to crystallize the synergies. There is obviously an ongoing business and I see 2017 a little bit like 2016 from a performance perspective.

Okay. Any corporate cost that on the EBITDA of $1.8 million when you work closer to $3.4 million, there is some saving, less bonuses and everything what is kind of the sustainable number we should use going forward especially, that you will start to get some savings on the ERP system in the back half?

If I look for 2017, I would say, it's – I think you are – it's a good trend that you had what we saw in Q4. As we've indicated, there will be additional savings in the later part of 2017 related to the IT system. If you recall back in Q1 2016, we've indicated that the negative synergies linked to the IT system was about $4.2 million. I think I've indicated that our expectation and those negative synergies will be reduced to about $2 million by the second half of 2017. So – and if you do the math, you will be able to figure that out in terms of my plant operating expenses on the corporate level.

Okay. So, that's pretty good. And free cash flow, obviously very strong...

Very happy with that.

Yeah – no. But just looking at 2017, I'm just curious what we should expect from a working capital change, because it's been up $18 million in 2016. So, I'm just wondering given the growth prospect of the integration of acquisition whether the working capital changes should be kind of more flattish or down negative?

Yeah. Look at – I don't expect – obviously there is a seasonality in our business and as you all know when in Canada for instance in Q1 we tend to increase our [indiscernible] (31:37) of the spring season, so there will be some movements in our inventory level. But when I look at an aggregate basis and with the objectives we have, my expectation is I don't expect to burn a lot of working capital by the expansion, because we're also going to benefit from the synergies and the optimization we're going to do during the year. So, to your question, I don't expect the working capital to be a big swing factor in our free cash flow.

Okay. And latest for me, if you could provide more color on the industrial paint market you've been looking at this for quite a lot while. But just, if you could provide more color on the rationale, the dynamics, the region you would target and also the synergies with the existing business.

So, Benoit, this is Steve. We've been examining the industrial market for about a year, and we've just recently hired a director, very experienced director to come in and really lead the charge there. We this – at the end of this week, actually tomorrow we'll be announcing who our partners in this venture will be.

And so really the first stage of that for us would be is 7 to 10 pilot markets for us, where we feel that we can best understand the segments that we're going into. And once we feel, those are successful, we will extend that out. It won't be in every branch. It'll be in selective markets where we feel that there is avenue for us to grow.

Really this synergies from the industrial segment really come in to brick and mortar , it's a different sales group, it's a different leadership group, but the DCs, the branches, some of the – some of the folks in the branch that mix the paint, deliver the paint, will be a synergy for us. But there is a segmentation if you really want to come to the management of sales. We're very excited about the runway here in industrial and the partners that we are about to announce.

Okay.

And just to compliment Steve and his team, because this is not a sort of the guy sitting around the table for a few minutes thinking about we should go do this. This has been an extensive project that lasted over 12 month to make sure we have the right plan, the right partners and the right approach to the market. So, this is a very well thought out and about to be executed plan that we're looking for a good upside over the longer run.

Okay. So good job and thanks for the time.

Thank you.

Thanks, Benoit.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Sara.

Good morning, Sara.

Just picking up on that last question on the industrial paint opportunity, can you – can you kind of quantify what kind of a market that is in the U.S. and what kind of market share you might target over time?

Sara, this is Steve, again. The market share is a – is a quite comparable to the automotive refinish.

Yes, the market size very comparable. Right now, we are setting our expectation for a slow, but long-term growth in that, so we really haven't set where we want to be. Looking at this, one of the factors that, that we used to decide to go into this is that, there is not a national distributor that really plays in these segments. So, we're going to dip our toes in the water slowly, make sure that we do it right, and then continue to grow from there. So I would be pretty matured to say where we think we'll end up just starting this. But, we believe that there is a great runway for us to grow in this over a long period of time.

Okay. And just to be clear, are you using the same paint manufacturers or is it a completely separate list?

We will be using some of the current suppliers, but it won't be all the same. Industrial is a different animal. As I said before, it's different sales people, different customers, different way to sell. And so, we – as Henry said, we spent over a year interviewing manufacturers to make sure that we pick the right ones. But, you'll see a few of the same names show up, yeah.

Okay. And just continuing on the FinishMaster and the conversion rate of the collision centers that left. Just wondering what's the cost impact to FinishMaster, like how much CapEx – upfront CapEx or lagging CapEx would you have just on replacement of equipment and that kind of thing?

Look, I think – no, for us, as I indicated in the past, we continue to support our customers, we do customer investments from time to time. The numbers are no different in terms of percentages of sales of FinishMaster. I think I've indicated that typically on the FinishMaster business, we tend to invest 2% to 2.5% of sales into customer investments every year. And, we will be in the same ballpark in 2017.

Obviously, when we make acquisitions and I do want to clarify that when you do acquisitions, you're also buying a book of business that the seller had, and that had an impact also on our customer investments at that point. So, I don't see this as any unusual activities from that perspective, we'll continue to do the same. We offer a very good service and competitive turns to our customers, and from that perspective.

From a CapEx, look, there's no additional CapEx required for us with that product line changeover. I think the investments that you're referring to would be more customer investments itself.

Okay. And maybe just both – the mention of gross margin, there was some negative impact, both in FinishMaster and Canada mentioned on negative mix. I'm just wondered if you can kind of qualify what that is in each market?

Well, look, it's always a question of product mix and sales mix in Canada as we witnessed in Q3, if you recall, we had a bit of that. And in FinishMaster, I would – sorry, I would say, it all depends a little bit about how much we sell in private label versus how much we sell on the core business. And by regions, there's also some geographic elements to that and type of customers. So...

In Canada...

And it applies to Canada as well, it's the same situation. It's the product mix and customer mix.

Okay. But are you seeing any major shift towards lower value items or anything like that.

No. No. No. No. No. No. No trends either way.

Okay. And just lastly from me. Workers comp expense on the sold U.S. business, how long is Uni-Sélect responsible for that?

Yeah. That's a good question, Sara. So, basically, those employees that were on our work comps and time dispositions remain under our responsibility. We're obviously in the midst of trying to close all those cases. And it's hard to say for us that there will be future costs or not linked to further settlement in the future. But basically, the picture is the employees that were on workers' comps when we closed the deal are our responsibility.

The cases that were in hand at the time of the transaction?

That is correct, yeah.

Okay. So would you have, I mean, has there been kind of an accrual or something for these or is this something that's just going to be expense that has incurred?

Well, we had accruals, the claims exceeded what we expected at the time of closure of the deal. So going forward, this will have a P&L impact if we have any further claims.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Great. Thanks, Sara.

Thank you. The next question is from Michael Glenn. Please go head.

Hi, good morning.

Hi, Michael.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the question. Just [indiscernible] (40:15) on Canada a bit. Can you just talk a bit about the lift you've seen on the corporate stores you've converted and what kind of returns you're seeing from those investments?

Yeah. I don't think we're going to get into segmenting the specifics on the corporate stores. Again, I'm trying to give you an indication of the high level growth, but the reality for us in corporate stores is that there's two levels of profitability for us. One level is currently because we have not integrated the systems, which – for that, it's a big deal for us.

We need to get a standard platform installed in Canada so we can capture some of those synergies that we call are stranded. There are some cost synergies that are out there that are stranded, the better product alignment and the access to the products throughout the system. Those are all things and efficiencies of operating the business on a single platform are what we're really looking for right now.

So that's why we're making the investments in the platform. And if I draw a parallel to FinishMaster, FinishMaster has a standard platform. They acquired company 90 days later that company is on the system, that typically had been rebranded within six months. Everything is operating as FinishMaster. While we have a challenge in Canada as we do that, because we didn't have that foundation.

So our ambition is, this year all the acquisitions that we have had in Canada in the corporate store front will be on that standard platform by the end of this year, that's our ambition. And have that platform up and running, and being efficient. And they will be systematically going after those efficiencies. But I think what we're seeing today is that we're seeing lift in our sales on the corporate store front, we have installed leadership teams. When I talk about people, processes and systems, that is absolutely directly appropriate to the Canadian store group. We have got a great team in there now and they are driving sales growth in those businesses and those disciplines underlying that will contribute to the profitability moving forward.

Okay. And just in terms of FinishMaster Canada to clarify that, that group goes into Canada Auto parts right? That's where we see that ...

That is correct. Those numbers are rolled up within the Canada operations, yeah.

Okay.

But the model is identical to FinishMaster in the U.S. So, we're very, very concerned to make sure we have the identical brand in both businesses. We operate the same way, we have similar manufacturer and partner supplier, so that part is very much the same in both sides of the border, but it is Canadian operated.

Okay. And are you focused on the same paint lines in Canada that you're focused on in the U.S.?

Yeah. We have similar partners in both sides of the border for sure, both in paint and our alloy products. I mean, they are very much the same partners.

In the target side that you're seeking in Canada are they already – are they already buying the paint from you in Canada?

Not necessarily, no. [indiscernible] (43:20) an example was a competitive paint jobber in the West, so there's three locations and they're – they have been now part of the family and we've taken on the product lines and the customers and we're building that, using that as a footprint to grow in the West.

So, in some cases, there will be. In some cases, we'll have independent jobbers we previously supplied and we'll acquire those and we're happy to acquire competitive jobbers to fit a very similar thing to the U.S. in terms of building out our geographic coverage of Canada.

Okay. And the overall market size in Canada that you're – can you quantify the size of that – just on the FinishMaster Canada side?

FinishMaster Canada market, we've probably got the data somewhere. I just don't know where it is right off now. But it's...

We'll have to – Michael, we'll have to get back to you with a more definitive answer on the market size. But I think we're going to use our rule of thumb, right, Canada is more or less time smaller than the U.S. market. So, if you extrapolate from that you won't be – you shouldn't be too far off.

Well, it's a little bit different in Canada as you have a lot more driven business from the insurance companies than what you currently have in the States. And the States is moving towards that direction, but in Canada, the insurance company plays a key role with the [indiscernible] (44:39).

FinishMaster And remember, we do have those numbers. I just don't know off the top of my head.

I mean, we are the largest MSO in Québec as an example with our program that we own, the ProColor franchise. So, we know the market intimately, particularly in the Eastern part of Canada, but we have lots of room to grow across Canada and more particularly in the West.

Okay. And just one more, have you seen any step-up in activity in the competitive environment for M&A in the U.S. at all?

Michael, this is Steve. There is always activity, or competitive activity out there Especially with the larger sellers that are out there. There's very rarely a single offer that gets made. But I think that – I think that we're very proud of is that, we are not the largest payers, we pay a fair price, but the acquisitions come to us and the D'Angelo is a great example, they come to us because our cultures really melt together very well.

And it's not always about the dollar; it's about the future of the legacy of the business and the future for the team members that are there.

And that's one huge filter for us, Steve, that's a great point. We don't buy businesses that don't fit our culture. So we talk about the ability to integrate those businesses, if we don't believe that culture is – culture we can integrate into ours, we don't even – we take a pass on those.

Okay. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Jonathan Lamers. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning, Jonathan.

Good morning, Jonathan.

On the new FinishMaster greenfield location that was opened. Could you comment on the decision to open a greenfield location as opposed to acquire?

Yes. This is Steve again, Jonathan. So there is not always availability of folks in our market to acquire [ph] earnings (46:55). This is one of those markets that we've been trying to get into for a long time, that we've looked at the possibilities there, and really the decision to jump into that was based on our customers that are in the market, that wanted us there. So it made sense for us to go Greenfield and this is part of our strategy that, as our customers grow, and want us to be part of their growth, if there is not a distributor, who is in the position to sell at that time, we'll make the decision to go greenfield.

Okay.

I think Jonathan, if I could add. This then applies to both businesses. I mean, we'll do that in U.S. to build out our geographic coverage, we'll do that in Canada too and we'll do it on a select basis and we have an independent driver in the market, we're not going in with the corporate stores. And we've made it very clear to them that we're not going to do that.

However, if there is a market that we're not going to cover, we're not serving well, we're just as equally up – have the ability to open up a BUMPER TO BUMPER corporate store in Canada on a greenfield basis to build out that geographic coverage. So, we'll do that in both businesses on a sort of select basis.

Do you have any guidance as of how many stores you plan to open this year?

We stayed away from that. I think one way I've said it – the way I've looked at it Jonathan is this, we're going to do it naturally. In terms of Canada, what we've tried to avoid to do is add capacity to the market. So, we'll add greenfield where we'll – where we're underserved for sure, but we're not looking to wholesale that capacity to the market.

So, we don't know what – how many specific locations we're going to put into the company every year, and I don't want to put a number out there, that we have to chase. I want us to be very, very natural, that we pick companies that are culturally fit with us. We put in geographies and businesses that fit with us. So, we're kind of intentionally not putting numbers out. So, not to avoid your question, we're just not doing that.

That's fine. But how do the start up costs for these locations compared to the acquisition cost of buying the existing shops?

It depends on the – the existing customer base. We can go in with.

See, the example is one that we had a number of customers that were already looking to do business with us. So that adds a very nice base of business almost immediately.

Okay.

Yeah. And then Jonathan, it's Eric, I mean, there's always [indiscernible] (49:23) when you compare acquisitions versus building a greenfield, right. Building a greenfield mean you have to find the right path, you need to recruit all this. So that's part of the journey when you do the greenfield as opposed acquisition where it typically needs higher talent at the same time.

So from a capital investment perspective, I won't say there is a big difference, if we – for instance, you have to rebrand, you have rebrand, there is no additional cost in doing a greenfield or an acquisition. So a lot of the costs are similar from that perspective. And to Henry's point, the key here is, we have a line of sight to adding customers that will actually buy your products from that store. I mean, that's the key here, as it relates making this a profitable greenfield.

Right, right.

Yeah. We've said very, very clearly, we don't acquire companies for product lines. We have lots of great products. I mean that's, we acquire companies strictly for the people and the customers.

Right.

We can build buildings, and we've got lots of product lines. So those things are good, we're looking for great teams and we're looking for great customers.

So based on your experience, how long does it take the greenfield stores to breakeven?

Oh, it all depends. So it's a tricky question, right, in the sense that, if you have an anchored customer, day one, you open the door, I mean, obviously your breakeven point will be much faster. I think, on average, it's probably a 12 to 18 months period before you breakeven on a store.

Okay. Just moving on, on the opportunity in the industrial markets, for those of us not familiar with that side of the business, can you describe some of your customers there? Just some examples of them and describe some of these end markets that they sell into?

Yeah. So Jonathan, there's different segments within industrial and so one of the things that we did with the consultants and with the group is really made sure that we looked at where distribution can play. So, I can tell you the customers that we're not going after, it's the original equipment manufacturers, the John Deere Tractors, the case, the General Motors, Ford, that's not what we consider industrial.

Really what we're going after is the job shops. When you talk about the production side of the business, so maybe not the guy that builds the tractor, but the guy that paints the air cleaner for the tractor and then we're looking at the industrial maintenance segment, which is really when you go into a – into a plant and you see the railings and the post, and then the machines and the floors, and all the things that they use to put coating van, that's the maintenance part of this business.

We're not going after painting buildings and bridges and that, but we're really going after the parts and pieces, and the manufacturing facilities itself. I mean, – and then the last segment that – and that's mainly the liquid product. And then the last segment we're going after to start is the powder business. In recent years, the powder business has become a much bigger segment, more people getting in the powder, easier to apply and cost effectiveness for the manufacturers. And so we're – we believe there is a long runway for us in that also.

Okay, great. Thanks for the color. And Éric, on the tax rate, when do you expect that your tax loss carry forwards will be exhausted? in the company...

Yeah. I – it's a good question Jonathan. So we've been certainly burning our NOLs at a rapid pace with the very good profitability here at FinishMaster and all the acquisitions that have been done. So the reality is they will all be burn in 2017. So I don't expect any benefits in 2018 from those taxes [indiscernible] (53:29) forward. I'll take the opportunity to say that our expectation in terms of the treasury tax rate for 2017 will be around 33%, 34% and it will vary obviously depending on the revenue mix and profitability of each segment. And cash tax rate will probably in the 20% to 24% for – overall for the year.

Sorry, Eric was that 32% to 34% for 2017?

33% to 34% for the treasury tax rate and between 22% and 24% in my mind at this stage as it relates to the cash tax rates.

Okay, excellent. And one last question if I can. The paint suppliers, do they manufacture their products in the U.S. or do they manufacture them outside the U.S. do we know that?

Yeah, yeah. Most of the products, this is Steve again. Most of the product is manufactured in the states. There are a few products that do come from overseas, but they are rapidly trying to make sure that all products are manufactured here just because of the availability of the transportation costs, just to make sure that we're available when needed.

Yeah. And for obvious reasons right now in today's political climate, yeah, we're also to live to that to so. Nobody is immune to that, so everybody is pretty sensitive in dealing with that.

Okay. Thanks for your comments.

Thanks, Jonathan.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Just a follow-up on the Industrial Paint. I just wanted to – who is distributing the Liquid and Powder business now? Is it Industrial distributors or is it kind of mom-and-pop types across U.S.?

So, Sara. It is a very fragmented business right now. There is, as I said earlier, there is really no lead distribution group that is out there. You might have a small regional player that does well in a few states, but there is a lot of small, as you call them mom-and-pop, distributors out there. So, that's one of the reasons we feel that there is runway for a national player and we feel that the end users are looking for somebody that they can have consistency across different areas.

So, would it make sense then to go after one of these small regional players just to get a little bit of density in particular a market and get to know the market better first?

Yeah. So, that is definitely part of our strategy is that no different than the refinished if there is an opportunity to acquire. A player in a market that makes sense that supply of the segments that we're looking at. Yeah, we'll definitely go after them.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back to Mr. Buckley.

Great. Thanks, pal. So, very quickly, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today and we also invite you to join us for our first quarter results conference call scheduled for May 4 this year. So, thank you everyone. Great questions. We appreciate your continued support and we'll talk to you on May 4.

Thank you, Ron.

Thank you.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. And we thank you for your participation.