corrected transcript


Uni-Sélect, Inc.
 
UNS.CA
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Richard G. Roy
 
– President and Chief Executive Officer


Denis Mathieu
 
– Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Gary O’Connor
 
– Executive Vice President


William E. Alexander
 
– Executive Vice President-Corporate Stores


Other Participants


Jessy Hayem
 
– Analyst, TD Securities


Elaine Lae
 
– Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.


Hugues Bourgeois
 
– Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers


Otto Cheung
 
– Analyst, GMP Securities LP


Vincent Perri
 
– Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities


Anthony Zicha
 
– Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Fourth Quarter Results Conference


Call for Uni-Sélect. I would like to introduce Richard Roy as well as – Please go ahead.


Richard G. Roy, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. Welcome to the 2010 fourth quarter review call for Uni-Sélect. My name is


Richard Roy, the President and CEO.


With me today are Denis Mathieu, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Willi Alexander,


Executive Vice President Corporate Stores; and Gary O’Connor, Executive Vice President. I will


present the fourth quarter operational highlights and Denis will do the financial review, and I will


conclude.


So looking at the fourth quarter, sales were C$6.2 million lower than last year at C$309.4 million,


but the decrease is really made of currency exchange, which reduced revenues by about C$8


million. The stores are in the locations that were either closed or sold reduced revenue by C$3.8


million. There was also one less working day during the quarter, so change in sales due to organic


reasons were positive C$8.3 million or 2.7% for the quarter. Variation is comprised of two different


components: the Canadian organic sales were about C$1.4 million or 1.1% of organic increase,


while the U.S. organic sales were up 3.6% or C$6.9 million.


Earnings from continued operations at C$11.8 million or C$0.60 per share represent an increase of


122% compared to last year, which had generated $0.27 per share. Once adjusted for the non-


recurrent items, such as the implementation cost and development cost of the ERP and some of


the store closure expenses, adjusted earnings were C$12.4 million for the quarter or C$0.63 per


share, representing an increase of 43% compared to last year that had generated C$0.44 a share.


Sales for the year ended December 2010 were C$1.324 billion down C$86 million, again the


variation in the currency exchange reduced revenues by C$89 million for the total year, while stores


that were either closed or sold reduced revenues by C$21 million. Again, one less day of billing that


brings us to sales increase for organically by C$25.5 million or 1.8% for the year. Again if we break
corrected transcript


Uni-Sélect, Inc.
 
UNS.CA
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 15, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


this down by the two geographic markets where we are present, the Canadian organic sales were


C$2 million or 0.4% while the U.S. organic sales for the year were C$23.5 million or 2.7%.


The earnings from continuing operations for the year were C$47.3 million or C$2.40 per share,


representing an increase of 9.1% compared to last year as that has generated C$43.4 million or


C$2.20. Once adjusted for nonrecurring items, such as the ERP and the store closure expenses,


adjusted earnings for the year were C$50.9 million or C$2.58, representing an increase of 6.6%


compared to last year, which had generated C$2.42.


Those results take into consideration the following elements: a variation in the currency exchange


rate reducing profits by more than C$2.8 million or C$0.14 per share. Increase of earnings from


continuing operations per share would have been 15.5% or C$2.54 versus C$2.20 if the exchange


rate had remained the same.


For the three months ended November 20, 2010, the latest information available, miles driven in


the U.S. were up about 2.3% for the year – for the same period last year and year-to-date for all of


2010 for the 11 months period ended November increased to 0.7%. Furthermore in the market


conditions, the average price for the U.S. gallon of unleaded fuel during last quarter was about


C$2.91, net increase of about 7.5%.


In the first quarter of this year, we see the price has moved up significantly higher than last year, at


C$3.25 per gallon versus C$2.55. Again, there has been a lot of fluctuations in exchange rates


between the Canadian and U.S. currencies, where it was an average for the year 2009 of C$1.14 to


C$1.03 this year and for all of the year. And if we look strictly at the fourth quarter, last year it was


at C$1.06, and this year at C$1.01.


Always talking about market conditions, AIA or the Automotive Industry Association of Canada has


finally announced the signature of an agreement with the Canadian Automotive Service Information


Standard. The voluntary agreement aims at ensuring that the automotive aftermarket has access to


emission- and non-emission-related service information, diagnostic tools, and training and so on


and so forth from all vehicle manufacturers in Canada.


This agreement is supported by the various organizations on the original equipment manufacturers


and that agreement ensures that Canadian drivers will have a choice between having their vehicles


serviced or repaired either at an aftermarket service facility or an OE authorized dealership. This


agreement represents a significant achievement for Canada’s automotive aftermarket industry.


If we look at some of the operational elements, I will tell you that the work that we have started


before to improve our service to our customers and return on assets has continued. Looking at the


total inventory at the end of the year it increased though, because we have deployed additional


Beck/Arnley products for imported vehicles. We’ve also deployed additional imported entry level


products to meet demand and also special buys made during the fourth quarter. The new


warehouse dedicated to imported products for North American application is in operation and this


will improve our competitiveness in the entry-level category.


Now for more additional financial information, I will ask my friend and colleague, Denis Mathieu, to


address you. Denis?


Denis Mathieu, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Richard. Let me provide you with more or a few additional information mainly related to


the fourth quarter, a subsequent event and also the first quarter of 2011.