Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations and Communications Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Executive Vice President - Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, thank you for standing by, the conference call is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter Results 2012 Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Hi, and welcome to the 2012 first quarter review of Uni-Select, Inc. The speakers today will be Richard G. Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Vice President and CFO. Also attending the conference are Gary O'Connor, Executive Vice President; Willy Alexander, Executive Vice President, Corporate Stores, USA; and Dan Courtney, President of FinishMaster.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information since management has made certain assumptions which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those indicated or underlying these forward-looking statements.

For more information on risks and uncertainties, please refer to our most recent Annual Report filed with the Canadian Securities Commission and available on SEDAR. Forward-looking information discussed on this call are based on management's current estimates and expectations. We do not undertake to publicly update such information unless required by applicable securities laws.

Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information followed by Richard Roy, who will describe operation highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will open lines for your questions.

Thank you, Karine. Good afternoon. Sales for the quarter were $54 million higher than last year at $451 million. The increase in revenues versus last year is mainly made of the impact of the acquisitions of FinishMaster and the Florida operations amounting to $35 million, combined with an organic growth which accounted for $17 million or 4.2% for the quarter. The Canadian organic sales were $2 million or 1.5% while the U.S. organic sales were $15 million or 5.2%.

Adjusted EBITDA at $27.3 million is 18% higher than last year at $23.1 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin at 6.1% represents an increase as compared to last year at 5.8%. This increase is mainly due to better buying conditions and proactive management of selling prices, incremental margin derived from organic growth and synergies realized on the latest acquisitions, partially offset by additional IT cost related to ERP implementation and a change in the distribution channel mix.

Net earnings at $11.2 million or CAD 0.52 per share representing an increase of 16% compared to last year at $9.7 million or CAD 0.45 per share. It's worth mentioning that in the first quarter of 2011, net earnings included net gain on disposal of assets and FinishMaster acquisition costs. During the quarter, we acquired fixed asset of $6.4 million and paid $2.6 million in dividend to shareholders.

Total net debt amounted to $370 million, an increase of $10 million as compared to last year – I mean, I'm sorry, to December 31, 2011. This temporary increase in debt is primarily due to the increase of working capital mainly due to seasonality as the sales in the first quarter are higher than the fourth quarter last year. Despite seasonality, we have been able to start lowering the level of inventory during the first quarter. Total net debt ratio on invested capital was 41%, a level comparable to December 31.

Considering the cash flow generated from the operations and the ongoing reduction in inventories, we are confident to bring this ratio down during next quarters. Also, everything [ph] being equal, (4:34) we are still comfortable to lower our debt level by $100 million before year end. This conclude my financial review. Richard?

Thank you, Denis. Looking at the overall market conditions, it's very similar to what we saw the last quarter. The average age of the vehicles is there and the overall economic environment is slightly, I will say slightly more encouraging. Obviously, increased fuel prices continue to be a headwind affecting not only the market in general but also our operating cost. So at this stage we remain cautiously positive for the future.

Looking at the sales in Canada. As Denis mentioned, we posted organic growth of 1.5% and this organic growth was achieved despite very mild weather conditions and rising fuel cost. The re-organization of our network achieved in 2011 though resulted in cost improvements, but we still expect better results in terms of productivity and financial performance within the next quarter as we complete the rollout of our next – of our new system. So far we are incurring not only ERP rollout costs but also doubled IT costs – operating costs as the maintenance and running two systems in parallel.

In the States, the sales for the first quarter were up at $335 million or 19% compared to $281 million last year for the first quarter. The organic increase of 5.2% for the quarter came from the recruitment of over 200 installers within our banner programs, over 100 new collision repair center customers, increase in volume with the existing banner installers, recruitment of over 500 new accounts, and growth of our major account business.

The sales of Beck/Arnley products for the foreign nameplate stakehold continue to grow significantly both in Canada and the U.S. Several independent distributors were signed during the quarter and other current customers have expanded their Beck/Arnley product assortment. Those sales were done at an improved gross margin. However, as we mentioned for Canada, the activities in our warehouses were impacted by the cost related to the rollout of SAP. Furthermore, we also experienced a difference in our sales mix in our – between our channel, more direct shipment, and less warehouse sales, and that had a direct negative impact on our blended margin.

Six stores were remodeled during the first quarter to improve retail sales. We expect to remodel another 19 stores during the balance of 2012 for a total of 45 stores remodeled over two years. We will also open three new stores during the second quarter.

The integration of our recent acquisitions, FinishMaster in Florida, went very well. The synergies evolved as planned and we are certainly confident to achieve and even surpass the projected benefits for FinishMaster that we had announced for the second year which were $6 million. I will warn you though or mention that we're – even though we're very, very happy with the integration of the Florida assets, I think we've got to be careful of the different seasonality experienced with the Florida operations compared to our northern locations and quite frankly – finished the operation that we had in Florida, had excellent sales during the first quarter also.

The branch consolidation between FinishMaster and Uni-Select, that have continued during the quarter with three store consolidations and we are planning to consolidate two locations every month into one for the rest of 2012.

As far as the ERP is concerned, we have completed the implementation of six warehouses and 22 stores linked to those warehouses at the beginning of March. The implementation was a success. The next wave is planned for June and we'll include six more warehouses and 46 stores linked to those warehouses. So the project is progressing well and on schedule.

Prior to this call we just held our 26th Annual Shareholders meeting. As announced in the proxy circular, four board members retired: Mrs. Jeanne Wojas and Mr. Clay Buzzard, Jean-Louis Dulac and Joe Felicelli. We welcomed two new members who were elected at the meeting, Jim Buzzard and Robert Chevrier, who will act as Chairman going forward.

So during the next quarter the corporation will continue to focus on the following objectives: maintain our efforts to increase the efficiency of operations through increased sales, improved productivity and margins as well as continue our stringent controls over cost; reducing the working capital in order to decrease the level of indebtedness and as we had said last quarter we're still on track to have reduced our debt by $100 million by the end of this year; we will pursue the integration of FinishMaster activities as well as those related to the operations acquired in Florida and we will pursue the orderly deployment of the enterprise resource planning system during the last quarter.

Today the board of directors declared a dividend of CAD 0.13 per share payable on July 20, 2012 to common shareholders of records on June 30, 2012, an increase of 8.3% compared to last year.

This completes our 2012 first quarter review. We are now ready for your questions. Matt, if you want to open the element. To all of you, please feel free to ask the question either in French or in English. Thank you.

Thank you. We'll now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] There'll be a brief pause while participants register and we thank you for your patience. The first question is from [ph] Elaine Lee (10:57). Please go ahead.

Thank you. You guys saw some good organic growth especially in the U.S. this quarter. How do you see that continuing on to 2012 and just what are your thoughts there?

As we mentioned at the last quarter we were guardedly optimistic in terms of growth. We have done a lot of elements over – in previous years with national accounts, with our collision repair shops, with the recruitments, to our banner program and so forth. So it's very difficult for me to tell you an exact percentage. We've been improving sequentially in the third and fourth quarter last year and the first quarter is pretty good.

So to the extent that some headwind, like the price of fuel, are not dampening the activity too much, we continue to be guardedly optimistic in terms of growth. We're doing well in several markets and we have made a lot of investments in time to improve that organic growth and it's beginning to show some results.

Anyway, would you say the organic growth – was it more market share growth overall demand and this – I know at your AGM you're saying industry was forecasting about 4% organic growth for obviously the entire industry. Would that be a reasonable number to go by?

Well, it certainly – those forecasts are exactly what they are; forecast. We certainly would believe that whatever the industry ends up doing at the end of the day we're performing at least along those lines and obviously we'd like to overperform that. I will tell you one area where we feel very comfortable, both in Canada and the U.S., that we are definitely overperforming the market is on the paint distribution side where we do believe that we're gaining market share.

Okay. Perfect. And just on the price inflation. Was there a big impact this quarter? I realized last quarter obviously a lot of inventory to take advantage of upcoming price inflation. Did you see it in Q1 and how [indiscernible] (13:17)?

I would tell you that it's probably a little bit more prevalent on the paint side. I will tell you in Canada we haven't seen anything. Our own internal computation which is certainly not scientific would show about a 1% difference, negative difference in pricing at the end of the first quarter last year versus a year ago. And on the U.S. side, my colleague in this room here are indicating to me that there hasn't been any big pricing increase. So when we're talking about organic growth, it's really on account of volume.

Okay. And you were mentioning the $100 million of I guess debt to be repaid throughout the year. Is the schedule still about $50 million working cap by end of Q2 and then $50 million, really, from cash flow for the rest of the year...

Denis?

...is that's still...

You're right on. Exactly.

That's exactly what it is.

Great. Perfect. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from [ph] Aaron Chang (14:19). Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Just to follow up on the margin question. Last quarter, I believe you guys sort of mentioned that I think it's, if I remember correctly, a 50 basis point improvement is not unattainable. Would you still sort of agree with that for the remainder of the year?

I certainly haven't changed my mind.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. And with respect to your net debt of $370 million, I understand it's seasonal. Is there any major concerns with getting close with the debt levels sort of getting closer to covenants at the moment?

No. No concern. We're comfortably within the covenants.

I think it's worth to mention that because some of you released the bank covenant at the last quarter, I think it's worth to mention that for the first quarter we do have a 3.75 debt to EBITDA ratio instead of 3.5 at year end.

That's the threshold that we have.

Exactly.

But we're not even meet – exceeding the 3.5.

Okay, sounds good. And then I guess my – I guess if you can give us a little color. Can you actually tell me if debt levels have gone down subsequent to the quarter now, like as of today?

The answer is yes.

Okay. Was it material?

I think if I may, if I can tell you, the inventory at the end of the quarter went down by $17 million. At the end of April the inventory was down by $37 million, so an additional $20 million. So you can imagine that if the inventory went down, receivable went up or debt went down.

Great. Okay, perfect. Thanks a lot. I'll jump back in the queue.

Thank you. Your next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Tony.

And so could you give us a bit of an update on the competitive landscape in the U.S.? Are we seeing some of the retailers kind of muscle their way into your market?

I would tell you that it's no different than what it was last quarter, to two or three quarters ago. So it hasn't really changed any more. It's still very competitive out there. But I would not tell you that it's anymore competitive right now than it was eight, nine months ago.

Okay. And in Canada, which would be the most competitive market? It's still Ontario?

Yes, definitely. We're doing very well by the way in Ontario, but yes it is by far the most competitive. The Toronto- the GTA area is really the most competitive market in Canada.

Okay. So when we look at the weather, it was pretty mild. Did that have a negative impact? The sales have been better than if it hadn't been as warm?

I will tell you that in the northern markets, for example in Canada, certainly when we're looking at weather-dependent products like batteries or rotating electrical, the sales were lower than we expected and I think it's probably part of that is related to weather type of things. At the same time I would tell you that in more southern climates, the nice weather may have brought forward some of the spending that typically we see maybe in April and May to March because the weather was nicer.

So all in all, Anthony, it would be very difficult for me to tell you whether the weather had a big impact or not. I certainly think that in some of our markets it didn't help; in some others it probably has helped a little bit, maybe moved up the timing of some spending by consumers to Q1 as opposed to Q2.

Okay. And one last question. In reference to the M&A market, do you see more opportunities now than let's say a year ago and what are the multiples like and how large would – of a target would you feel comfortable going through?

Well, I will tell you that while we're always looking at acquisition, again, this is very opportunistic and our main goal right now is to manage the balance sheet so that we can decrease leverage. So I'm not saying that we're not going to be – to go after acquisitions; if we see good value in something that fits our portfolio very well we would be interested, but we're kind of getting in a hurry very slowly there.

Okay. Well, thank you, Richard. Thank you, Denis.

Welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. My first question is regarding the inventory levels. You're mentioning that it's decreasing in Q2 again following the Q1 decrease versus Q4. Is there an optimal level that you'll look forward too for 2012 for example?

Basically, what we mentioned is that we were looking at targeting about $50 million worth of reduction in the working capital. A good portion of that will come from inventory reduction.

And also at the Shareholders' Meeting earlier today, what we mentioned also is the fact that we have to increase the inventory for a couple of things. One mainly because of the fact that we, during the implementation of the year, we don't want to impact the customer service so we have decided to add some safety stock. So now during the year of 2012 we will reduce those safety stock to go back to the normal level; that's for one.

And the second one is the – and on the paint side, we had some good or special buys that we – or special deals with some suppliers.

Okay, thanks. And just one housekeeping question. Regarding the $35 million of acquisition contribution for the revenue, how much of that was prior to Depot and FinishMaster? I know FinishMaster was about 11 days or so, but just to clear that out.

On a top line I can tell you that the, that $11 million are for FinishMaster, top line for 11 days, 11 to 12; and Parts Depot it was $22 million for the stores and warehouses in Florida, top line.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting back to Mr. Roy.

Okay. Well, thank you very much for your interest in Uni-Select and for your presence on the call today. We are satisfied with our first quarter results, being ahead like that about 16%. We will continue, believe me, to work at improving our situation in the marketplace. I've got a great team surrounding me and they're working for all of our shareholders in a very diligent manner.

So thank you very much for your interest and I look forward to see you I guess on this call in early August when we disclose the second quarter results. Take care, everyone.

Thank you. The conference call has now concluded. Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.