Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations and Communications Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — EVP Corporate Services & CFO, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President & CEO, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and COO-Canadian Operations, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Brent Windom — President and COO-US, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please standby, your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2013 Second Quarter Results Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager-Investor Relation and Communication. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. Welcome to the 2013 second quarter review of Uni-Select's Inc. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO. Also attending the conference are Gary O'Connor; President and COO, Automotive Canada; Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster; and Brent Windom recently appointed President and COO, Automotive USA.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Securities Legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. Should you be familiar with the concern of our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information, please refer to our most recent Annual Report available on SEDAR. Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information followed by Richard Roy who will discuss operational highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will open the lines for questions.

Thank you, Karine. Welcome, the sales for the second quarter amount to $477 million which is flat as compared to last year. It is worth mentioning that we achieved organic sales growth of 1.2% or $5.8 million in the second quarter. Our U.S. operations post organic growth of 2.7% as the results of sales program and overall better execution combined with improved service level permitted by a more stable ERP system. In Canada, organic sales declined by 2.5%. Sales also reflect a 1.6% decrease directly related to the closure of certain locations as part of the recent announced Action Plan.

Adjusted EBITDA totaled $29.3 million compared to $31.2 million a year before – last year, sorry. The adjusted EBITDA margins stood at 6.2% compared to 6.5% in the second quarter of 2012. This decline is mainly attributable to the shift in the distribution channel mix from the warehouse distribution to direct shipment and unexpected cost to stabilize the ERP system. However, the savings derived from the implementation of the Action Plan partially offset these negative factors.

Those saving are related to the closure of locations with limited profitability, the workforce reduction and the reduction in the operational expenses. These initiatives reduced expenses by approximately $10 million on an annual basis and $5 million of which will positively affect 2013 results.

Our second quarter results include restructuring charges, write-off of assets and others of – amounting to $35.2 million related to site closure and consolidation cost as part of the Action Plan announced on July 11.

These charges are mainly related to employee's termination benefits, the recognition of future lease obligations, write-off of certain property and equipment to their net realizable value, and the write-off of certain software which no longer be used.

Adjusted for these charges as well as other costs, which are not representative of our ongoing operations, adjusted earnings stood at $16.6 million or $0.72 per share versus $0.74 year-on-year. On a net basis we recorded a loss of $9 million in the quarter or $0.43 per share due to that one-time charge of $24 million after tax.

Now for the six months – the sales for the six-month period ended June 30, 2013, total almost $900 million – $898 million, $24 million lower than the same period in 2012, so it's a carry of 2012. The decrease is mainly attributable to store closures related to the Action Plan representing a decrease of $14 million and it's mainly due also to the fact that we have fewer billing days for an impact of $8 million.

We achieved organic growth of 0.2% in the U.S. for the period, while our Canadian operations record an organic decline of 1.3%. Adjusted EBITDA amount $46.6 million which is $11 million lower than last year. The adjusted EBITDA margin was also lower at 5.2% compared to 6.3% in 2012. Most of the variance is due to a very soft first quarter this year as compared to last year.

We report a net loss of $3.2 million or $0.50 per share in the six months period compared to a net earnings of $26 million or $1.20 per share last year. Once adjust for items such as restructuring charges, write-off of assets, and other related costs to the ERP, earnings were $22.6 million or $1.5 per share compared to a $1.33 last year. And finally, since December 31, 2012, we reduced our total debt by $25 million to $284 million. And we have generated cash from operating activities of $50 million, which is $15 million higher than last year. We are still forecasting to reduce that by more than $40 million by year end, and [indiscernible] (06:32) an additional $15 million. And that will bring our debt EBITDA ratio below the three times threshold. So Richard?

Thank you very much, Denis. Before I get into the details of our achievements for the second quarter, I would like to welcome Mr. Brent Windom on this call and congratulate him for his appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer of Uni-Select USA, our parts distribution activity South of the border.

Mr. Windom has been with Uni-Select for nine years. He was Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing U.S. automotive and prior to August 2012, he was responsible for sales and marketing across North America. With nearly 30 years in the automotive aftermarket, Mr. Windom has served as Vice President of Marketing and Merchandising for MAWDI from 1994 to 2004, when MAWDI was acquired by Uni-Select. We are confident that Mr. Windom's experience and abilities will greatly contribute to the implementation and achievement of the Action Plan announced three weeks ago, and to the general improvement of our results. His appointment is effective today.

I would also like to thank Mr. Dennis Welvaert for his contribution over recent months. We are delighted to welcome Mr. Welvaert on our Board of Directors, we believe his knowledge and experience will be very beneficial.

During the quarter, we announced the completion of our formal strategic review process and the optimization of our distribution network. The Action Plan announced July 11 encompasses 12 warehouse closures, the opening of two new distribution centers and $8 million investment in 12 distribution centers as well as the closure or divestitures of 48 stores.

It also in sales operational and profit improvement processes for both warehouses and stores to meet our expectation in terms of service level, pricing strategy, and operational margin. We expect to complete the Action Plan during the second half of 2014.

During the quarter, we closed 11 stores and one warehouse. We also completed the relocation of our national distribution center in the U.S., and eliminated 156 positions. This Action Plan will allow us to meet our goal to be an efficient and low cost distributor, offering the right product and delivering high quality service to our customers.

I remind you that we expect cost savings of approximately $10 million in 2013 from this Action Plan and an additional $15 million in 2014 and the full impact of [ph] $20 million (09:25) on an annual basis as of 2015.

In the second quarter, in addition to our efforts to improve sales, the fill rate and gross profits, we enhanced the stability and performance of the ERP system. The system will be deployed in two warehouses – two more warehouses in September and the remaining four warehouses will be migrated before the end of year end.

As mentioned in the first quarter results conference call, we have put in place many sales initiatives over the past months and the organic growth recorded in this quarter demonstrates their success. Our FinishMaster subsidiary achieved organic sales growth above the industry average, indicating an increase in our market share. In Canada, we announced the distribution agreement with Akzo Nobel for paint products, which expands our product offering in this segment and will generate additional sales opportunities for our independent jobbers.

Finally, we remain committed to enhancing shareholder value by improving our performance and our results. We will pursue goals to reduce debt, diversify our market, and increase our market share.

Finally, I would like to thank our shareholders for their patience and understanding over the last 12 months, which were especially difficult. We are convinced that we are now on the road to meet expectations and deliver improved results. We know we can count on a great team of associates and the support of our suppliers to implement the Action Plan and achieve our goals.

In closing, the Board of Directors declared a dividend C$0.13 per share in, payable on October 22, 2013, to shareholders of record on September 30, 2013. This completes our review for the second quarter of 2013. We'll now open the lines to your questions. As usual you can ask them either in French or in English and we'll answer you in the same language. Thank you very much. Operator, please.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone line. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from Benoit Poirier. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Yes, good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Benoit.

Yeah. The first question is more on the organic growth in the quarter, obviously positive on a consolidated basis. I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit about the fact that organic growth is still negative in Canada, and whether it seems you still underperform a little bit to peers performance in the quarter. Is there any explanation on the Canada front?

I will ask Gary O'Connor, our President and COO of Uni-Select, here in Canada to answer that one.

Hi, Benoit. I think there is a few unusual circumstances in the first half that kind of hurt our sales. Obviously, with returns and a few other situations. But, I will tell you that, overall, we seem to be picking up steam in the last couple of months. Last couple of months were very strong, and talking to our suppliers, they seem to believe that we were outpacing our competitors. So we feel confident that this was an abnormality in the first half and that things will be improving going forward.

Okay. Perfect. And is it fair also, Gary or Richard, to expect the growth really to increase in the second half this year, given that the last year was a tough comparison?

When you're talking, I think Gary was pretty clear that certainly in Canada he does expect to have a growth in the second half. My colleagues in the U.S. maybe, I can ask Brent Windom and then afterwards Steve Arndt to comment on their growth outlook for the second half of 2013. Brent?

Sure. Certainly, we see the second half remaining strong, consistent with our Q2 results. Two for one really are stability in our systems and our continued improvement in our field level to gaining the loyalty back from our customer base from last year. So we still feel very strong about the balance of the year.

Okay, very good. And just on the financial front Denis, I hear you that you still intend to reduce debt by $40 million by year end, is that right?

It's true. We already did – we already achieved Poirier, the reduction of $25 million. So there is a remaining $15 million that would be achieved during the second half of the year.

Okay, very good. And is there still some opportunities to do some M&A in terms of tuck-in acquisition that you intend to – is there some opportunities for you this year or probably will be more something next year once you will see an improvement of your financial position?

Well, I think the – your second statement is the right one. We are looking, we're totally right now focused on improving our results, lowering our debt. That's really what is the order of the day right now.

Okay. Thanks for the time.

Thank you. Our following question comes from [ph] Sara O'Brien (15:06). Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys.

Hello, Sara.

Can you comment on, just on the level of service expected in the U.S., now that you're closing down several stores and distribution centers. Do you expect any increase in cost to maintain that level of service that might impact the margin in the rest of the year?

No, quite frankly that would be the opposite with the closing of the 12 warehouses that by the way will not all happen in 2013, but lot of them will be in 2014 and the opening of two larger warehouses, we will actually regroup the activities of being a smaller warehouses that will have been closed and that will put us in a better position to lower the costs of serving those customers.

We've also done an in-depth analysis of where the locations had to be in order to balance the delivery cost and handling cost and occupancy cost. So, actually, in July, we announced plan to reduce cost by $30 million on an annual basis once fully implemented, and certainly a good portion of that is related to the network simplification.

Okay. And in some of the explanation for the organic growth and the EBITDA margin improvement, I think sales initiatives. Can you comment on what some of the initiatives are?

Not really. It's – as Brent mentioned, we certainly have improved the service level that we've been providing. You remember that last quarter, last year 2012, first quarter this year, we still had issues in terms of stability and we had told you that as we closed last year that the first quarter and second quarter would be difficult at that level. We improved our service levels significantly, and certainly with that, we're more dependable and we've lowered some of our cost at the same time due to that.

So, quite frankly, the – that's a good portion of that. We've had some initiatives to improve sales in certain product lines and so on, so forth. So that's really – and we've continued to recruit new customers. So that – that's all part of the overall elements.

Okay. Maybe a question on free cash flow. Just wondering if you expect some significant free cash flow in the back half of the year? I know you said you'll look to pay down debt in addition of $15 million, but can your free cash flow exceed that, or is that really everything goes back to paying down debt?

No. Once we have paid dividends and the capital expenditures that we will have – that really flows through – to the debt.

Okay. And just wondered on the U.S. operations, with your search for a President and if it was external and internal?

Yeah. It was external and internal. We wanted to make sure that we have the best and the strongest candidate to lead and make sure that we made the right decision, which I'm sure we did. It also allowed us to identify excellent talent that we'll be looking at adding to the team over the next few weeks, few months.

Okay. Thanks. That's it for me.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our following question comes from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, good afternoon gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Anthony.

Richard, when I look at your product mix, how has it evolved over, let's say, the last two years, branded versus private label? Any regional differences?

There has been an increase in private label offering. As you know, we have our Auto Extra private brand in the entry-level categories in many cases. We have introduced mid-grade private label called Worldparts, that is still just beginning to grow, that was part of the second quarter growth that we've had. So there has been some increase in those two private labels, if that's what you're asking me.

And this may bit more of a challenge for your members since differentiating feature is somewhat less than it used to be?

Not really, it's not a challenge, quite frankly those are very good quality products. And they really complete our offering very nicely, when you look at the – when you're looking at the mid-grade section, and when you look at the evolution of the age of the fleet and so on so forth, there is good demand for that type of products, and that allows us also to manage margins better.

Okay. And can you give us an update on foreign nameplate business, like has that been accelerating in terms of growth or helping you sustain positive growth?

That's one of the good elements that have contributed to our U.S. organic growth during the second quarter. We have – best, what we call the best select, Uni-Select customers taking on the [indiscernible] (20:43) and we've been very, very successful with that. Sales from our own stores to installers are up north of 5% also. So we are more and more successful in serving that segment of the fleet, which as you know, is a very – is a growing segment of the fleet.

Okay. And one last question. I noticed that you've been increasing the use of vendor financing, this is a trend, I guess, that will continue to increase. And how does that compare to your competitors?

It's a very good question. First of all, we believe – when we read the financial statements of our competitors, we believe that they covered 100% of their inventory and right at the beginning of, I would say 15 months ago, we used to be at 47% of our own inventory. We believe that by year end we're going to be close to 75% of our total inventory. So as we speak, we cover 68% and our goal is to reach 75% by year end.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our following question comes from [ph] Otto Cheung (21:59). Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Hi, good afternoon. Just had a follow-up question with respect to the margins. Could you provide a little color on some of the contribution of margins on your U.S. side? Maybe the differences between the FinishMaster versus your parts distribution business?

The answer to that question is very simple, no, I will not.

Okay. Is there one or the other that's growing a little bit better than the other?

Both are growing. So...

Okay. Okay, thank you. And my second question just relates to the ERP system. I mean, it appears that you guys are seeing some benefit from it this quarter already. Can you provide a little color on how the system – obviously, it's still rolling out, but are you still continuing to see the benefits as of now?

Yeah, obviously it's still very early on and it's always difficult to – at one point to break down on the improvements that we're seeing to the system itself or to the other initiatives, but yes there has been improvement certainly in some of our administrative costs that are coming from the system that we have been in a position to measure. I will tell you also that from a sales and gross margin management, the system gives us capabilities, certainly more visibility for our customers to the inventories that we have in various warehouses. I know in Canada this is something that has allowed us to generate some additional sales and generally speaking our visibility and information at a more granular level will help us manage the business and generate the benefit that we were seeing before.

Okay. Great. That's helpful. And that's all I had for now. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our following question comes from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Thanks. My question is regarding the debt to EBITDA. I mean, we see that the levels increased to 3.67 times and then you further – that you mentioned that there's a – you're expecting – or your goal is to get to 3.0. Just wanted to see what the timeframe was on that and I mean if there were any covenants – if there are any covenants for the balance of the year?

The – first of all, the covenants for the balance of the year are – the threshold is 3.5 for the third quarter and fourth quarter. And our goal is really with the improvement of EBITDA and the reduction of debt as I mentioned earlier. Our goal is really by year-end to be below the threshold of three times.

If I may add, Leon, just a little here. We were below 3.5 at the end of the second quarter for the purpose of the bank covenants.

Yeah.

The 3.6 something that you quoted is right, but this is really when you do it on the balance sheet. There is some differentiation in the consultation for the bank covenants, and we were below the 3.5 and that's – at the end of the second quarter and when Denis is talking about the three, he's referring to the bank covenants computation.

A good example of that, the difference between the accounting and the calculation and the bank calculation, as an example, come from the new equity income, equity income used to be part of EBITDA now is below the line. So on the, as per the bank covenant, we have to take that into account as part of the EBITDA.

Yeah. That was very helpful. Thanks. And second question is, you had mentioned in the strategic review press release and the conference call that you were expecting sales to decline by roughly $70 million on an annual basis. I would just like to get a bit of sense on what the timeline is on that, should we expect a big chunk of that immediately because of the closures and then maybe progressively less or just kind of what the timeline would be on that?

Most of it won't be around.

That's a good question. That's a little statistics. So we'll have to open the sheet to make sure we're at the right page and we give you the right information. Just so while we're on the topic of that, we told you that we have closed 11 stores in the second quarter of the year as we speak right now today 25 of the stores at the end of July have been closed in the U.S. as part of the plan.

Okay. The $70 million sales reduction, we are forecasting $20 million for this year and the remaining – when you analyze that, the remaining for next year. So, $50 million next year and $20 million this year.

Thank you. That's all from me.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Maybe the question is for Denis, when we look at your trade and other payables, I think last year you renewed some terms that were very favorable for Uni-Select. It ended with at about $350 million. So I was just wondering if we should expect that level to stay at kind of the – that high level going forward or we should expect the trade payables to come down as a result?

Okay. I mean, it's directly related also to the question that Tony asked earlier with respect to the vendor financing. What we've done, we've done two things in the last few quarters. So first of all we offer our suppliers either to be part of the vendor financing or to negotiate better payment terms. And, I would say that a lot of small suppliers have decided to provide us more – either 60 days or 90 days more than we used to. So that is a big portion of the increase of payables, and some other suppliers have decided to go with the vendor financing.

So just into the last six months, we increased the vendor financing by $34 million and our payables same – under the same former terms as compared to the new terms, if I can say that, we increased our payable by $10 million. So when you add the two, that's one of the reason why the payables are $45 million higher than what it used to be at the end of December.

And other than for seasonality, this is something that sustainable, should probably increase slightly between now and the end of the year again.

Exactly.

Other than for seasonality factors.

Okay. Very good color. And on the CapEx front, any update on what you expect to spend this year, in terms of CapEx?

Our goal, excluding the Action Plan that we put in place because we said that we will invest $60 million in the next 12 months, for the Action Plan excluding that because a portion of that, let's say probably close to $4 billion to $5 billion will happen this year. Excluding that our normal CapEx would be around $27 million now.

Okay. Perfect. And last one is it – could you provide any more color on the ramp up with the cross selling opportunities, the FinishMaster, I think it's something that you have implemented. And I just wanted to get an update on the ramp up though?

Basically, what I can tell you is that the sale of the paint to our independent jobber, it's basically on track. And it terms of selling the parts to the collision repair shop, this is something that has been delayed a bit because of the Action Plan that we're working on right now. We figured that we were better off to concentrate on that a opposed to the – to that portion of the cross selling.

Okay, perfect. Thanks again.

You're welcome.

Thank you. We have no further question registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting over back to Mr. Richard.

Thank you very much. Well, again, thank you for your presence on this call this afternoon. Thank you for your interest in our company. We look forward to basically talk to you again at the end of October with our third quarter results and – then until we look forward to continue on the road to improve the results. Thank you very much, and see you then. Bye, bye.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation.