Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Secretary & Vice President-Legal Affairs, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President & Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Martin Labrecque — Vice President-Finance & Control, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Eric Bussières — Incoming Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President & COO-Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Justin Wu — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, thank you for standing by. Your meeting is about to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2015 Third Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Louis Juneau. Please go ahead, Mr. Juneau.

Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Uni-Select's 2015 third quarter financial results conference call.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our latest Annual Report available on SEDAR, as well as in the press release issued yesterday.

Joining me this afternoon are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; Steve Arndt, President and COO, FinishMaster; Martin Labrecque, Vice President-Finance and Control; as well as Eric Bussière, CFO-appointee, commencing on November 30, 2015.

I will first turn the call over to Henry, who will outline the key highlights of the last quarter and present some of Uni-Select's ongoing operational priorities. Martin will then discuss a few important financial items for Q3. After their presentation, we will open up the call to questions. Henry?

Thank you, Louis, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. Let me start off by saying how pleased I am with our Q3 results and particularly delighted to see the balanced contribution of both our groups, Automotive Canada and FinishMaster, to our growth.

On a consolidated basis, sales grew 4% organically in the third quarter, a performance mainly driven by the success of our ongoing customer recruitment efforts by the paint and related products teams, as well as the enhanced sales focus and our specific commitment to further improve fill rates in the automotive product segment. We're also sparing no efforts to always improve our delivery times and the quality of our customer services across both groups, sharpening our competitive edge in doing so.

The third quarter also marked the first complete three-month period with results that entirely exclude the sold Uni-Select USA, Inc. and Beck/Arnley Worldparts activities.

Accordingly, we are starting to see the emergence of Uni-Select's new profitability profile. In Q3, our adjusted EBITDA margin reached a record of 9.4%, up 2.6 points from last year. Net earnings were up 6.1% at $15.7 million, while net earnings per share reached $0.73, up from $0.70 last year. Once converted to Canadian dollars, adjusted earnings at $0.73 per share reached CAD 0.95 for the third quarter. That is up 18.8% compared to CAD 0.80 in 2014.

In Canadian automotive, organic sales grew by 4.4% in the third quarter. Our efforts enhancing our product offering, as well as a success of the ongoing strategy to improve fill rates, to which I referred to a moment ago, are both enhancing the quality of our customer service in a very measureable way. The sales of our paint and related products segment grew 8.8% to $162 million, up 3.8% organically.

Segment EBITDA, which compares apples-to-apples in the case of FinishMaster, reached $18.3 million, up 15.1% versus last year. This solid performance is mainly the result of purchases made ahead of price increases, improved fixed expenses coverage in relation to organic growth and, of course, the integration of our recent accretive business acquisitions.

Beyond organic growth, we have also completed several accretive acquisitions over the course of Q3 and shortly after the quarter-end. As we work hard to ensure their effective integration, the newly acquired entities will enable us to strengthen our leader position from coast to coast, both in Canada and in the U.S.

In the automotive parts segment, we completed the acquisition of the assets of C.B. Hoare Automotive Parts and Duncan Auto Parts, adding to the Uni-Select two terrific businesses with a solid reputation in their respective markets. These five locations are now part of the Uni-Select Canada's Corporate Store Group.

In the paints and related products segment, we announced the acquisition of the assets of Painter Supply Company in Colorado. This acquisition helps extend FinishMaster's service capability and customer density in the Denver and Fort Collins metropolitan areas and expanded our operations in the important industrial and architectural segments.

In Q3, we also expanded our operations in the states of California and Wisconsin. We announced the acquisition by FinishMaster of the assets of Auto Paint Specialists, a renowned aftermarket distributor in Wisconsin. We also acquired the assets of Dan's Distributing in Northern California in addition to opening our first FinishMaster branch just outside Seattle in Washington State. This was a greenfield location.

After the quarter-end, we announced two strategic acquisitions in the province of Québec, with the acquisition of the remaining 50% equity interest in Pièces d'Autos La Malbaie and all of the assets of Pièces d'Autos AFCAR. These acquisitions are building solid foundations to pursue the expansion of our corporate stores network both in Québec and across Canada.

All these acquisitions are in perfect alignment with our firm commitment to further consolidate our leadership in automotive products distribution in Canada and in the paints and related products industry in the United States.

Before I conclude my remarks and discuss our ambitions for a strong finish to the year, let me now turn the call over to Martin Labrecque. Martin?

Thank you, Henry. Good afternoon, everyone. Before anything, I would like to remind you again that as a result of the closing of the sales transaction on June 1, the third quarter results presented today and discussed on this call excludes the results of Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts both on a consolidated basis and within the automotive segment, but are compared against corresponding third quarter of 2014, which includes these assets in full. The same holds true for the first five months of our year-to-date results.

Another important factor to consider when analyzing our results is that further weakening of the Canadian dollar. As it has been the case for a few quarters in a row now, the declining dollar have continued to be an important factor when comparing our results year-over-year. In this quarter alone, the lower Canadian dollar accounted for 17.5% of sales decline in the automotive sector. This being said, let me remind you that currency fluctuations do not have significant impact on cash flow provision.

We started Q3 that we, having applied the transactions, net cash towards our outstanding debt. Over the course of the quarter, net cash was mostly used for business acquisition, invest/manage inventory, share repurchase through our NCIB program, and payments to Uni-Select USA suppliers in relation to the vendor financing program.

As of September 30, the corporation had $50 million in cash and $400 million in available credit facility. This provides Uni-Select with the necessary latitude to pursue its growth effort by actively seeking business acquisition opportunities.

Now, entering in the last quarter of fiscal 2015, we reiterate further indications that we are on target to meet or exceed sales forecast of $1.1 billion on an annualized basis, of which approximately 60% should be under FinishMaster; and adjusted EBITDA in the range of 7.5% to 8.5% of sales. As a reminder, the second and the third quarters are traditionally our largest ones in the year, and given our fixed cost structure, caution should be used in extrapolating our Q3 EBITDA margin over a full year.

Finally, over the course of the third quarter, we also announced that the board of directors of Uni-Select approved the renewal of our normal course issuer bid to repurchase some of its outstanding common share for a period of 12 months ending August 16, 2016. Going forward, the corporation is in good position to pursue its growth strategy and to seize every business opportunity that arises.

This completes my financial review, so back to you, Henry.

Thank you very much. Before I conclude my remarks and talk about the future, I wish to extend our recognition to you, Martin, for your hard work during the transitional period especially at a time of significant M&A activity. We look forward to your continued collaboration as our VP, Finance and Control. We are also welcoming our new colleague, Eric Bussières, who will be joining Uni-Select as Chief Financial Officer at the end of November. Eric, would you like to say a few words?

Thank you, Henry. Good afternoon, everyone. I would like to express my gratitude to Uni-Select for giving me the opportunity to join your leadership team. I'm excited by the prospect of actively contributing to the growth strategy of Uni-Select and look forward leveraging my experience by joining the strong management team. Back to you, Henry.

Thanks, Eric. As we now turn to the fourth quarter and beyond, we reaffirm our strong commitment in our two-pronged growth strategy: a healthy combination of organic and accretive acquisition-driven growth. Again, just to reiterate, the forecast adjusted EBITDA in the range of 7.5% to 8.5%. The second and third quarters are traditionally our largest ones.

Now above all, we are more than ever committed to building a strong customer-centric culture throughout all of our units that will drive us to achieve our customer recruitment goals quarter-after-quarter. Creating maximum value for our customers remain the top priority that drive each and every decision at Uni-Select.

In closing, I'm pleased to announce that our board of directors has approved earlier today another quarterly dividend of CAD 0.16. This decision reflects the board's and management's ongoing commitment and level of confidence in our future.

Thank you and we are now ready to answer your questions. Sara, could you open the lines up for questions, please?

Certainly. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] There will be a brief pause while the participants register for questions. Thanks for your patience. The first question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen, and congratulations on an excellent quarter. Henry, could you give us some perspectives on terms of the U.S. operations at FinishMaster, like what are some of the growth opportunities ex acquisitions? And I'd also like to get some more color on your potential to further enhance margins.

Okay. A couple of questions there, Tony. So, the first one was with regards to FinishMaster and the growth, probably the organic growth. And Steve Arndt is here, so maybe, Steve, can I turn this one over to you?

You sure can. We have a very robust pipeline of traditional accounts to help continue the growth that we have seen. We are also very well-positioned in the MSO segment to continue to gain business as that part of the business consolidates.

Okay. And then in terms of enhancing margins, can we see some more upside on that?

Yeah. I think we've given a guidance on both businesses. I think we're going to play a little bit of [ph] Switzerland (13:02) here. [ph] And you can prove me wrong, (13:03) quite frankly, the first and second quarters, so we're working very, very hard on the margins. As you saw in the first quarter, we've kind of given you kind of a range of where we think we're going to be. We've exceeded that the last couple of quarters.

So, I think we're still guiding to the same sort of range today. I think that would be fair. And I think overall, you've seen improved margins both at FinishMaster and also at Automotive Canada. And quite frankly, this is the first time we have seen the Canadian EBITDA margin disclosed as a discrete figure. But our ambition is obviously to continue to enhance margins wherever is possible.

Okay. Now, I guess a question for Steve, a follow-up. You noted that during the quarter, you did have unfavorable product mix that impacted FinishMaster. How much of your business stems from MSOs and where do you see that number evolving to over the next few years?

A significant portion of our business comes from the MSO segment. Where it really ends is not a good prediction right now depending on how far the consolidation goes. We know that there's some continued growth in that which we should experience the [ph] sales side of it, (14:20) but we'll see some continued unfavorable mix there because of the lower margins that the MSOs do offer us. So, there'll be some continued growth there, but should start seeing a flattening over the next few years, I would say.

To be very clear, Tony, we've said that Steve and the team have done a very, very good job at really putting together a model to service those MSOs that is providing us with an operating margin that's effectively a similar operating margin to our traditional business. So, I think we've got a very good operating model there to adjust to that growth. So, if the MSOs continue to grow and we suspect they will gain some more share over the coming months and years. Where that ends, as he says, we don't know. But I think we're well-prepared to have that addressed and we've got a great model to attract, quite frankly, the MSOs as they grow.

And then really one more question. With reference to organic growth, can you give us some of your outlook? And what are going to be the key drivers or potential catalysts down the road?

Well, I think that that's a question that both Gary and Steve can answer. But what we're expecting and what we're looking at right now is sort of, at this point, low singles, low to mid singles for both businesses. We've had that kind of experience here in Q3, 3.8% in FinishMaster, 4.4% in Canadian Automotive, and I think that's sort of normalized range. But if you guys – Gary, you want to give some color on the Canadian business?

There's no doubt that we're redeploying ourselves after putting – we've got new people who are very motivated or who'll be helping our sales effort. We've improved our fill rates to our customers, which obviously gives us a lift. And we're working with our product mix and offering to really satisfy our needs for our customers. So, a lot of different aspects to help our growth continue.

Okay. And, Gary, have you – on a regional outlook, like, how does Western Canada look and how's particularly Alberta doing?

There's no doubt Alberta is softer than the rest of Canada. It's been affected, most of all in the oil patches. But I mean, in the larger metropolitan areas, I mean, people are getting their cars fixed and it's somewhat business as usual, although a little softer, but nothing drastic. And we firmly believe that we're highly invested in those parts of the world and it will improve. But it is a tougher marketplace right now.

Great. Well, thank you very much, gentlemen.

Great. Thanks, Tony.

Thank you. The next question is from Justin Wu. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon. My first question on the EBITDA margin, which was quite robust on the parts side at around 8%, and I guess I was just wondering how much seasonality played into how the margin performance was in the quarter, noting that you guys already said that Q2 and Q3 tends to be a seasonally strong quarter. And maybe if you can elaborate on some of the other kind of factors that contributed, too, to that kind of performance?

I think a couple of things. And then, Martin or Gary, please jump in. At the end of the day, this is the first time you've actually seen our EBITDA margin in the automotive parts segment in Canada disclosed. So, I think we've seen improvement year-over-year for sure. And without a doubt, and I think we hopefully made it very clear in the call today, Q2 and Q3 are our strongest quarters, particularly in this business but also to maybe a slightly lesser degree in the paint and related products side, but this is certainly, as we come in the fourth quarter, the softest quarter if you look at seasonality in the FinishMaster business.

I think Gary and his team has done a very, very good job of pulling all levers in terms of being able to work on their margin, and that's obviously making sure our buying conditions are appropriate, taking any opportunity to look at price increases that have been happening for the first time in a number of years in the Canadian automotive parts business, and we'll make sure we've taken every opportunity to buy ahead of those. Now, given the size of our inventory, we don't see the immediate impact in that, but I think over time that's been a contributing factor.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. And you've mentioned earlier that on the FinishMaster side, you guys took advantage of, I guess, advantageous purchases, material purchases. Can you elaborate on how much that helped margin in the quarter and when you anticipate those positive effects to kind of wear off or if they will?

That's just something – that's just normal course business for us, so we've chunked it out there. But as you can imagine, there's annual price increases in that business. That is something historically we have seen happen every single year, and that will be correlated with the manufacturers' price increases.

We're in a position right now financially that if we have an opportunity when a manufacturer raises prices, if we can take the opportunity to buy ahead on fast-moving items, we clearly will. So, we don't have a breakdown of how much that contributed specifically, but you'll know that if we had that opportunity ahead of price increases, we'll certainly do that.

Okay. And just last thing just in terms of seasonality, you guys had touched upon the seasonality. I mean, with the divestment of the U.S. businesses, I guess, is it – maybe is it safe to presume that seasonality has increased versus in the past? And maybe if you can give us a sense of how we should see the seasonality in both of the different segments.

I mean, I... [ph]

Just maybe a few points in (20:13) Q1, I guess.

Yeah. I mean, seasonality, I mean, for Canada, I mean, we have winter and we sell a different mix of products at different points of the different parts of the year which sometimes affects our margins. There's no doubt in the summertime, we sell more higher-margin products and it usually affects our sales. But although it affects our sales, it's not a huge, huge part of our world.

No, in fact, I think the U.S. auto parts business had the same seasonality in Canada than us. So on a – with the fact that Canada or U.S. is now not a part of our business, I don't think our seasonality has been adjusted. And I think as we've said for FinishMaster, there's some seasonality that does come into play. It's not as sort of dramatic, but I think it probably hits us more related to things like the holiday season between Thanksgiving and Christmas in that period as opposed to sort of kind of spread evenly over the four seasons, if you will.

Okay. So for the paint business, Q4 is typically a seasonally weakest quarter while in the Canadian part side, Q1 is – is that fair?

Yeah.

Probably.

Yeah.

Yeah.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon. Can you...

Hi, Sara.

Hi. Just going back to the stepped-up profitability on price increases, I just wonder how much of that is driven by FX this year from suppliers and just wondering how much of that might be repeatable in the future, understanding that, usually, it's an annual thing or at least historically it was, just wondered how much of those prices increases would be FX related.

Right. I think there's two components. The FinishMaster business, it has business-oriented annual increases that come on sort of a traditional basis. So, I think that's, obviously, not related to FX at all. It's just the industry.

The Canadian side, I think as we've disclosed before, we've not seen price increases in the Canadian market because of the exchange going to the opposite direction over the last few years. This is the first year we've seen those price increases as they relate to exchange rates.

I think what we've seen is some manufacturers come out a couple of times this year, some once, some twice and, Gary, jump in. Anytime there's an opportunity, we'll certainly look at that in line with how much they'll allow us to buy because they're not always enthusiastic about us sort of buying ahead of those price increases because it also impacts their level of profitability, given the exchange rate fluctuation this year. That'd be...

Okay.

Yeah, that'd be fair. And there's probably companies, so there is some actual price increases over and above the FX in Canada that we've seen this year to a certain extent. But FX is the driver, for sure.

Okay. When you talk about fill rates and improvements seen in Canada, can you quantify? I mean, is there sort of like a percentage ratio fill rate that you've achieved now and how much more room is there to go on that?

We don't break that out separately. That's not something we do. I think the fundamental issue is here. When a car is on the hoist in this business, and we're talking about the automotive business right at the moment, when they need a part, either you have it or you don't. You're not going to get that business the next day or the next week. So, for us, we've been highly focused on making sure those parts are in stock in our DCs and available for our jobbers at all times.

It's very, very tangible in terms of the increase in our fill rates. That jumped up a full point over prior year. So, we haven't actually looked at what that directly correlates to, but we know full well from feedback from our customers that our fill rates are contributing to their sales.

Okay. And then maybe just some commentary on the strategy for corporate stores in Canada, wondered how the team is shaping up for that and also what, well, I guess, merchant member reactions have been thus far.

A – [013VQ1-M Gary O'Connor]>: Well, I mean, we're building up our team, our capabilities. We've hired people as early as this week. So, we're getting well-organized, so we're really pleased with the progress we've made. As for our other members, I think they understand what we're doing, and I think they're supportive of our efforts. They know that we need to grow to keep our buying conditions and help them support their business in the future. So, I think it's going to be very complementary.

Sara, one important hire that I do want to highlight, and this is something that applies to both businesses, quite frankly, is that as we continue to pursue focus on M&A, we are highly focused on making sure we can integrate these and bring in the synergies in a timely fashion.

So, we've hired, as recently as this week, as Gary says, a leader – a vice president responsible for the integration of our acquisitions, which are largely corporate stores today within the Canadian business. So that, for us, is very exciting contribution and that will make a big difference moving forward.

Steve has also aligned a team within the FinishMaster business that is focusing on the integration of those acquired companies. So, in both cases, we have an acute focus on making sure we are driving the synergies and driving the integration of those businesses into the store groups.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good afternoon, gentlemen, and congratulations for the good quarter. Just to come back on the profitable deal, I was wondering if you could provide more color on the implied consolidated margin for Q4. On the pro forma basis, you're still targeting 7.5% to 8.5% for the year. But given what you've reported in the first nine months, I was wondering whether you were very, very conservative or whether we should expect a big decline in the margin in Q4 because of this seasonality.

Benoit, if I may, as you have said, because of this seasonality, we should expect to be on the lower range of the guidance for the fourth quarter.

Okay. So, which means that low range 7.5% on a consolidated basis for Q4 is kind of a good number.

The 7.5% to 8.5% is an annualized number. So, it could be, in fact, lower in the fourth quarter given the higher elements in Q2 and Q3. So, we don't know what – we haven't forecasted a specific number for fourth quarter. We're not going to share it anyways. But it could be lower than the 7.5%. That's an annual range, right?

Okay. And maybe if I can frame it differently, what would be the pro forma number for the first nine months in terms of consolidated EBITDA margin?

We haven't done that calculation, Benoit.

Okay. Okay.

We're giving you the first glimpse in here for the third quarter.

Yeah, no, that's okay. And just for 2016, I understand it's still early, but what are the pluses and minus and how much can you drive upward the margins for 2016 and what are the key elements to consider?

I think, Benoit, we're on the exact same plan we just discussed. We're on the kind of an annualized plan of 7.5% to 8.5%, and obviously, we're all working very, very hard to continue to increase that range. When we know more, we'll certainly provide more.

But the game plan is exactly what we've discussed. It's a combination of both that organic growth we've discussed here today and making some very intelligent and accretive select acquisitions in both businesses. So, that game plan is – that is our game plan and that is not changing for 2016.

Okay. And just maybe in terms of M&A, could you provide some color about your pipeline right now, what you see?

You know what, the high-level answer to this is in both businesses, I'm very excited about the opportunities that exist. We believe there's consolidation happening in both fronts. So, in the Canadian side, the Canadian jobber business today, they have succession issues. And I'm kind of reiterating this a lot because this is – the game plan doesn't change, quite frankly. We know these jobbers are consolidating. We have a strong pipeline in Canada, and we're pretty comfortable that over the number of – next few months and the next few years, quite frankly, we'll have more and more opportunities to build out that corporate store network. [ph] And in any of the (29:07) jobbers that we choose to share with our current member group, we have a great runway there.

And equally so for Steve, that consolidation is continuing and probably accelerating in the U.S. space. And we see that as a continued opportunity, and I don't think Steve has any worry about the amount of work he has to do in this area for the next year.

Okay. And any other cash deployment opportunities beside M&A, Henry?

No. We're going to continue to invest in the business. This will be the [indiscernible] (29:42) We've kind of put in the level of guidance of, call it, approximately $20 million as an ongoing basis. But as we continue to do things like brand our stores and invest in the business, they'll be kind of something in that range is how we see it.

Okay. And last question, could you maybe give us an update on the private label? I mean, you're introducing a new line in the midmarket, and it seems very nice growth potential. So, if you could provide some color, that would be great.

Oh, yeah. In Canada, we did that, we opened a warehouse in January. So, I mean, the product growth has done really well and it's more the contributing factor than [indiscernible] (30:26) improved margins that you've been seeing. So, it's still a young brand and it's still growing and there's still more opportunities from a margin and from a selling perspective. So, we're really pleased what's happened so far.

Okay. Congratulations. Thanks for the time.

Thanks, Benoit.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon. Are you guys able to just provide us with what the year-to-date margin was in the Canada parts business?

We haven't disclosed that. That's something that we have not broken out at all. We kind of said that we're going to leave that to Q3 as where we are today, and it becomes sort of clearly evident sort of now. And I think you can look at our discussion here and say Q2 and Q3 are the big ones, and you can probably take it from there.

I'll try to give you as many hints as I could, probably not going to be in the low end of the range in the fourth quarter. We're going to push for that, but it is an annualized number.

Okay. And then can you give some idea of the direction of the Canada margin on a year-on-year basis?

Well, we've seen actually improvements, so that's a good new story. And both businesses are seeing evident margin improvements. Certainly, they're both headed in the right direction and we're highly focused on that as a strategy. It's always a balance when we're – we make sure we balance it with the growth investments and the focus on the business. But we're both – both businesses are improving their margins, for sure.

Okay. And then just circling back on the price increases, given some of the ongoing depreciation in the Canadian dollar, should we anticipate these price increases to continue at least through, call it, over the next six months to nine months?

I think so. I think we're starting to see some already being announced ahead of time. So, yeah, I mean, it's probably a little more modest than last year, but we feel confident that we'll see some going forward.

Well, I mean, I think the math says that given the huge swing in the exchange rate, there's no way that those manufacturers were able to absorb all of that in kind of one – it wasn't reflected in one price increase. So, there's probably more to come, but we just don't know that. I mean, for us, it's not our goal. It's the manufacturer's goal. We're the distributor, so we get it when we get it.

And historically, I mean, the – it's generally just been a pass-through for you guys as you get these price increases?

Yes, it has.

Okay. And then just in terms of some of the M&A numbers, in Canada, auto parts, M&A was a $4.9 million contribution to the quarter. Given everything that you've completed at this point in time, should we expect – can you give a sense as to what is the M&A, the top-line contribution from the M&A that we should expect over, say, the next 12 months?

I haven't annualized that amount with me.

We just haven't disclosed that. So, I mean, we've intentionally not put out numbers in every single press release for every single acquisition to make this a bit of a math contest. So, I think when you get to these ones, these are nice tuck-in acquisitions and they do vary in size significantly. So, we're probably not going to be disclosing anything unless it's truly very material, then we'll obviously will be in disclosure.

And a lot of us are existing customers also.

Right.

You don't get the full lift on the sales price.

Okay. And maybe just the tax rate, can you confirm what sort of tax rate we should be using in 2016?

I think 33% still a good rate.

33%, okay. That's it. Thanks.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you. The next question is from [ph] Alexander Zykov. (34:41) Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, Henry. Congratulations to you and the team on a great performance. My question is, you clearly have built a lot of talent on the M&A front. Just in terms of annual revenue that you think you have capacity to absorb, what would be the rough number in what you can acquire over 12 months and integrating to your business?

You know what, it's a good question, [ph] Alex. (35:05) We have not sort of put limits on that right now. I think at this point, we are not limited by the pace we're on right now. And we have actually that pace accelerating from where it is today, and we don't have any concern with that. And certainly, if we get to a point where everybody wants to close on a certain day, that would be a challenge for us and we're not there yet. So, I think we have lots of runways installed to accelerate those acquisitions and absorb them into the network. And we're always looking for larger deals, too.

And maybe just on that point, there are a few sort of – here in Ontario, there are few targets of larger size. Can you talk a little bit where you are in the process? Are you sort of in the eight, seventh inning in terms of doing something bigger? I know the timing is very difficult to forecast, but where are you along in the process to something bigger?

Yeah, again, we haven't disclosed any of that stuff up for obvious reasons, but we've got a pipeline in both Canada and the U.S. of nice targets. And they're geographically spread all over the U.S.A. and they're geographically spread all over Canada. So, we haven't got a concentration in one market or another, quite frankly.

Our strategy in FinishMaster is to build out our geography and fill in the gaps that we need and build density in those core markets. So I think you'll see us go down that exact runway to make sure we're focused on it. And the Canadian event is really about what store groups do come available, and that's something that is not something we can predict anytime in advance.

So, the only thing I can tell you is make sure that we are active in the marketplace. So when properties do come available and they're the right fit, they're the right valuation, we're being very responsible in terms of what we're going to do and what we're going to pay for those properties. We'll be in the game.

Got it. All right. Thanks. Congratulations again.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have no further questions registered at this time. I will now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Buckley.

Great. Thanks, everyone. I really appreciate you attending. I really enjoyed the questions. Thank you very much for joining us this afternoon. We look forward to speaking to you again in February. So, have a great rest of your day. Thank you.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.