Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Eric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steven J. Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Brent Windom — President and Chief Operating Officer, Canadian Automotive Group
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Elizabeth Johnston — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities
A. Carolina Jolly — Analyst, Gabelli & Co

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jessa, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Uni-Select, Inc. 2017 Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Louis Juneau, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Jessa. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for the Uni-Select fourth quarter and year-end conference call. Presenting this morning are Henry Buckley, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Eric Bussières, Chief Financial Officer. Following their comments, we will open the call for questions.

Joining us today for your questions are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster U.S.A.; Brent Windom, President and COO of Automotive Canada; and Peter Sephton, President and CEO of The Parts Alliance.

Please note that all documents referred to in today's conference call, including this webcast presentation, can be found on our website at uniselect.com in the Investors section. As noted on slide 2, I would like to remind you about the caution regarding forward-looking statements which is applied to our presentation and comments. All amounts are in U.S. dollars, except as otherwise specified. Also note that we will refer to certain indicators that are non-IFRS measures such as adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EPS and free cash flow. These measures are defined and reconciled to the most comparable IFRS measured in our MD&A.

With that, let me turn the call over to Henry.

Great. Thank you, Louis. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Please turn to page 3. Our fourth quarter results were mixed with our Canadian and UK operations performing well. As expected, our U.S. segment continued to work through some challenges. On a consolidated basis, sales reached $415 million, up 42.6% over last year and adjusted EBITDA was up 10.4% to $28 million or a margin of 6.7%. During the quarter, we acquired three stores, opened two greenfield stores and consolidated two stores.

Now, please turn to page 4 for details on FinishMaster U.S. Our fourth quarter results were disappointing. While the quarter started out well, the month of December was slower than usual and below our expectations. Sales were up 10.1% to $199 million, supported by business acquisitions, while organic growth was negative 2.1%, of which 1.5% was related to the product line changeover.

In addition, EBITDA margin decreased 9.9%, impacted mainly by lower special buys, customer mix, higher medical benefits, as well as worker's compensation. Notwithstanding this, in the quarter, we consolidated two stores and continued to focus on driving profitable growth with specific initiatives to achieve long-term objectives and counterbalance some of our business challenges. We continue to drive our refinished business with both traditional and MSO customers while executing on our strategy to expand further into the Industrial Coatings business. We are seeing early signs of success for this initiative as we have secured some local and national accounts. We also focused on our 20/20 initiatives in order to drive cost efficiencies going forward.

For the year, we increased sales 8.2% to $815 million and had a negative organic growth of 6.9%, of which 6.1% was linked to the product line changeover. We also acquired 18 stores, consolidated 13 stores and opened up three greenfield stores. We, therefore, finished the year with 212 stores.

This past year was very challenging for FinishMaster considering the product line changeover. But with this issue mainly behind us, we're confident we can progressively return to positive organic growth as we move through the year.

Now turning to Canada on page 5, our Canadian operations performed really well. Our fourth quarter sales were up 11.6% to $123 million, supported by 1.5% organic growth from the Canadian independent customers and corporate stores or 5.9% after adjusting for the loss of one independent member at the beginning of the year.

Our underlying organic growth is strong across all regions. Our EBITDA margin reached 5.1% in line with last year. In the quarter, we continue the successful execution of our strategy. We acquired one business with three stores, pursued the rollout of the BUMPER TO BUMPER and FinishMaster brands as well as the deployment of our point of sale system, PartsWatch.

We focused on improving our productivity and efficiency through the launch of various initiatives as part of the 2020 initiative. For the year, we're very proud of our results in Canada. Sales were up 9.1% to $485 million supported by 3.9% organic growth. We also acquired 10 stores, consolidated one store and opened up one greenfield store, finishing the year with 64 stores in total. Our Canadian team continues to be focused on building the foundation for the long-term and is continually developing and building talent to support our growth.

Now turning to our Parts Alliance UK segment on page 6. This was the first full quarter results for this segment of our business, our newly acquired UK operations did better than expected in a seasonally slow quarter. They reported sales of $93 million with the robust organic growth of 3.7% on a stand-alone basis, and their EBITDA was accretive on a consolidated basis. The integration with Uni-Select is progressing very well and is greatly facilitated by our strong cultural fit and team member engagement.

In the quarter, we worked on securing supplier synergies, focused on integrating recent acquisitions in the network and continued rolling out our telephony solution, catalogue and performance management systems. We also strengthened our management team with internal promotions and continue to find other opportunities for efficiency, cost control, and productivity through our 2020 initiative.

With all this going on, we also managed to open up two greenfield stores with a 7% market share in a fragmented market. This segment provides a significant runway for profitable growth.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to Eric for the financial review.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. As a reminder Uni-Sélect results are impacted by seasonality. More specifically, our Canadian operations typically have a softer first and fourth quarter. As a result, margin in the second and third quarter tends to be at least 200 basis points higher than the first and the fourth quarter. Similarly, our UK operations typically have a softer third and fourth quarter. Consequently, margin of the first half of the year tends to be at least 200 basis points higher than the back half of the year.

As it relates to FinishMaster, the first and fourth quarter tends to be softer; and the third quarter, the strongest. It is important to take this seasonality into account when analyzing our results. Let me begin with our fourth quarter results on page eight, consolidated sales for the fourth quarter reached $415 million, a 43% increase as compared to the $291 million last year. This increase was primarily driven by acquisition, notably The Parts Alliance. Excluding the product line change over in the U.S. and the loss of independent member at Canada at the beginning of the year, organic growth would have been approximately 1.9% on a consolidated basis.

The Canadian Automotive segment reported sales of $123 million, an 11.6% increase versus $110 million for the same period last year. This increase was primarily driven by recent business acquisitions, a favorable foreign exchange impact and positive organic growth of 1.5% or 5.9%, including the impact from the loss of the independent customer at the beginning of the year.

FinishMaster U.S. segment reported sales of $199 million, a 10% increase versus $181 million from the same period last year. This increase was primarily driven by acquisition and was partly offset by the negative organic growth of 2.1%, of which 1.5% was related to the product line changeover.

The Parts Alliance UK segment reported its first full quarter since we acquired them in August. Recall that they're two slowest month of the year are August and December. They reported sales of $93 million, which was actually better than what we had expected. Their results include an acquisition close in September and two greenfields opening in October.

Please turn to page nine. Our fourth quarter consolidated EBITDA was $25.9 million versus $24.6 million for the same period last year. Adjusted EBITDA reached $28 million or a margin of 6.7%, compared to $25.4 million or a margin of 8.7% last year. While adjusted EBITDA increased on an absolute basis versus last year, the margin decreased by 200 basis points. In fact, 80 basis points of the decrease is explained by The Parts Alliance UK segment, which had a lower margin than our consolidated margin. The balance is explained mostly by the special buys and the evolving customer mix at FinishMaster.

Please turn to page 10. In order to improve or maintain our adjusted EBITDA margin, as well as mentioned last quarter, we launched our 20/20 initiative. Recall that this initiative is expected to save $20 million of annualized operating cost by the end of 2020. The focus is on reducing our cost to serve by accelerating the capture of certain synergies linked to the various acquisitions, improve productivity level, and bring more variability into our cost structure. To date, we have identified approximately 60% of our target with specifically measurable activities and we expect this number to reach 70% by the end of 2018.

As a reminder, the Canadian Automotive Group and FinishMaster will be tracking those initiatives against the 2017 second quarter average operating cost, while The Parts Alliance UK will be tracking the savings against the third quarter of 2017. Since the beginning of the program, we realized approximately 50% of the annualized run rate savings from those various initiatives.

Please turn to page 11. Net earnings for the quarter reached $8.7 million or $0.21 per share versus $12.7 million or $0.30 per share last year. This decrease was mainly the result of higher financial expense and depreciation related to the recent business acquisition coupled with $2.1 billion of charges related to The Parts Alliance acquisition. These factors were partly compensated by the income tax rate, which decreased from 30.2% to 19.9% in the quarter, mainly due to a 2016 tax true-up recorded in 2017 and the tax savings in the U.S. following the reduction of the federal tax rate. Adjusted net earnings reached $11.6 million or $0.27 per share versus $13.1 million or $0.31 per share last year.

Now, let's turn to our quarterly cash flow on page 12. We generated $46 million of cash flow from operating activities versus $55 million for the same period last year. This variation was driven by lower activity in the vendor financing program and a higher interest payment. As a result, we generated lower free cash flow for the quarter at $17 million as compared to $21 million last year. We used $7 million of the cash for acquisition, $5 million for CapEx and $3 million for dividends.

Please now turn to page 13. At the end of the year, our outstanding total net debt stood at $418 million as compared to $439 million at the end of the last quarter, a reduction of $21 million. The funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio stood at 3.56 times at the end of December. Pro forma for The Parts Alliance acquisition, the ratio would be 3.04 times compared to 3.14 times at the end of Q3. I would like to point out that this reduction was achieved even with the tuck-in acquisition that was closed and funded during the fourth quarter. Having said that, we expect leverage to go back up in the first quarter due to seasonality and timing of certain cash flow as experienced in the prior years.

At the end of the quarter, we had $193 million available on our credit facility. Let me now provide a quick overview of 2017 results on page 14. Consolidated sales for 2017 increased by 21% to $1.4 billion, primarily driven by acquisitions. Excluding the product line changeover, the hurricane in the U.S. and the loss of an independent member in Canada at the beginning of the year, our organic growth would have been approximately 2.4%. EBITDA for the year reached $111 million as compared to $107 million last year.

Adjusted EBITDA increased by 9.2% to $118 million or 8.1% of sales as compared to $108 million or 9% of sales last year. Net earnings for the year reached $44.6 million or $1.06 per share as compared to $58.3 million or $1.37 per share. Adjusted net earnings reached $55 million or $1.30 per share versus $59 million or $1.39 per share last year.

Now, let's turn to our annual cash flow on page 15. We generated $124 million of cash flow from operating activities versus $134 million for the same period last year. This decrease was driven by the same factor as in the fourth quarter in addition to higher income tax payment and acquisition costs relating to The Parts Alliance.

We generated lower free cash flow for the year at $96 million as compared $107 million last year, driven by lower cash from operating activities, coupled with higher CapEx. We used $362 million of cash for acquisition, $14 million for CapEx, and $12 million for dividends.

This completes my financial review. I now turn the call over to, Henry.

Great. Thank you, Eric. Before we open up the line for questions, we'd like to provide some guidance on certain items for 2018. For the year 2018, on a consolidated basis, we anticipate a positive organic sales growth of between 2.25% to 4%. We anticipate a consolidated adjusted EBITDA margin of between 7.2% to 8.2%. We expect investments to be between $26 million and $29 million for vehicle fleet, hardware equipment, software and other. This guidance is based on a set of assumptions we've made, the complete list of these assumptions is described in our press release.

In terms of the organic growth, expectations by business, at FinishMaster, we expect organic sales to grow progressively through the year and average between 2% and 4% for the year. For the Canadian Automotive Group, we expect organic sales to grow between 2.5% and 4%. For The Parts Alliance UK segment, we expect organic sales to be between 3% and 4%. We continue to see many opportunities to add select acquisitions and open up additional greenfields. We have a solid track record of bringing greenfields to profitability in a reasonable timeframe, noting that greenfield stores put temporary pressure on our margins.

Finally, we would also like to mention that following the U.S. Tax Reform, we are anticipating a favorable impact on our tax rate going forward from about 38% to approximately 24.5%, including state taxes. On a consolidated basis, we expect our effective tax rate to be approximately 22% to 24%.

To conclude, we have a great foundation for growth in our businesses and are laser focused on doing what is required to enhance results. We do not foresee any transformational acquisitions as our focus is on execution. As such in 2018, we're looking forward to continued solid performances from our Canadian and UK operations and a gradual improvement from our FinishMaster U.S. segment. This concludes our presentation. We're now ready to answer your questions.

Jessa, could you please open the line-up for the questions please?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Leon Aghazarian from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Leon.

Yeah, just on the first question would be on the FinishMaster U.S.A. I mean margins, obviously, were lower considerably from a year-over-year perspective, even from a quarter-to-quarter perspective. I appreciate the fact of your seasonality, but can you just give us a little bit more color as to what led to the 200-basis-point drop and just some details around that would be helpful please.

Yeah. I'm going to give this to Eric to help us with the margin side of it.

Yeah. So, Leon, as we pointed out there is the seasonality element to it. There is also some additional cost linked to medical and or compensation that represented closely to 52-basis-point of impact on the margin of FinishMaster. And the balance is the number of items and amongst others the fact that we did not benefit from a lot of special buy-ins during the quarter.

So, yeah, could you help me understand that, what do you mean by lower special buys? Is that normally you will get more discounts on some products, and then, you didn't this quarter or just kind of how are we supposed to interpret that?

Yeah, you know, it's something that you think back the last few years, we've qualified our margins at FinishMaster and we've said, you know, we've got greater than expected margins and we're qualified at lots of times by the fact that we've had special buys. So, those are our special buys offered by manufacturers. They're not consistent. They happen when they happen. And our view is always to take advantage of those special buys when we possibly can. And in the fourth quarter of 2017, we didn't have that many special buys. So, it is a delta from what we've seen in other quarters.

The other element, Leon, is the revenue mix. It is evolving as you know as the MSO has become a larger share of the portfolio and that's part of the reason we're having the 2020 initiatives across the three businesses.

So, is that primarily like the lower special buys is that you know primarily due to the fact that the suppliers are squeezing out, I mean do they don't want to, I guess, give up more margins in that sense or is that just kind of a one-off in the quarter or do you expect that to be kind of more of a trend where you are not going to see any more special buys going forward?

I mean, we don't know the answer that quite frankly. I mean we haven't seen as many in the last couple of quarters quite frankly and it's not up to us, it's up to the manufacturers, that's not the strategy we know or can control. Our view is that if there's special buys out there and it makes sense, we'll take advantage of that. If there isn't, then we operate our business as normal, so no more complicated than that.

I appreciate the color on the guidance. I think that's quite helpful. And you give the segmented breakdown for organic growth, would it be possible to get, I mean, your segmented view on the EBITDA margin? I'm just trying to get a sense of how are you getting to the 7.2% to 8.2% range?

Leon, it's very, very, very scientific is how we get to that. So, the answer to the question is we're not giving EBITDA guidance for our Canadian and U.S. segments. But we have given guidance on the UK. And we've given guidance because it was a brand new transformational acquisition. There were questions last quarter about where we are with that. And I'll reiterate that by the way. So, we said that there is a number of things we needed to do in Q3 and Q4, and you've seen our margins in Q3 and Q4 and the UK reflect the cost changes we've taken to the business. We reduced the cost base by about £3 million and we took the associated severance and costs in Q3 and Q4 2017.

We said that the business we acquired generate 7.5% EBITDA margin, that's the whole – 100% true. Remember, there's seasonality and Eric mentioned it in his commentary, we mentioned in the UK, we mentioned in the last call, Q3 and Q4, our seasonally slowest quarters. So, you couple that with the changes we had to make, you see why we had the sort of circa 4% number. The annualized – I'm trying to look at 2018 only now, right? 2018, our expectation is 7.5% and that only dilution from that we see is our investments in our greenfield locations. So, that's a purposeful choice we are making to invest in those greenfield as opposed to necessarily acquiring, we'll always look at both those options, but when we open up a greenfield that will be dilutive to that margins.

So, that's the only discount to it, our expectations and how we're tracking, how the business normally tracks is at that 7.5% rate and that's where we are for. So, that's the guidance we're going to give for the UK. But again we're not providing EBITDA guidance at the FinishMaster and Canada segment levels.

Okay, that's helpful. And one final one for me will just be, I mean, you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you're not anticipating making any more transformational acquisitions, and given your balance sheet, I mean, and the share price, would you consider be getting more active on the buyback?

No, at this point, I think you never say never, but the reality is you know we're highly focused on having the balance between making sure we take on the right tuck-in acquisitions in all of our business. We have the tuck-in acquisitions in Canada, specifically in the UK, specifically if the right one comes up the FinishMaster, we will certainly look at it. But what we're saying right now is that we're focused on the core business and executing it.

Let's face it last year in FinishMaster, we got distracted by the product line changeover – that was a big event for us. So, we're doubling down our business in the U.S. in particular and making sure we drive organic growth in the underlying business today. That product line changeover is behind us. We just don't want to get any further distractions. Now having said all this, if something transformational comes up, you know – who knows. But that's not our focus today, that's not something we're looking for.

Thank you. I'll jump back in the queue.

Thanks, Leon.

Your next question comes from the line of Benoit Poirier from Desjardins Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you very much, and good morning, gentlemen. Eric, could you come back a little bit on the bps that were impacted with the employee benefits for FinishMaster, I've heard about the 50 bps, am I right?

That is correct, Benoit. So, the combination of the medical and the work comps hit the margins by about 52 basis points at FinishMaster compared to the 2016 behavior.

Okay. And are there some other non-recurring items that we should remove when looking at Q4 because so far there was only $2.1 million, plus any also expectation for Q1 in 2018?

As it relates to Q4, we had a little bit of severance. So, that's a couple of bps, but it's under 25-basis-point in terms of impact. And as we said, as we tailored it, the cost to serve model, we will continue to do those activities to optimize the business.

Okay. And any other non-recurring items to be recorded in Q1 or 2018?

In Q1, nothing of significance, and it's too early, if there would be something down the road as we evolve in our analysis of cost to serve, and if that's the case, then we'll certainly share that with you, as we see it evolving. But at this point, I don't see that.

Okay. And now looking at 2018, what is your assumption related to the opening of greenfield location and what would be the margin profile of Parts Alliance once you take into account the opening of the greenfield location? Because it seems that the 7.5% excludes the opening or the dilution that would come from the opening of greenfield locations.

Yeah, that's exactly it, Benoit. That's precisely it. You know, our expectation, first of all, is to open up greenfield locations. We've announced two so far this year. So, we announced two last week. So, that's a great new story. And I think, as we talked about when we were all together in the UK, we have a model where we can bring up these greenfields to profitability in a reasonable amount of time. So, it's not like, you know, we're having to wait a very long time, but it's a choice on our part to make sure we make that investment, where it makes sense to build out the network.

So, as you look at the underlying business at 7.5%, our choice is to do that and it'll be diluted depending on how many greenfield locations we set up. But we're not talking about 200 basis points here; we're talking about some level of dilution. These are small branches, these aren't massive locations.

Okay, perfect. And on the paint side, looking at the manufacturers, they are dealing with an increase in raw materials. So, to me, it seems that it bodes well for pricing increase throughout the year. So, I was just wondering if you would expect some special purchase as they are increasing pricing and whether it could provide a slight bump in terms of organic growth on the paint side.

Well, I mean, I think this is a very standard answer and I don't mean to give it homogeneous, but any time we have price increases in any of our businesses, we're always going to make sure we buy fast-moving product in advance of those price increases. The more notice we get, the better we like it. So, we're always going to do that. So, I think there's likely going to be some price increases. Steve, maybe you can put color on that. I mean, we don't know. It's up to the manufacturers really.

No, Benoit, you said it correctly, that there is pressure on raw material. So, we have not budgeted for additional than the historic rates we get, but you would think that there could be some advantages for us in 2018.

We'll leave that up to the manufacturers. So we're happy. Like we said in all businesses, we don't mind price increases at all. We can typically pass those along. At FinishMaster, I'd say they're more sticky with the traditional customers and less sticky with the MSOs, but again, that's something more for the manufacturers to deal with.

Okay, perfect. And looking at MSOs, Henry, what would be the total percentage of revenues on the paint side that comes from MSO? And I understand the big impact on the gross margin, but the cost to serve the MSO is also different, so if you could provide some color on the discrepancy in terms of margins or at least the percentage of revenue that come from MSO and whether you would expect the number to go up in 2018.

Yeah. So, let me add to this in two parts. One is that the revenue for MSOs is sort of sub-40%, that's been the case. It's been growing. So, it's – without a doubt, if you go back a couple of years it was probably mid-30s, 34%, and it's been creeping up towards the 40%mark, but it's still sub-40%.

So, we are seeing a larger mix from the MSOs and that's sort of reflective of the entire market. So, we've got a very good share of the MSOs. We love that customer segment weekly, love the traditional customer. So, we're not differentially focused on either one of them quite frankly.

The second part of that answer I'd say is the one thing that we need to really make sure we adapt to and evolve with is our cost to serve. And we've talked about that for quite some time. We've done some very good job in making sure we modify our service levels to fit the requirements of the MSOs that are different than some of those traditional customers.

So, as we've modified that over the last number of years, we've been able to enjoy sort of reasonable operating margins at the bottom line level. I think what we're saying today is that we're going to take the next step change in how we service those customers. So, we're looking to reinvent ourselves in terms of how we deliver exceptional service to those MSOs, but also really truly reduce that cost to serve.

So, we don't have the answer for that today, but I can tell you we're highly focused on making sure that we set the business up for the future and are enabled to drive the bottom line profitability in an environment where there is larger, more MSO business in our customer mix. So that's a big, big focus for what we're up to and you'll see probably more – we'll give you more on that as we evolve through the course of this year.

Okay. Thanks for the time. And I'll get back in the queue. Thanks.

Thanks, Benoit.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Glen from Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Hey, Michael.

Hey. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Just in terms of the segmented breakdown on the margin, can you give some idea of corporate cost in 2018. I think it was $11 million in 2017. What that line item might look like in 2018?

I'd give this to Eric, our chief of corporate cost.

So, Michael, we anticipate for corporate cost something similar that we experienced in 2017 to 2018. So, it should be in the same ballpark.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just the $26 million to $29 million number you gave, that's CapEx, right?

Yes. So that's CapEx, but CapEx including – it's important to understand that, so it includes intangibles on the software side because, as you know, Parts Alliance and even in the two other businesses, we do invest on the software. And therefore, there is an element of capital expenditure linked that is treated as intangibles. And more importantly there, the car fleet leases that we invest not in significant amount of money every year for the three businesses, we have a pretty large fleet of automotive that needs to be refreshed on a regular basis. So, you need to look at those three factors to come to the number that I provided you. And just for clarity, Michael, in 2017, when you combine those three numbers, you actually get close to $23 million, $24 million that we spend in 2017.

Yeah. We...

Okay. [indiscernible]

(31:15) Parts Alliance...

Correct.

... in the family, too, so.

Okay. And then, on the cash flow statement as well, you have that line item, advance to merchant members, that's been sort of creeping a bit higher. Would you anticipate a similar level of advances in 2018 versus 2017?

Yeah. It is a similar level. But the other factor you need to look or think about is we typically reinvest 2.25% to 2.50% of FinishMaster top line into those types of investments to consumers. Roughly, that's sort of the rule. So, as you grow your business, you will invest a little bit more now from a run rate perspective and I think that's the best assumption you could make.

Okay. And then, the 2% to 4% organic growth at FinishMaster, can you break down some of the elements as to how we get there. I think price increases is one of those, but what are some of the other elements that you're including in that assumption? You don't have to quantify it, but just to highlight them.

So, Michael, this is Steve. You know, the price increase is definitely one of them, but it's the new customer acquisition that we do every single year in the vehicle refinished business, and its growth out of the industrial segment that we've been talking about for several quarters that is up to speed, and as Henry stated in the opening comments that we've seen some good acquisition of not only national customers but local customers.

Okay. And then, just one final, how would you describe the competitive environment in the automotive refinished market right now?

It's – it is very competitive. It hasn't – I can say it's changed, but it hasn't changed. I mean it is a very competitive market out there with some very good regional distributors. We've got private equity into the space now. It's competitive, but we've got the number one spot and we continue to grow that and continue to hold on our size.

And you know, Michael, let me add on to that – you know, at the end of the day, it is a competitive market, always has been, you now, we haven't seen any – any major differences this year with private equities bought out couple players but that does not made any significant difference at this point. Really, it's up to us. And this is what I – what my earlier remarks here is, you know, we got distracted last year, right? I mean, our job number one last year was to get that product line change over to the highest conversion rate possible, so that was, you know, you take a lot of focus and time and effort from your sales force and your business to make that conversion.

And, you know, I think, we lost a little bit of mojo we call it. You know, on our – on our current accounts and we've got that mojo back now. We need to sort of accelerate that through the course of the year. So, when I talk about our focus for that business, it's really about making sure we serve and deliver great service to all of our current customers.

You know, go after them and do a very, very good job of making sure we retain and grow the business with current customers. We've got a very good pipeline of new account opportunities. So, we're going to make sure we focus on execution. That's – that's our job number one at FinishMaster this year. And that's why, we're saying, we're looking for progressive results. I don't expect you know the calendar page to turn. And then, we wrap up to where the number we'd like to be at. We're seeing progressive improvements. That's our plan for the course of 2018.

So, that's kind of the environment we're in. We're in number one position in the marketplace, and you know, we're going to make sure we capitalize on that and continue to do what's right to serve customers.

Okay. Thanks for the questions, guys.

Great. Thanks, Michael.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Lamers from BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hey, Jon.

Good morning. On the lower special buys, I don't want to beat a dead horse here. But were those special buys in the prior year offered from the same manufacturer that's been looking to revise the discount structure it offers to the distributors?

You know, for us special buys are general, we get from multiple manufacturers. So, there's no specifics there. It's just a matter of we get special buys offered on various manufacturers.

Okay. Thanks. And on FinishMaster, splitting hairs a bit. But I saw the organic sales growth guidance range was changed a little bit to include a lower – low end. Could you just update us on your efforts to add a second line to the stores that have only been offering one line and sort of how that's been progressing and are there still stores that are only offering one line today?

Yeah. First of all, yes, so stores only offer one line today. And you know that's always for us a very, very delicate balance. We've got great relationships with – and we'll name them, we've got great relationships with Axalta, we have great relationships with PPG. We've been with these folks for a very, very long time. We're highly dedicated to partnering with them in all the markets we're in.

What the challenge for us is there are some markets where they're already coupled with another partner and we get that, so areas where we've lost our – say the name again, [ph] PSF (36:54) where we're no longer distributing that product line, that leaves a void in some of our branches. And if there's areas, for example, where Axalta and PPG are currently with other partners, then we have an opportunity then to add another line, which is AkzoNobel, which we already have by the way in a host of locations across the U.S. through a lot of our acquisitions over the last few years. So, we now have a sizable business with them regardless. But this is an opportunity for us to fill in those locations, so we're able to service more customers in those markets. So for us, it's a very complementary strategy. We never would think of taking business away from our Axalta and PPG partners. We love and share those relationships. It's just a matter of balancing out markets where we don't have the opportunity to distribute their lines. How can we service more customers with another line like AkzoNobel who are by the way another great manufacturer. So, I think we're very, very fortunate to have a great stable of partners.

Okay. So, for the guidance, can you tell or do you know already that you'll be able to add that second line to the stores that are only carrying one line, is that baked into your guidance?

I mean, we've obviously got a game plan with our branches for a second line where it's appropriate. So, we absolutely have that detailed plan and we're in the process of executing accordingly. And, again, we do so in alignment with all our manufacturers. So...

Okay. Great.

This is not a guess – we've been working on this for a long time. So, this is not something we just thought of as the calendar turns, we've been – this is under way.

Okay. And just switching gears to the Canadian business. Can you just update us on where you are with the investments, the rollout of the BUMPER TO BUMPER brand and the PartsWatch rollout? How many more quarters we'll see the investments there in terms of on the expense line?

Yeah, I think, you know, what brand wanted to – just on a general, we've got a couple of things going on, we got BUMPER TO BUMPER rollout to our independence, so maybe touch on that one first.

Well, from an independence standpoint, we're probably 95% complete. And on the corporate store side, as we continue to buy stores, it will be part of our branding strategy and investment strategy – we'll go with that, [indiscernible] (39:20) one of the business performance as we do the acquisitions. We'll continue to see the BUMPER TO BUMPER rollout through the balance of the year and we will also have PartsWatch will – we'll continue to invest in that as we [Technical Difficulty] (39:38) really through Q3 [Technical Difficulty] (39:40). Yeah, the balance of the year and then [Technical Difficulty] (39:45).

I think we spent a lot of time through 2017, putting PartsWatch in. We're very happy with it. In fact, we're doing – we're already in upgrades to it. Not costly upgrades, but upgrade to make sure we get the functionality right, so that rollout continues; and as we acquire stores, we still got – it's more of a continuous journey there. But the majority of that – the way I call it to put our initial stores up that will be behind us as Brent says by Q3, Q4. We're taking the reasonable pace out to make sure we do it right.

Right.

Okay, great. And just two questions for Eric. One on the taxes, I noticed you highlighted the investments that you're making. Do you have any guidance for us on cash taxes going forward following U.S. tax reform?

Well, I mean the effective tax rate will be between 24% and 25%, and as we mentioned for the U.S., we have very, very little tax losses left if any to offset those. I mean, the tax cash will equal basically statutory tax rate.

Okay. Thanks. And just circling back on one of the earlier comments where you said that the effective severance in Q4 was under 25 basis points year-over-year. Is that exclusively on the FinishMaster segment.

That was – yeah that was for FinishMaster, obviously, for Parts Alliance, that number is actually a little bit lower but it's similar, so both businesses are in the same range, [Technical Difficulty] (41:20) activity in Canada are also around that.

Okay. Thanks for your comments.

If there are any additional questions at this time, [Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Elizabeth Johnston from Laurentian Bank Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning, Elizabeth.

Just going back to The Parts Alliance in your slide deck, you mentioned, cost corrections that were taken, completed by the end of December, can you give us a sense of how much of those corrections – and I think you had highlighted about £3 million worth, how much of those came in Q3 versus the Q4 period?

I would say it certainly – it's skewed more towards Q4, and Elizabeth, there was a little bit, but not much in Q3, a bulk of it was in Q4.

Yeah, we only had seven weeks of operating in Q3, so it's very much in line with what we talked about in the UK, and what we've talked about in the last call, is that you know we've taken that target £3 million and removed it from the business, and we're in great shape right now in terms of that cost base and we're set to roll forward.

So, will there be any additional of these types of cost in 2018 then?

Well, we'll always continue to optimize the businesses as we see fit. But you know there – there will be a little bit of – as I mentioned on my 20/20, there is an additional 10% that we've identified in 2016, which brings us to the 60% and some of this is a mix of productivity measurements and some cost efficiency. So, there will be additional elements, but not necessarily truly on the workforce.

And speaking of the 20/20 initiative, can you give us a sense can you quantify somehow the benefit that you've seen so far that we expect to seek flow for 2018, either in terms of a dollar value or in basis points in EBITDA margin, just trying to get a sense of what this means going forward and what kind of benefit we should expect to see longer term?

Well, if you think about Parts Alliance per se for instance when you look at our year-to-date results in 2017, you saw that we had margins at roughly around 4% EBITDA. If you remove £3 million from that run rate, what you'll see is about 80% to 85% – 85-basis-point pick-up linked to that £3 million activity that has been completed. So, that's part of the reason why we are confident that Parts Alliance margins for the year was over around 7.5% as we mentioned and there will be some dilution with greenfield as we opened them. And to the question I was asked earlier, we'll inform you along the way if it's – opening greenfield is a matter of execution, timing? When you open it, you may open two in one quarter or maybe three in other quarters, so it's very variable and hard to say when you start the year about what is the expected impact for the entire year.

And in terms of the initiatives in other segments, can you comment there?

We're not going to sort of go 20/20 by segment-by-segment. But I think what Eric said earlier was we're already seeing a very significant portion of the 20/20 initiatives, benefits already coming through. So, we're making great progress on that. But what we don't want to do is start to drill down into each segment on the 20/20. We have detailed plans by segment, but that's something we're clearly not going to want to put out in the market.

Okay.

The one at Parts Alliance was obvious, so we're happy to discuss that one.

Okay great. And just trying to FinishMaster and the impact there in terms of the product line change over on organic growth, I would expect that we've now fully lapped that. Do you have any expectations for further headwinds in 2018?

No, no. That ended at the end of the year. So we're not looking for any excuses. We're being very transparent. That's exactly what it was. You saw the impact in Q4. It was – as we talked about in the last two quarters, it started to wane over the last two quarters, and as we come to the year, we're clean, so it's up to us, you know, it's all on us now.

Okay. And finally for me just in terms of Canada EBITDA margin, I'm looking at the history versus this year versus a couple of years ago and, overall, organic growth rate, you talked about in the past, when you have higher organic growth, it does benefit your margin. I would've expected a higher margin this year, but maybe you can help me – walk me through the differential there. Is it from the customer loss that is impacting margin here? Investment in corporate stores and BUMPER TO BUMPER side, is it those things that I should be factoring in here?

Let me just take the customer loss first and then we'll talk about the margin. So, I even hate mentioning the one in Canada because it came up in Q1. It was a sizable number. I just mentioned it for Q4 and I already mentioned it in Q4 because before they left and sort of ended their contract January 1 or December 31 of last year, they loaded up their inventory. So, it had a disproportional effect on 2016 December, fourth quarter of 2016. So, when we look at our results in Canada, you know, we reported 1.5%, but really the underlying business is generating 5.9%. So, it was skewed, that's why I even hated to mention that one customer loss.

I think when you look at their – at the EBITDA margins, our goal as always been stated is we're going to continue to grow this EBITDA margin as we move forward, right? Without a doubt. So we're not exactly thrilled with where the EBITDA margin is today. Our plan is to get significantly higher over time. So I think there's lots of stuff at play in terms of the cost side right now. The PartsWatch implementation is certainly one of it. We've made some investments in the corporate stores ahead of the curve to make sure we got the right leadership team in place. We're doing the right cost implementations as we migrate to the BUMPER TO BUMPER programs, so there's investments that go on there.

And I'd say we have more work to do in Canada on the cost side and Brent is currently all – and his team are all over this. So, we couldn't be happier with the progress we're making in Canada and our outlook is progressively better as time marches on.

And maybe some color, Elizabeth, on seasonality. We believe and expect that seasonality cycles will be actually a little bit higher and lower between the quarters in Canada as we grow in the stores business because you're sort of adding the same type of revenue profile. So, the cyclicality might be a little bit higher from a seasonal standpoint from quarters to quarters than what we've experienced in the past and that's something that we're paying a lot of attention to because that would translate into having a Q1 and Q4 that has a lower margin historically, but higher margin in Q2 and Q4 that oversets and overwrites or offset if you want your lower margin in Q1 and Q4.

Q2 and Q3. Yeah.

Yeah. So, I mean, that's something that we're sort of seeing more and more, and part of the reason why we wanted to clarify or help the market to better understand the seasonality aspect of Canada and the businesss.

So just run me through again the why is it more cyclical? Why do you expect it to be more of cyclical than [indiscernible] (48:21)?

Well, you're adding more revenue of a same kind, right? And you're having fixed costs associated with your stores. So, as revenue past the breaking point, so to speak, you're going to get higher margins, and as you have lower revenue because of seasonality, well, you're going to have a more punitive impact on your margins. That's all I'm saying.

Okay.

Yeah. You get the benefits – for us, you get the benefits in the seasonally strong quarters and you get sort of amplified impact on the slower quarters. And I think that's all Eric is saying...

Yeah.

...and that's what we looked at in the business today. And if you looked at what happened last year, we had a soft Q1 and then we had a great Q2 in Canada. I don't expect it to be that much different as we go in because seasonality is seasonality, and we've had it historically in the Canadian business forever. And it's the nature of our business. Now, we're talking about seasonality at Parts Alliance. We've got seasonality in Canada. It's slightly less, but we do still have some seasonality, particularly in the slower fourth quarter for FinishMaster, which is not unnatural for a lot of businesses.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Benoit Poirier from Desjardins Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you very much. With respect to your balance sheet, you ended the year almost close to 3 times. I was just wondering, going throughout 2018, obviously, the focus is on the integration. You might be looking for some tuck-in. So, any flexibility you feel you have to perform those tuck-in and where would you like to see your debt/EBITDA toward the end of 2018?

Well, as we indicated back in November, Benoit, we have a plan to deleverage over a period of 24 to 36 months under 2.5 times debt to EBITDA, right? So that's one element and it will be progressive. The other question, which is an interesting – we'll always try to strike the balance between acquisition and deleveraging. And I think Q4 is a great example. We did an acquisition. We invested about $7 million. But we managed to decrease our leverage at the same time. And as you all know, our Q1 is the most demanding from a cash flow perspective because we invest on inventory and we have some more cash outflow in Q1 than any other quarters, especially in the gain side of the business. So, that's why I'm saying that their leverage will go back up in Q1. It is expected. As you know, we burn cash in Q1, we make up most of it in Q2 and then we're cash positive in Q3 and Q4, historically speaking. So, I expect similar patterns. And it's just the balance, right? The right opportunity at the right time for tuck-ins will justify for us to make that investment. But we're also very focused on deleveraging over time.

Okay. And with respect to the loss of your independent job, could you mention some color about the expectation for Q1 whether you expect some impact and maybe if you could quantify?

None whatsoever.

That happened obviously at the end of 2016, so we've now lapped that one as well. The impact is just in the fourth quarter because of their load up, which is sort of abnormal. So, now we're progressing nicely in Q1, there's no impact as I remember last.

Okay.

And let me reiterate to everyone because we're trying to be very transparent here. I said all the way along in Canada, as we changed the network a little bit, you know, we had a couple of customers that were really acting more like competitors, right? And we said for the last three years, I've said these are going to probably change over time. So, there's still the possibility of making another significant change, higher impact on sales, very low impact on margins. So, I want to make sure that we're clearing that, there's always a possibility, don't have everything planned at this point, but that's where we are, the last one wasn't a surprise to us and I want to make sure we're along the same page here.

Okay. And could you comment also about the initiative with industrial paint, whether you see still some opportunities in 2018? And could you comment about the ramp-up of the industrial paint initiatives?

Yeah. So, Benoit, the ramp-up, it maybe went in place for infrastructure in 2017. We did gain some sales in 2017, but really the initiative right now is doubling down on the sales. We've got product in the store, we've got people hired. We've got a plan in place, so really looking forward to the increase in sales on that side. And Henry did say, I think, I said at once already that we have signed some national customers and local customers already. So, it is moving forward as we expected so far in 2018.

Okay. And on the paint side, could you talk a little bit about the initiatives you put in place to restore the organic growth? I know there's been some distraction given the product line change over but just wondering what did you put in place to restore the organic growth?

So, we have a very robust plan in place. No different than we've had every year. But as we've said, it's really about execution, it's really about focus. Focusing on the customers we have, making sure we retain the customers we have. We've got a great track record of solid pipeline and converting that pipeline into actual customers. So, once again, it's focus on execution on the vehicle finished side that will create that organic growth.

Okay. And last one for me. Could you talk a little bit about the range. Obviously, the EBITDA margin is between 7.2% to 8.2%. What would bring you to the low end or high end? So, what kind of assumptions you were making that or what could happen that could bring you toward the low or the high end of the range?

Benoit, as any businesses, you have some peak and valleys [indiscernible] (54:30) three segments. So, the question you're asking is almost impossible to answer and that's why we're providing a range.

Yeah. And I think at the end of the day also, remember we've removed guidance a couple of years ago, so we're trying to be very transparent and very helpful in terms of our business. We're helping you with, you know, a range on the EBITDA side, for consolidated and we're helping you with organic growth. So, all we're trying to be here is provide a high level of guidance for the business.

Great. Thank you very much for the time.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thanks, Benoit.

Your next question comes from the line of Carolina Jolly from Gabelli. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hey, Carolina.

Good morning. So, just quickly, could you kind of expand on some of the factors affecting organic growth in FinishMaster excluding that product line change over? Is it market related? Because there just seems to be some spreads between this quarter's organic growth and some of the number of fires we're giving out?

I think what we mentioned and the team got distracted by focusing on a product mix changeover and that had a side effect on our existing customer base and how we go to market, when we say we're focusing on execution and doubling down on that aspect is to recover from those distractions. There's nothing much more to explain in that.

Yeah. It's up to us. That's just, there's opportunity for us to continue to accelerate growth and we'll just make sure we're doubling down on our focus on execution, unlike it gets any more complicated than that.

Great. And I guess that means that you see clear pathways of how you're going to do that to get to the more positive 2% to 4%?

The business really have some very, very robust plan as Steve alluded to and that plan goes all the way to customer level, customer by customer.

All right. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to the presenters.

Great. Thank you so much, Jessa. Really appreciate it. Thanks everyone for listening. We really appreciate all your questions and looking forward to updating you on our progress on our next quarterly call. Thanks, everyone, and have a great day.

Thank you.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.