Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Manager-Investor Relations and Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Vice President-Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and Chief Operating Officer-Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Brent Windom — President & Chief Operating Officer-Automotive US, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Justin Wu — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2013 Third Quarter Results Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. Welcome to Uni-Select's 2013 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO, and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President-Corporate Services and CFO. Also joining me this morning are Steve Arndt, President and COO-FinishMaster; Gary O'Connor, President and COO Automotive Canada; Brent Windom, President and COO, Automotive USA.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our most recent Annual Report available on SEDAR.

Richard Roy will first discuss key operational highlights for the quarter, then Denis Mathieu will discuss Q3 financial results. Following their presentations, we will open the call to questions.

Thank you very much, Karine. Hello, everyone and thank you for joining us this morning. I'm very pleased to report strong third quarter results, which display a combination of healthy top line growth and robust profitability and margin growth. I'm especially pleased by the fact that each of our business units contributed to our strong performance in Q3.

This performance is mainly attributable to the effectiveness of our various sales initiatives, which led us to recruit new customers in both auto parts and foreign nameplate, and signed distribution agreements between FinishMaster and many multi-shop owners or, if you prefer, large collision centers. We also supported existing customers who opened new stores. Our great results also come from our enhanced service levels, enhanced by the rollout of our ERP software and operational improvements. The 22% adjusted EBITDA growth and 32% EPS increase recorded this quarter are also illustration that the aggressive Action Plan announced in July is yielding the expected results.

The Action Plan is designed to optimize overall performance of our distribution network across the U.S. automotive operation. Under the Action Plan, we closed 18 corporate stores and three warehouses during the third quarter of 2013, which are in addition to the 11 store and 1 warehouse closed during the second quarter.

Thanks to the excellent work of our team, I am pleased to report that greater sales volumes than planned were retained from these closures. Accordingly, the 1.6% decrease in sales that came from those closure was more than offset by the organic growth recorded in Q3.

As of the end of the quarter, we were able to reduce our costs by $4.3 million, which represent an estimated cost reduction of approximately $13 million on an annual basis. We had announced last July annual cost reductions of $10 million in 2013, of which $5 million would be realized in the second semester, in the second half of 2013. We are, therefore, ahead of our plan.

In the fourth quarter, we will be opening our new regional distribution center in Washington D.C. This new facility will have a state-of-the-art configuration to allow optimal customer service. It will carry all essential and non-essential product lines and obviously, provide overnight deliveries. As a result of this addition to our network, our current centers in Hyattsville, Maryland, and Roanoke, Virginia will be closed, and their operations migrated to Washington D.C.

We are overall very satisfied with progress under the Action Plan. We are currently ahead of our targets in terms of savings. In light of our current results in progress, we have adjusted the list of store closures, some will stay open, some that were not scheduled to close will be closed. In total, we are now planning to close or divest of 43 stores instead of 48 stores due to the success of the margin enhancement and cost reduction initiatives. We will continue to adapt some plan items in order to deliver greater value.

I would be remised if I did not take a moment to thank our suppliers who provide a much appreciated support in coordinating our inventory movements due to the warehouse and store closures and openings under the Action Plan. Their collaboration will help us meeting our inventory reduction targets, which should mainly occur in the first half of 2014 with cash impact mainly in the second half of 2014.

Towards the end of the third quarter, we completed another ERP implementation wave. The software has been deployed in two warehouses and 34 stores in Florida. I am pleased to report that the transition went according to plan without any disruption to business activities. We can now say that software issues experienced in the early stages are now entirely behind us.

Our final implementation wave is scheduled to take place in early December. We are confident that by the end of Q4, our ERP software will be operational in all of our part distribution centers across the United States and obviously Canada, which was completed last year. This will allow us to reap the benefits of this new system.

Before I hand it over to Denis, let me conclude by sincerely thanking the members of our team for their tremendous achievements over the past months. Their dedication, quality work, and commitment enabled us to better our operation, improve our sales, and deliver improved service to our customers. You all make us very proud. Denis?

Thanks, Richard, and good morning. As Richard mentioned, we are very pleased with our third quarter results. Sales for the quarter reached $465 million, a 1.6% increase over the same quarter last year. This increase was fueled by an organic growth of 2.8%, which exceeded the 1.6% decline in sales resulting from store closures. Organic sales were positive in both United States and Canada, up 1.8% and 5.3% respectively. Adjusted EBITDA grew by almost 22% in the quarter to $30 million, while the EBITDA margins grew from 5.4% to 6.5% this quarter.

As we are only in the early stage of our Action Plan, we are very proud to have improved our margin by more than 20% compared to last year. We will remain focused on continuing to improve our margin in the quarters to come. The increase mainly comes from cost savings initiatives, including savings derived from non-profitable location [ph] closing (8:27), improved productivity and head count reductions.

Adjusted earnings for the quarter stood at $15 million or $0.70 per share, representing an increase of 32% over the same quarter last year, up from $0.53 per share. Net earnings were $14 million or $0.67 per share in 2013 compared to a net loss of $0.05 per share last year, mainly due to restructuring expense amounting to $18.5 million or $11.5 million after tax recorded in relation with the 2012 optimization plan. In the third quarter, we reduced our debt by $23 million, bringing our total reimbursement or reduction so far this year to $48 million surpassing our total year objective of reducing the debt by $40 million.

As of September 30, our outstanding net debt stood at $262 million, down 17% year-over-year. Our debt-to-EBITDA ratio for bank common purposes now stand below three times compared to 3.5 times last quarter as a result of this important debt reduction and the increase in EBITDA. We will not adjust our debt reduction objective for 2013 as we plan to apply cash from operating activity of the fourth quarter towards an inventory investment in preparation for the opening of the new distribution center in Washington as explained by Richard earlier.

In other words, we are not forecasting additional significant debt reduction in the fourth quarter. On the final note, the nine month financial results came in slightly below the result of 2012, which is almost entirely due to our 2013 first quarter performance. The first quarter was impacted by softer demand on seasonal repairs reflecting challenging economic conditions as well as by temporary business disruption due to the implementation of the ERP. This system issues were resolved at the end of the first quarter.

Also it is worth to mention that so far this year, we bought back 263,000 shares for a total cash consideration of $5.8 million, representing approximately 1.2% of the total outstanding shares. Richard?

Thank you very much, Denis. We are very proud of our results for this quarter demonstrating our team's ability to improve its efficiency and generate organic growth. After what has been a somewhat slower-than-expected start to the year, I'm now delighted to see the direct results of our Action Plan, ERP rollout and sales programs. What makes me even more proud is that these decisions will lead to an overall improved efficiency and stronger distribution network for the short, medium, and long terms.

We are confident that we can continue to further improve our services and product offering to remain a partner of choice for our independent jobbers and strengthen our leadership position in the automotive aftermarket product distribution.

Before we open the line for your questions, I am pleased to report that the board of director declared a dividend of $0.13 share payable on January 22, 2014 to shareholders of record on December 31, 2013.

We are now ready to answer your questions. Madam operator, please.

Thank you. We will now take the questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Hey. Good morning, Richard. Good morning, Denis, and congratulations for the good results.

Thank you, Benoit.

Yeah. So just in terms of sales, same-store sales, obviously, good performance this quarter. There was – also when we look at last year, this was I think a tough quarter a year ago. What should we expect in Q4 in terms of same store sales? Should we expect a reversal and a better performance coming from the US, given it was down more than the Canada in Q4 last year? How should we foresee the same-store sales going forward in Q4?

I think basically, Benoit, is we are looking at continued positive organic sales in the fourth quarter of 2013. And that's basically what we're looking at right now.

Okay. Perfect. And what has been the trend in the last few weeks, September and October in comparison to July, August, Richard?

Well, we see continued strength in our sales right now and you have – it's a market in the U.S. I would say with all of the upheavals and various elements there, that has been going up and down. So it's still unsteady. I wouldn't call it negative, I wouldn't call it positive. It's up and down, but to our improvement in service levels and the various initiatives that we have, we've been able to do fairly well. So, I will tell you that we are seeing positive sales results going on in Q4.

Okay. Perfect. And when we look at your financial position, obviously above target, you reduced debt by $48 million; you were targeting $40 million. You don't expect to reduce debt, but assuming that you still continue to build cash, where would you apply the cash? Is it more in terms of M&A and what is the kind of optimal fund-to-debt EBITDA ratio you would like to be at going forward?

I will tell you that as Denis explained in the fourth quarter, we will be reinvesting some inventories due to the execution of our plan and the opening of the new warehouse and if we want to make sure that we do not affect service levels of the customers.

Obviously, as our operating cash flow continues, we will continue to lower our debt level and even though we already feel very much more comfortable with the way we are right now being below three times, we've mentioned before that two and half is really the level that's optimal as far as we're concerned.

This being said, we continue to make investment decisions based on the best return of the opportunities that we have and like inventory investments and product deployment, we want to optimize and so on and so forth. If there is M&A opportunities, again, right now, the name of the game, the first focus is to continue our Action Plan and improve results, but we always look at the opportunities on a merit basis.

Okay. And just in terms of inventory, my previous understanding was the fact that there is typically some nice opportunities in terms of pricing to increase the inventory in Q4. Is it a seasonal pattern, where you have better deals from some suppliers, Richard?

We might have in one sector of our business mainly the PB&E sector that typically is having some pricing action and if that comes up, we will take full advantage of that. We don't really see many opportunities in the other segments of the business.

Okay. And just to finish for the M&A activity, I understand the focus right now is on the restructuring, but when would you feel comfortable to re-visit the M&A and what could we expect or what's your interest in terms of the size or either product or geographic location? That's it. Thank you.

You are experienced enough, Benoit, to know that the M&A business is an opportunistic game also at the same time and it will really depend on the opportunities that come up. If you really ask me with my preferences, I would like to strengthen the areas where we are right now so that we optimize the economies of scale and so on and so forth. But sometimes you plan that way and something else happens. Again, as I said before, we are going to be looking at the opportunities on a merit basis and will be very careful in our resource deployment. One thing I will tell you is we have tools to do an even more in-depth integration process that we have done before. And that certainly any investment that we would deploy would be with a way to certainly leverage the bottom line and the return on our assets and our equity.

Okay. Thank you very much for the time.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Richard, Denis.

Good morning, Anthony.

I'd like to get a bit more color on your new customer wins. I guess that was in Canada, or was it in the U.S.?

That was in both areas. In Canada, Gary, maybe you want to expand a little bit.

We've signed up some new customers. Some of our existing customers have opened new stores and this is a long process. It takes many months and a lot of time to get over. So, we do have some new point of sales, which is encouraging and less so, we do have some more loyalty coming from our existing customers, so I think there's a lot of positives going on right now.

We're also basically looking at additional distribution opportunities in area of PBE in Canada. And also we have the same type of thing going. Steve, you want to talk about some of your pipeline that's very good and some of the wins that you had during the quarter?

Yes. Richard, thank you. The pipeline for PBE in the United States is very rich. There continues to be a tremendous amount of opportunity for us to gain new business. We recently signed few agreements with two of the larger multi-shop operators in the United States and we see that there'll be continued activity in that segment for us in the future [inaudible] (20:30).

Okay. Brent, do you want to comment on the sales activities and the [ph] growth support (20:36) activities in your division?

Sure. We've been able to track three new stores this year and certainly two of those in the second quarter. We've also been able to convert some of our corporate stores that were on the close list and attract independents who wanted to enter the aftermarket. They're currently now big customers of ours. We've improved our service level continually through the third quarter and which is increased our loyalty.

Okay. Excellent.

One of the thing maybe we can add, which really maybe does not qualify as organic growth, Tony, but I need to mention that the sales erosion that came from the closures of the three warehouses in the U.S. as much less than what we have forecast.

Okay. Well, Richard, do you think that trend is going to continue? Like I think you're anticipating over time $70 million, so could that number be a lot less over time?

Brent, would you care to comment on that?

Sure. Based on what we've seen so far in the first two phases of our closures and divestures, we actually have been able to retain the customer base, service them out of our existing footprint and we're really encouraged that we can continue that trend to be honest with you.

So, it will be lower, even though I would expect maybe a little bit more erosion in some of the other locations because of physical distances.

I think, Tony, what is important to mention is at the store level, when we close a store, unfortunately, it's more difficult to keep those customer, but the good news is we transferred all of the servicing of the cost of the jobber from one warehouse to the other and I can tell you that this is very, very promising.

Okay. And Denis, with reference to CapEx, can you give us an idea of our outlook for the fourth quarter for next year.

Okay. For the fourth quarter, I mean, pardon, don't forget that we have the Action Plan to do. We've mentioned that we would like to invest $16 million through that project. We already started investing some for the Washington location and there is another big location that we will invest to. Next year, overall, our target is, I mean, our target is anything between $30 million to $33 million.

Okay. And one last question, Richard, with reference to the advance on auto parts buying general parts, like what does it mean for Uni-Select, and is there any positive implications, or could there be any positive implications.

Yes, there could be positive implications. I mean, all I will say there is every time that there is change in the market, it means that there is opportunities that are being created, and obviously, we intend to do as much as we can to benefit from the opportunities created.

Okay. And then, what could be some of them?

Well. Whenever there is change, you have people who really don't feel comfortable with that change and that means that there could be recruitment opportunities for customers. There is also going to be manufacturers who will see their distribution potential being threatened or enhanced, so we could position ourselves in there to take advantage of that. I will remind everybody that even though we're actually getting very good [indiscernible] (24:31) in managing our company-owned stores, we have a lot of knowledge and I think we can be considered as one of the premier expert in serving independent jobbers. So, we will continue to capitalize on that.

Okay. Good results. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi. Thanks. Good morning, and congratulations on good results.

Thank you, Leon.

My first question is regarding the Canadian sales. I mean you mentioned that you have picked up a couple of more new business there. I just wanted to know what some of the main drivers were if there were any others on the Canadian type specifically, I mean because organic growth was up 5.3%, so quite high there. And just wanted to know if this is sustainable on an ongoing basis.

Gary, you want to comment on this?

As I mentioned earlier, we have opened several new points of sales this year, so obviously that helps our organic growth. It's sustainable. I mean, it's really hard to predict what the future is, but we do have a lot of plans in place that will help our growth and obviously these new openings will contribute for many months inorganically. So, there's no – we're always looking for new opportunities, new stores. We will have some other – the CNS agreement we signed earlier in the year ago will have a positive impact going forward. So, it'll be hard to predict what it means in numbers, but it does look positive for several months to come.

Would you characterize that as more of market share gains, or is it just because there is additional growth in the Canadian space as a whole?

I think there is some market share gain for sure. The Canadian market goes up and down slightly depending on how people feel about their economic income and all those things, but I really believe that we have picked up some market share. That's – when we talk to the manufacturers, that's the feedback we're getting.

Okay. My second question, I guess, would relate to some of these new agreements that you have with the paint side, on the paint side. So I just wanted to know if we can get a bit more color on that front. I mean, where do you see the paint landscape right now, particularly with FinishMaster [indiscernible] (26:52)?

Steve?

There continues to be a lot of opportunity on the paint side with the consolidation of the industry going on. The large players continue to look for suppliers like FinishMaster that are able to take care of their needs. So, we're positioned very well to be able to take care of that business and service that business, so I see that there's a definite opportunity in the future for us.

I would say that our footprint is quite large, certainly an advantage that we have for the large multi-shop owner operation for us having the capability to [ph] serve that (27:38).

Okay. And then, maybe for Denis here. The debt reduction goal has been met and I guess even exceeded at this point. And I think there was a question on this previously. I just wanted to know if there is a stated goal for like 2014.

Yes, there is. But unfortunately, we're not providing any guidance at this point. The main reason is, if I give you that with the CapEx I gave you at one point, knowing the dividend, the policy that we have, you will know approximately how much [indiscernible] (28:07) we're going to make. So unfortunately, I cannot provide you that information for now.

Okay. Fair enough. And just one final one. Regarding the Washington, DC opening, you mentioned a couple of times that there will be some inventory increases there. Can you quantify that a little bit for us, as to what we should expect in terms of an inventory increase?

We're talking about the $8 million inventory investments in the Washington, DC. And so, obviously, that will basically offset whatever other reductions we have. One thing that Denis mentioned during his talk, I just want to make sure that the significance of that is well understood, is that now that we have been able to get extended terms on accounts payable and so on and so forth, what we said is that the main inventory reduction would be felt in the first half of 2014. But the cash impact, because of the accounts payable delays now, will be felt mainly in the second half of next year.

Late second quarter, you're right.

That's right.

Yeah.

Thank you. That's it for me.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Justin Wu. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning, Justin.

My first question just on the margins or maybe on the restructuring efforts in particular. Year-to-date, you guys talked about the $4.3 million reduction in costs. I'm assuming most of that occurred in the third quarter given the announcement – what you guys started the efforts in July. Would that be correct?

Yes. We did start the efforts I would tell you, in May, June, July. Obviously, most of the benefits started to come up in the third quarter, but we have some in the second.

Yeah. $1 million in the second quarter and $3.3 million in the fourth quarter for a total of $4.3 million.

In the third quarter.

In the third quarter, I'm sorry, for a total of $4.3 million.

Okay. And you guys are essentially are pretty much at your targets for the year. So, I'm just wondering what the pace of cost savings we should anticipate for the fourth quarter. Should it be similar to what we saw in Q3 or it's something a little bit more conservative than that?

If you look at the metrics that we put at the end of the press release, you're going to see that we had a target of $10 million for 2013 and as we speak, we are at $4.3 million and at the bottom we said, that on an annual basis, we're talking about $13 million. So, if you do some extrapolation, you're going to see that we're going to meet easily the $10 million that we are forecasting for this year.

But $10 million was the annual rate and we know we're at $13 million right now. Of the $10 million, we believe that the full year would be impacted positively by $5 million; we're at $4.3 million.

So, at the end of the day, we are ahead. I'm not going to comment whether or not we will continue to outpace that much. But certainly, we are ahead of the pace that we had set for ourselves and we certainly intend to maintain that positive variance that we have.

With respect to the Action Plan, there is only one item that we are – which seems to be behind schedule. It's the inventory reduction because we mentioned that this year, we would reduce inventory by $8 million, it won't happen. Yeah, as you probably noticed, we've done only $1 million so far. But the goal, as Richard mentioned, is we had some agreement with some suppliers and a lot of that will happen during the first and second quarter next year.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And my second question in terms of – I was wondering if you can provide some trends, overall trends in terms of volume and pricing. And whether this lack of discounts, if you will, from some of your suppliers that you indicated earlier would be a harbinger of overall pricing trends as we head into 2014, if that is the right way to look at it.

Well, I'm not sure I follow you, Justin, but I will just maybe repeat what I said earlier, in the PBE sector, we seem to see some pricing trend, but not in the other areas of the business.

Yeah.

So, that's really what we see and we continue to see right now.

Okay. So, pretty overall stable to better pricing trend in the other areas other than the paint side.

No, Justin, while stable in all the areas, some increase in the pricing on the paint side.

Okay. Got it. Thank you. And in terms of the 2014 cost reductions, I'm just trying to figure out what the timing of some of the use implementations will be if it's going to be spread pretty evenly through the quarters.

I would tell you it's going to be pretty evenly. Obviously, our actions will be frontloaded in the first half of the year but the impact will be pretty even in the year 2014. And if you look at the original plan that we announced back in July, there were still a $5 million lingering effect if you want on an annualized basis for 2015.

Okay. And just my last question is on the ERP, it looks like it'll be largely complete, if not complete by December – at the end of December. I'm wondering if there's going to be any lingering costs into 2014.

There will be some costs in the last quarter of 2013 when we do the last four warehouses, and in terms of implementation costs for 2014, will be behind us.

Yeah. It's only for the first quarter because there is also what we call the ramp up for the last four warehouses. The way we do the calculation we forecasted, there is a one-month training before the implementation and there is a lag. There is an impact for the next couple of months. So, first quarter will be impacted and then, we will see some benefits either from less IT, maintenance costs, less system to support to.

Yeah. That lag you is really on the productivity side.

Yeah.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. There are no further question at this time. So, I would like to turn back the meeting over to Mr. Roy.

Well, I'll be very, very brief. Thank you very much everyone on behalf of everybody joining me this morning in Boucherville. I'm very happy that you joined us and thank you for your time and have a great day. This concludes the meeting.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation.