Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard G. Roy — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — CFO, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Daniel A. Courtney — President, FinishMaster, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets
Jessy Hayem — Analyst, TD Securities
Elaine Lae — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please standby. Your conference is ready to begin. [Foreign Language] (00:04)

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Third Quarter Results Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Richard G. Roy, President of Uni-Sélect. [Foreign Language] (00:17) Please go ahead, Mr. Roy.

[Foreign Language] (00:28) Thank you and welcome to our Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call at Uni-Sélect. My name is Richard Roy, I'm President and CEO. With me today in this room, Mr. Denis Mathieu, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Gary O'Connor, Executive Vice President; Mr. William Alexander – Willy Alexander, Executive Vice President; and also joining us over the phone, Dan Courtney, who is President of FinishMaster.

We'd like to remind you that since January 1, 2011 the corporation has chosen the U.S. dollar as its reporting currency in its consolidated financial statements and our interim financial statements have been prepared in accordance with policies set under First-time Adoption of the IFRS.

So if we look at the third quarter financial highlights versus last year, the sales for the quarter were $137 million higher than last year at $472 million. The increase in revenues compared to last year has mainly made up the acquisition of FinishMaster, which added $119 million, a variation in currency exchange rate that has added $9 million and also the changes in sales for organic reasons that were positive 4.1% for the quarter. And when we break it down between the two jurisdictions where we operate in Canada, the sales increased by $11 million or 8.2%, while in the U.S., the sales organic increase was $7.4 million or 2.4%.

For the third quarter, the net earnings were $16.6 million, $0.77 per share. This represents an increase of 26.5% in dollars and 15% in per share amounts, compared to last year at $0.67 per share. Once adjusted for the non-recurring items such as the implementation, our enterprise resource planning and the reorganization expenses, adjusted earnings were $17.2 million or $0.79 per share, compared to last year's, that was $0.73 per share.

For the nine months now, the sales for the nine months ended September were $364 million higher than last year at $1.344 billion. Again, the increase in revenue versus last year is impacted by the acquisition of FinishMaster, which added $336 million to our revenues. Just currency exchange of fluctuation added $23 million and increase in sales for organic reasons were positive 2.3% year-to-date and that 2.3% is broken down again between the two jurisdictions, 4.1% or $16 million in Canada, while in the U.S., the organic sales increase was $14 million or 1.5%.

For nine months year-to-date period, the net earnings were $44.8 million or $2.07 per share. This is, again, an increase of 28.5% in dollars and 17% in per share amounts compared to last year at $1.77. Once adjusted for non-recurrent items, again, a gain on disposal of assets, acquisition expenses, the ERP implementation and reorganization expenses, adjusted earnings were $47.7 million or $2.20 per share compared to last year at $1.91.

So let's talk about the operations for a minute here, and I will start with the Canadian performance, which was very good. The Canadian sales posted an organic growth of 8.2% during the quarter and $11 million year-over-year. And for the first nine months, that's 4.1% organic growth or $16 million. Even though sales increased, we continued to work on reducing our cost structure and we have closed some warehouses in Canada, Kelowna, Regina, Quebec City and all jobbers were successfully transferred to other locations.

The productivity in the quarter though has been somewhat affected by the moves that we've made from warehouse to other warehouses, but also, the implementation of our ERP in Moncton and the preparation for the deployment in Winnipeg and Calgary, and I'll come back to that successful deployment later on in my presentation. Overall, in Canada, product insulations continues to be very, very low, actually, inexistent, even negative. And as such, profit on inventories remain at an all time low.

From a sales point of view, we had a very good quarter. As you can see, the early fourth quarter sales, the indications are good. They're in line with what we've seen previously. And anecdotal evidence suggest that the level of activities remain good in the garages, which really gives us a good feeling sales wise for the fourth quarter.

Now let's talk about the U.S. As mentioned before, the sales for the third quarter of 2011 or as mentioned, the sales for the fourth quarter – the third quarter 2011 were up 58% of which 2.4% is organic. Year-to-date, the sales are up 55%, 1.5% of that being organic. Now when we look at the operations, we are not pleased at all with the reduction of margin in the U.S., which was closer to approximately 2% and having to do with two main elements, one of them being the gross margin and one of them was the increase in delivery cost due to the increase in energy. The lower margin, basically, was a factor of a couple different elements, unfavorable changes in product mix and also in direct and warehouse logistics mix. But more importantly, pressure on selling prices to some prevailing economic conditions that I will have to admit were not counteracted on in a timely manner. The increase in delivery cost, as I said, also affected our operating cost.

So more importantly, what are we doing and what can you expect in future quarters with regards to that lower gross margin in the U.S.? Well, we have revised several price schedules that have been implemented in August and some more changes are going in in November, actually went in on November 1. And there will be some more changes as we go along to rectify some of our gross margin.

Furthermore, additional supplier supports were obtained in areas where we needed their support to continue to maintain our – and even increase our market shares with their products. So the cumulative impact of those two measures on an annual basis so far, we do expect will improve earnings by about $8 million a year.

Furthermore, we continue to work on cost management, streamlining our delivery routes to order to reduce the delivery cost and impact on fuel cost and we've also reduced our labor by about $2 million on an annual basis. So the sum of all of that is about $10 million in annual improvements. So about $2.5 million quarterly, but we expect seeing the impact of these initiatives in the fourth quarter. We will continue, by the way, to streamline the cost and streamline also pricing, in order to rectify some of the issues that we had in the quarter.

Looking at some of the operations, I will tell you, just to follow up on some other additional items that we've covered in previous quarters that we continue to deploy the Beck/Arnley product in our stores in the U.S. and that we are very successful on increasing our sales for foreign name plate vehicles. And as we do that, we're also eliminating product duplications and this penetration strategy is working well, as we are showing a great increase in the foreign name plates.

At FinishMaster, a very important change, really, Mr. Dan Courtney, who was formerly the Executive Vice President of Operations, has replaced Mr. J.A. Lacy as President of FinishMaster, and that's why, Dan is joining us on this call today. So welcome, Dan. Mr. Lacy. Mr. Lacy will leave the organization at the end of this week to take over the position of President at LDI, the family-controlled holding company. I'd like to thank J.A. for his support and his dedication throughout the integration of our mutual operations. We really enjoyed him and his contribution. So again, thank you very much, Jay.

Now Dan has been a key member of the management team and the leadership group at FinishMaster and he's been there for several years. And over the last decade, Dan certainly was very instrumental in growing FinishMaster. He's a keen strategic thinker and one of the leaders, now supporting the integration with the Uni-Sélect operations. So we're very happy to have Dan in that position.

So FinishMaster, during the quarter, has exceeded the expectations that we had and the integration is going very well. What we can tell you is that the overhead reductions of $2 million that we had announced for 2011 will be realized and exceeded. Actually, our annual run rate for synergies is more in the range of $6 million and we do believe that the impact on the 2011 results will be more like $3.5 million. So that will also contribute to improve margin.

Branch consolidation began with the first three locations merged in August and October and we do expect to have more locations, four of them in the first quarter of 2012. And we're targeting one consolidation per month in 2012. The acquisition of Parts Depot in Florida that we completed, not that long ago, has also added six more consolidation opportunities.

I alluded earlier in my presentation to the implementation of our ERP, we have had significant and successful milestones during the last quarter. Following the successful implementation of the finance module in the second quarter of last year, we have rolled out the master files early this year and the operational modules in two of our warehouses in April. This was our so called pilot program.

During the summer, we worked at completing all the operational testing, enhancing the applications following those pilots. All of that was deployed on October 3. And as we have previously mentioned and announced, on November 3, we successfully launched the first wave of warehouse implementations, where five warehouses and 12 stores were brought under the SAP umbrella.

That was successful. It went fine. And going forward, we are planning a wave of five or six warehouses to be launched every quarter of 2012, so that we could complete the process during the first quarter of 2013. I will remind you that the optimization of sales, the improved margin management, the distribution activities, as well as the asset management are at the heart of the benefits that we expect from this initiative.

I'll talk briefly about the financial position. At the end of the third quarter, the total net debt amounted to $325 million, excluding our convertible debentures, as compared to $385 million as at the end of March, a significant decrease of $60 million in six months. The total net debt to invested capital has reached 38.4% as compared to 43% earlier this year.

You probably all know that on October 26, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Parts Depot, an organization located in Florida. This acquisition adds 39 stores, two warehouses and, three pick-up warehouses to our operation for an estimated gross acquisition cost of $33 million.

Now during the fourth quarter, the last quarter of the year, we will rebuild the payable amount, estimated at approximately $9 million, so we will have a net investment of $24 million for this acquisition, which is estimated to contribute to annual revenues by about $87 million.

So if we look at the overall environment in the aftermarket with the age of the vehicles and the number of vehicles in operation, these are very favorable elements. We do see also some early sign of increase in consumer spending in the U.S. and also some easing up on the unemployment situation, which really should help the future of the aftermarket. Obviously, the high gas prices are continuing to impede miles driven, which really are trending at a 1.2% decrease year-over-year and that's not so positive. But at the end of the day, considering the age of the vehicle, the number of vehicles in operation, a small embellishment in the economic condition in the U.S., we remain very positive about the market fundamentals of the aftermarket.

So in conclusion, during the next quarters, we will continue to focus on the following objectives, and the first and foremost is to improve the operating margins for our U.S. operation, mainly, in the area of gross profit improvement , a reduction of delivery cost, all of this in line with the previously mentioned action plan. We will also maintain the cost reductions such as the salaries, such as some of our benefits. We've changed our policy on paid time off and all kinds of elements like that. And I will repeat it, we see cumulative impact of those measures already been in place at this stage of about $10 million on an annual basis. And we keep working on revising pricing and getting additional support from vendors and additional cost reduction in our network of warehouses.

We will continue to pursue the integration of FinishMaster and initiate the integration of our latest acquisition in Florida. This is going very well. We are going to be exceeding the targets that we had announced originally. And of course, the pursuit of the orderly deployment of the enterprise resource planning system, while ensuring a smooth transition for not only our resources, but more importantly, for our customers over the next few months.

We're confident and committed to the continuous profitability growth that will come from the sound management of assets and working capital that will be derived from that implementation and other measures. And that we expect will lead to a reduction of the debt in the future.

So this completes our third quarter review. We are now ready for your questions. Please feel free to ask your questions, either in French or in English. And we will answer you in the same language. Thank you very much.

So Christine, if you could please go for the questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (17:40) The first question is from Anthony Zicha. [Foreign Language] (17:51) Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. With reference to the EBITDA margin decline, can you give us a bit more color and more specifically, how much was the impact due to energy prices or product price declines in product mix, Richard?

Basically, on the – for the first nine months of the year, the energy cost and the delivery cost is about $1.7 million, if I'm not mistaken. And in terms of the margin, we're talking about 2% overall. And I will tell you that the balance of that, 2% on the U.S. operation, and the balance of that is fairly much due to the margin – the gross margin.

And when we look at the gross margin, obviously, there is still – there were some economic pressures or competitive pressures that forced us to adjust some prices to make sure that we were not giving up market share. Unfortunately, we, I think, delayed a little bit some of the adjustments upwards in other categories where the competitive situation was not as – how should I say that, as significant. So at the end of the day, we have been leaving a little bit of dollars on the table.

I will tell you that the – part of the element also is the fact that we have seen our warehouse shipments, not grow as quickly as the drop ship in the U.S. And as short term, it's a bit of a pain on the margin and we'll have to compensate for that in reducing cost and streamlining our network. But longer term, it's a positive development because it certainly makes our independent jobbers very, very competitive in the marketplace, which really can help us. So I would tell you that it's about, one-third is due to the cost of the fuel and two-thirds is on the margin.

Okay. Richard, with reference to foreign car parts, is it fair to say that there was no price decline in the foreign part category, but more relating to the North American parts?

Yes, that's fair. I would even tell you that we put through at late September though, a price increase there. So you're right.

Okay. Are you comfortable with the 2% to 3% organic growth rate going forward?

I would tell you that if I look at the early monthly trend, I am comfortable with even more than that.

So more bullish than that.

A little bit more bullish. I have to admit something here that I'm not very happy to say, but I will tell you anyway because I think it will make you understand a little bit better what's going on here. We announced 8% organic increase in Canada during the third quarter. You will – you know, Tony because you know us very well that about 50% of our volume in Canada is done on a drop ship basis.

And while we know the orders, we have to wait for confirmation of expedition through the billing from our manufacturers and almost all of that is done quite frankly by regular mail. Now you know that in late August and late June and early July, we had a postal strike. So there was some shipments that we didn't get notified of until last year we published the Q2 result. So if you were to restate the 2% organic growth in Canada that we published in Q2 and the 8% that we published in Q3, and put those sales in the right quarter, you'd have two solid quarters of 5% organic growth. And if I look at the October sales, the early indication there is that we are maintaining and even exceeding slightly that rate. So I'm very happy about that.

As unhappy as I am about the U.S. result, I can tell you that after two very slow months in July and August, September was better, sales wise, and we've seen also an increase in October. I can also tell you that we have implemented some of the measures in terms of reducing cost and improving margin in early summer and very slowly, but we started seeing some impact at the end of Q3. And as abysmal as we're – we can see on the U.S. margin it would have been worse if we hadn't done, and we're beginning to see some additional incremental improvements in October. And as we have put through some additional increases in November, we do believe that we'll see better margin than what we have experienced in the third quarter during the fourth quarter.

Okay. Quickly, one last one, what's your dividend policy and could we anticipate a dividend increase in 2012?

The answer to that is that our dividend policy has been to pay 20% of the previous year earnings. And given that our earnings are up at the end of September, about 17% on an earnings per share basis, I think that you can expect this type of increase in 2012 dividends.

Okay, excellent. Thank you very much.

You're welcome, Tony.

Thank you. The next question is from Jessy Hayem. [Foreign Language] (23:50) Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks for all the details. We're actually having a hard time asking questions here. You provided a lot of details, but still a clarification, Richard. You've talked about sort of the one time that affected your results in Canada, regarding sort of being notified late on some of these shipments, which would even out the quarters at about 5%, that's correct. So that's roughly what you see still, I guess going forward as far as organic growth rate, at least in Canada?

Well, I will tell you and I will qualify that, that right now, what I'm seeing after five weeks of operation in Q4 is I have no reason to see differently. Now what it will be next week or the week after, I don't know yet, Jessy. But after five weeks of operation, we feel comfortable with the last two quarters' trend.

Okay. So other than this one-off, I guess related to being notified late with the postal strike and so on, there was nothing else that you deem non-recurring, I guess in terms of your gains in the quarter in Canada?

That's right.

Okay. And then, is it fair to say that some of the competition that you had seen from sort of U.S. competition coming into Canada has abated a little, given sort of the currency?

Well, I'll tell you that what we did last year to assist there is helping us this year. So we feel more comfortable with that.

I see. And then back on the margin side of things, a couple questions there. The fact that you're – I guess as you're saying pricing correctly, is it – can you just give me a bit more color, were you not pricing correctly in certain markets and you've adjusted that or what exactly are you doing in that regard?

Well, basically, what it is is that, as we tried to refine everything that we do, we do a lot of price comparison and price shopping and so on and so forth. And we realized that quite frankly, to be competitive with some of the competitors out there, the larger guys, we needed to adjust in some very sensitive pricing areas that very often have a full effect on other categories if you're not up to there.

So on few lines, quite frankly, we have to adjust downwards to protect our market share, and that's really what the impact of that that has happened. Unfortunately, and I will tell you that unfortunately, we're guilty as charged there, which should have been done also is that other lines, we should have been in a position to increase pricing because they are not as sensitive and that has been delayed to sometime in Q3 and we're seeing some late Q3 impact and early Q4, more positive impact and we keep going there.

So that's really what happened and I certainly am not proud of it, but that's the reality and no use trying to fudge those facts.

Okay, fair enough. And then, did I hear you correctly when you said that the warehouse shipments did not grow as quickly in the U.S. as the drop ship?

Definitely, definitely.

Okay, maybe I'll circle back with you off the call, because I'm a little confused there. I thought that you were trying to actually grow the drop ship faster in the U.S. or it's not at the same level as in Canada, still -

That's what I said. The drop ship are growing faster than the warehouse ship in the U.S.

Okay. And then the savings that you've outlined, the $8 million from that margin enhancement and then the $2 million, are you – so call it run rate of $10 million – are you currently at that run rate right now, the $10 million in savings?

That's beginning to materialize. So the answer, I would say is yes. And until I've seen it I'm always, but yes, the fact is what we have done already in August up to the end of October and early in November for the rest is at that $10 million run rate.

Okay, and then maybe two quick ones, if I may. The departure of J.A. Lacy, was that sort of what prompted it? Or maybe just a bit more clarification, I get the sense he's going to run a sort of a family business?

Well, basically, I don't want to talk for Jay, but I know he's leaving on very good terms. Actually, I am very honored to count him as a friend and we'll continue to be close. Jay is going back to the family business. The president of LDI has announced his retirement. He's been asked to go back and take over as president. Under the circumstances, you will understand that this was a very natural and understandable move. I think if you were talk to him, he would tell you that he was enjoying it with us, but I think you can put yourself in his shoes. That's really what happened.

Very importantly though, as we had Dan Courtney, who had been there for several years also working with Jay, and you met Dan at the Investor Day that we had last month, a very knowledgeable fellow, very instrumental in the growth and the management of FinishMaster over the years. So we're very happy about that.

Okay, great. One final one for Denis, on the tax rate, you had provided a range of 21% to 22% for the full year, we're at about 16% in the quarter. What drove it down this quarter and are you still aiming for 21%, 22% for the year and going forward?

Okay, it's a very good question. Unfortunately, what we did not expect is this drop of the margin in the U.S. and as you know, the U.S. tax rate is higher. So having less profit from our U.S. operation, the average tax rate was impacted positively. So the only – that's the only reason. So technically, on an annual basis, the 21%, 22% is still applicable. As soon as you know, we're going to reverse the trend with respect to the margin.

I guess, Jessy, that's not often that you will hear a CEO say that he hopes that the tax rate overall goes up.

Fair enough. Thank you very much.

Thank you. The next question is from Elaine Lae. [Foreign Language] (29:58) Please go ahead.

Thank you. Just turning to [ph] MD&A (30:03) and it points to perhaps some price inflation in the U.S. I'm just wondering if this so and if it's going into Q4 you're seeing the same thing and if there's any kind of inventory position you guys are taking to take advantage?

Yeah. We have seen some price inflation in the U.S. Certainly, we see deflation in Canada and we've seen a little bit of inflation in the U.S. and there has been some inventory positions and they're certainly on the paint side, where there has been some significant price increases. We have increased inventory to take advantage of some of that.

Would you say it was – in Q3 if it's material? The price...

I would tell you that in terms of Q3, it's probably something like about $10 million worth of inventory that was added through that. I'm going from memory here, but that's pretty much what it would be.

Yeah, it would be higher for the fourth quarter, mainly due to the Paint business.

Yes. But for the third quarter that's what it was.

Mostly for Paint. Okay. And on the rising fuel cost, I recall that you had a gas surcharge. Just wondering, did that may be – maybe that was an old – later, if you brought it back or what ways are you just trying to find to combat that rising fuel cost?

No, we are rising. We have put in place such high fuel cost surcharge. We've even increased it a little bit. But understand that half of our shipments from our warehouses are going to our own stores. So even if I increase the fuel surcharge from one to the other for the company as a whole, it doesn't do much to help us. What we are doing though is we are streamlining some of our delivery routes. That's something that we started a while ago, so if we hadn't done that, it would've been even worse.

The other thing that we're doing also is we're putting in place a program where we are basically renewing the fleet to have more official fuel efficient vehicles, reduce, repair – fuel cost and repair cost and ensure a greater dispatch rate. So these are all elements that are being done, but in the environment where we're buying an awful lot of fuel, and quite frankly, all of those measures only slow down the rate of growth and that's unfortunately not enough to offset everything.

And last question, just more to remind myself that on the ERP, just what kind of benefits – I mean, as you guys will be obviously done into 2013, what kind of benefit do you see on an annual basis in future years?

Basically, what we had announced before was $15 million worth of additional annual EBITDA, going after the third year after we're live. I will tell you that, and I'm not going to give you additional figure here because I need to go back, but with the expansion of our companies and the additional acquisitions, we do believe that there will be more than that. But for the moment, it would be a little premature on my part to announce that. But we announced $15 million. We remain committed to that as a minimum.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] [Foreign Language] (33:24) The next question is from Anthony Zicha. [Foreign Language] (33:28) Please go ahead.

Richard, do you believe that the after the market cycle is getting longer? In fact, typically, we used to believe there would be a five to 10-year cycle. And do you believe that with the acquisition of FinishMaster, it will reduce your cyclicality?

That's a great point. We certainly do believe that the traditional after market is getting longer in the model years that it serves. We used to say five to 10. It's probably more to five to almost 15 right now, I would say, 13, 14 years. Model years are being basically very active in terms of demand for parts because vehicles are better built, they last longer. And consumers, the way they're being used to their cars now drives them longer.

Obviously, with the Paint business, it is extending to the first few years of ownership and the new units sold the market potential. In the collision repair centers, the vehicles that tend to be basically repaired there are the early year's model where collisions tend to be repaired, older year models, either the car is not repaired, it's driven like that or it's being totaled. So you're quite right. The addition of FinishMaster expands the number of model years that we can sell parts or paint for.

Okay. Well, thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Jessy Hayem. Please go ahead. [Foreign Language] (35:16)

Thanks. A follow-up on the FinishMaster, I believe you had started with some cross selling or selling some auto extra lubricants and you were going to introduce coolants. What has been the reception there and have you since introduced any more products into FinishMaster's network?

Dan Courtney, would you want to answer that one for me, please?

Yes. We have added consumables such as oil, refrigerant and anti-freeze, very basic commodities. The acceptance has been not overwhelming from a sales standpoint, but we are penetrating our customer base and we've got at least half of our sales force selling the products. So we still have time to ramp up in that case. It will be accretive to sales.

Okay, thanks. And then, if I can get back on to the ERP, so far this year, I believe you've expensed about $2 million pre-tax, if I'm correct. What do you expect this figure to be for the year and then in 2012 as well?

It's a very good question. We are expecting approximately the same number for the fourth quarter, okay? So technically, this quarter, it was $0.5 million to the expense. So over and above last year, which was one – let me think, year-to-date. Mathieu, I need your help on this one. Yeah, that's $2 million year-to-date, as compared to last year, $3.8 million. And at the end of the year, it will be close to $2.5 million and next year, technically, the only thing that we will book as an expense will be the training and the implementation and change management, a lot of things that we cannot for the four or five waves that we're going to have to implement. So technically, next year, it will be billed, that $2.5 million. So probably, $1.5 million that we're going to go to – that will go to the P&L. And technically, we, based on our action plan, we believe that we will have enough benefits to cover that $1.5 million.

Okay, great. And then, any thoughts on, I guess – I realize the market is fragmented here and there could be some acquisition opportunities out there, but it seems to me you have your hands full with both FinishMaster and Parts Depot. And any thoughts there on potential acquisitions and the comfort level with your debt leverage at, I believe, three times net debt to EBITDA? Thanks.

That's a very good question. I will tell you that I was at the industry convention last week in Las Vegas and there is still some opportunities for expansion through acquisition if we wanted to. I will tell you though that we're very comfortable with the FinishMaster acquisition, even though it's very large, the integration is well in process and it's progressing really at a faster clip than we thought. We've got great people there that we trust and as I said earlier, we are in line to meet our – to expectation.

Then anything that we would do on the acquisition level would have to be very well-targeted and probably to improve some footprint density, so that we could have even more synergies and so on and so forth. Our – there is no doubt in my mind though that our short-term goal is to reduce the debt and increase margin. That's really what we're focused 100% right now. The acquisitions, as you very well know, you followed us for a long time, are opportunistic in nature, but we are going to be very selective, if there's anything. Again, I stress it, right now, the order of the day or the priorities are reduce the debt and improve operating margins, especially in the U.S.

Good to hear. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Otto Cheung. [Foreign Language] (39:33) Please go ahead. [Foreign Language] (39:36)

Thanks. Good afternoon. Just a quick question on your opportunities for national accounts in Florida, you previously mentioned that you may be seeing some more opportunities for getting larger national accounts. Can you just give us an update on that?

Basically, all I will tell you is that there is a lot of national accounts that we're already serving who have locations in Florida. And as we integrate the operation there, that will improve our coverage for those accounts. So that will allow us to basically be a better suitor for those accounts and be allocated more territories to cover it. So there is companies such as Tire Kingdom, such as Pep Boys and so on and so forth, who are present in those markets and that we like to deal with and have agreements and could expense our presence with them.

Okay, great. Thanks. That's all I had.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. So I'll turn the meeting back over to Mr. Roy.

Well, thank you very much for your interest in Uni-Sélect and your view of our third quarter result. I will, at the risk of repeating myself, I will tell you that we have already taken some measures to counteract the decline in the margins that we have experienced in the third quarter in the U.S. We feel that some of the measures that are already in place are going to improve that margin in the coming quarters and following quarters. These measures are not completely done. We still have some work to do and the – this is very much the focus that we have in the reduction of the indebtedness overall.

This being said, we are pleased with the organic growth that we have experienced and we do expect to continue in that vein. So thank you very much for your interest and I look forward to talk to you in the future. Take care, everyone.

Thank you. The call has now ended. Please disconnect your telephone line at this time. Thank you for your participation.