Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Manager-Investor Relations & Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Chief Financial Officer & EVP-Corporate Services, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — Chief Operating Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President & Chief Operating Officer-Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President and Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Sami Abboud — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Michael Glen — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the 2015 First Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. And welcome to Uni-Sélect's 2015 first quarter financial results conference call. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and Chief Executive Officer; Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer; as well as Henry Buckley, Chief Operating Officer. Also joining me this afternoon are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster; and Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Uni-Sélect Canada.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our latest annual report, available on SEDAR, as well as in the press release issued earlier today.

I will now turn the call over to Richard Roy who will provide feedback on the operational highlights of the last quarter. Denis Mathieu will then go over some of the key financial highlights for Q1 and Henry Buckley will discuss the strategy and priorities going forward. After their presentations, we will open up the call to questions.

Richard?

Thank you very much, Karine, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us.

Let's immediately turn to our performance in the first quarter of 2015. We entered this fiscal year with the confidence our new sales and banner programs would enable us to attract new customers and lead to positive top line growth results. Indeed, on a consolidated organic basis, our sales increased by one-half of 1%. Excluding the results of the U.S. activities that will be included in the disposition transaction, our organic growth would have been 2.7% during the first quarter. Our consolidated sales decreased by $0.03 of a point to reach $412 million, mainly due to the unfavorable impact of $11 million related to the declining Canadian dollar value during the quarter versus last year and in spite of the additional sales provided by our acquisitions.

It has been said clearly before fiscal 2014 was about gaining increased agility, operational efficiency and growing our margins. Fiscal 2015 is about our commitment to delivering sales growth. In light of that, there is no question that the sales performance recorded in the first quarter is not yet to the level we want our growth to be. It is also clear to us that some of the strength in Canadian sales during the last quarter of 2014 came from the acceleration of purchases by [ph] two (03:07) large customers prior to the price increases announced by manufacturers. This affected our first month of the first quarter this year very negatively. Furthermore, we saw a shift in the timing of our sales in some of our markets from March to April. So far, April sales are stronger than last year.

From an operational standpoint, we have continued to improve our private label offering in both Canada and also at FinishMaster. Beside, early in the first quarter, we proceeded to the inauguration of our new national distribution center in the Greater Toronto area. With over 100,000 square feet, our new state-of-the-art facility features over $14 million in inventory. With our full slate of private label product lines in stock, our new center contribute to an improved order execution and delivery experience for our Canadian customers from coast to coast. We are also making great progress with the opening of the fourth FinishMaster distribution center in the U.S. This new location in New Jersey will allow us to improve our efficiency and better serve collision repair shops and multi-stop owner-operators on the East Coast.

Now a brief word on the sale of the assets of Uni-Sélect USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts that was announced on February 9. We expect that it will close during the second quarter as we continue to iron out the last transition details. We wish to ensure an optimal transition for our customers, our fellow team members, our business partners, as well as across all of our IT tools and business intelligence infrastructure. This transaction would allow us to dedicate more resources to accelerate growth in both our Canadian and FinishMaster operations where we are leaders. From financial and strategic point of view, it is obvious that this transaction is excellent for both parties.

Now over to our Chief Financial Officer, Denis Mathieu.

Thank you, Richard and good afternoon everyone.

As a reminder all of the first quarter results present today and on this call include the American automotive operations of the U.S. – of the Uni-Sélect, given the sales of these assets remains to be closed and do not qualify to be treated as discontinued operations.

Following the announcement of the transaction, we have introduced information based on three reportable segments. Also in order to facilitate the understanding of the post closing financial profile of the corporation, we have added some forward-looking information.

Accordingly, sales of our paint and related products segment reached $148 million in the first quarter, a 9% increase over the same period last year and a 6.6% growth on an organic basis. The automotive products segment, which includes our product distribution operations in both Canada and U.S., generated $264 million in sales, a decrease of 4.9% or 2.5% organically. The results of our automotive products were impacted by the weakness of the Canadian dollar, as well as by the closing or sales of some stores and warehouses. These factors were partially offset by the revenue generated by our related acquisitions.

Our first quarter EBITDA was negative $122 million, mainly due to the reorganization in Q1 – sorry mainly due to the re-commission in Q1 of intangible impairment and transaction charges, totaling $139 million. Excluding the impairment, the adjusted EBITDA reached $19 million, a decline of $1.3 million compared to the first quarter of 2014. The lower exchange rates also add a negative impact of $0.5 million.

I think it's worth to mention three important considerations that directly impacted our first quarter results. The first consideration is directly related to the seasonality of our sales and for which we've noted a significant shift of some of our sales from the first quarter to the second one.

The second one pertains to the price increases in both business segments but, more importantly, in Canada due to a lower Canadian currency. We anticipated these price increases and we ramped up purchases during the first quarter to take advantage of our lower purchase prices, as well, available employees work hours in Canada, resulting from the decreased sales volume during the first quarter, were reassigned to put away these additional purchases. This strategic use of our workforce, while temporary negative to our cost, will translate into higher efficiency, product availability and profit margins in the quarters to come. It's also explained why our inventory levels and debt are temporary higher in June.

Finally, the expense related to the stock-based compensation program increased by $1 million for the quarter due to the recent share price increases. This explains most of the EBITDA short-fall versus last year. With this three factor in mind, the adjusted earning increased by 3.2% to reach $10 million or $0.40 per share compared to $0.47 per share compared to $0.46 last year.

Once converted in Canadian dollar, adjusted earnings per share reached $0.58 for the first quarter, up 13.7% compared to $0.51 in 2014. The effect of the decline in Canadian dollar which fell to its lowest rate in six years over the course of the first quarter, should continue to be a factor during the next few quarters when comparing our converted Canadian dollar with the prior year, even if the currency fluctuation do not have an impact on our cash flow. When you take into account the mainly noncash accounting loss of $90 million related to intangible impairment, the corporation recorded a net loss of $82 million or $3.88 per share.

At the end of the quarter, our debt stood at $299 million compared to $260 million on December 31, 2014. This increase is mainly explained by a temporary fluctuation of our working capital and the acquisitions closed during the first quarter.

Finally, as mentioned by Richard, we expect the sales of assets, Uni-Sélect USA and Beck/Arnley to be closed during the second quarter. Following the closing, the corporation expects to generate on an annual basis sales of approximately $1.1 billion; of which approximately 55% will be in U.S.A. The adjusted EBITDA will be in the range of 7% to 8%. And our balance sheet will be debt free. For your information, the effective income tax rate will increase to approximately 35%.

Going forward, the transaction will also significantly reduce the level of capital expenditures required to support the remaining operations.

So this concludes my financial review. Over to you, Henry.

Great. Thank you, Denis. Hello, everyone.

Maybe first start off by saying how pleased and humbled I am by the confidence vested in me by the board today in today's announcement. It really is a true honor. Over the past years, Uni-Sélect has set itself apart by upholding the highest standards of professionalism, commitment to performance and passion for a superior customer service. These are currently three fundamental principles that I and each member of our Uni-Sélect team are completely dedicated to maintain in the years ahead.

Now as I noted today in today's AGM, our focus is clearly to accelerate profitable growth. And we're going to do so through a balance of organic and acquisitive growth. And our growth is clearly focused on two of our chosen markets. Our two chosen markets are the automotive refinish market in North America – that is in both USA and Canada – and secondly the automotive parts aftermarket in Canada. And we're very fortunate that have a leadership position in both of those markets.

Over the course of the first quarter of fiscal 2015, FinishMaster concluded the acquisition of a company called Sea Hawk Refinish Line. Sea Hawk is based out of Clearwater, Florida and they serve the Greater Tampa Bay area. They became the 28th location of FinishMaster in Florida alone and that brings our corporate store network at FinishMaster in the U.S. to 168 stores and growing.

In Canada, we announced in early March, the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the equity interest in Wilter Auto & Industrial Supply in Alberta. Wilter is a long-time customer of Uni-Sélect. It's a highly regarded automotive and industrial parts wholesaler in Northern Alberta and they have revenues of about $25 million and a network of seven stores. Those seven stores now bring our total to a total of 21 corporate stores – automotive corporate stores in Canada.

So finally, the Uni-Sélect team is again highly focused on accelerating profitable growth and what that means to us is really simply we hold a leadership position in our chosen markets and our goal is to extend that lead. We have a distribution infrastructure. We have systems and processes to enable that growth. We're highly focused on delivering value to our customers and suppliers and helping them win. We have a balanced growth strategy moving forward of organic and acquisitive growth. And most importantly, we have the best team in the business. So I'm very proud and honored to be part of the team and again, humbled by the announcement of today and I'm looking forward to a very bright future here at Uni-Sélect.

And that concludes my remarks. Richard, back to you.

Thank you very much, Henry.

Before we open the call to questions, I wish to reiterate how important creating value for our shareholders is for Uni-Sélect and to each and every one of the members of the management team. It is the key determining factor behind each of our strategic decisions. In this context, I'm particularly pleased that the Uni-Sélect share price has recorded such solid growth, up 44.4% so far in 2015 versus the TSX Index that's up 4.9%.

This performance illustrates the soundness of the recent transformational decisions we have made. With the same key principle in mind, I'm pleased to announce that our Board of Directors approved earlier today a 7% increase in our dividend from $0.15 per share in 2014 to $0.16 per share. This decision reflects the board's and management's commitment and level of confidence in our future.

Speaking of the future, as you probably all know having seen the announcement earlier today, I have announced my decision to retire on July 31, 2015, and the board has appointed Henry Buckley as my successor effective August 1. This is obviously an emotion charged decision given the number of years that I have spent here at Uni-Sélect and my pride in seeing the strong position in which the company is today.

But more importantly, I will be retiring with a strong confidence that an exciting future awaits Uni-Sélect. I know that Uni-Sélect will be in very good hands. And that Henry will make it progress even further. He has my full support.

Let me conclude my remarks today by thanking all the members of our team for another great quarter of progress and profitability. And now, we are ready to answer your questions. Paul, could you please help us?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead. Your line is now open.

Yeah. Thank you very much for taking my questions, and congratulations, Henry, for your new role. Just for the first question, I was wondering whether you could provide more color and break down the performance of your automotive division between Canada and U.S. I'm just trying to look whether there is a big discrepancy between both regions?

Basically, what I can tell you, Benoit, is that both divisions had negative organic sales of the same range which is 2.5%, and mainly due to as we said on the Canadian side to the -- some of the shifts that we had, strong sales in the last quarter of 2014, and a little bit of a movement that we saw from March to April. That's really in terms of the top line where the discrepancy came from the Canadian operation.

In terms of profitability, obviously our Canadian operation is much more profitable than our U.S. operation but the lack of sales obviously did not help during the quarter. Gary, any words that you'd like to add?

Well, the only thing I would add is that we're confident that we did not lose market share than we probably even gained some market share with some acquisitions that some of our members have made. So basically, it's just a timing issue that we've experienced in Q1. And that we're seeing right now that things are picking up already. So we're confident for the year.

Okay. This is very good color. And just with respect to the timing of delayed seasonal maintenance, would you expect this to create kind of a pent-up demand for Q2 or you might be facing a tough compare, because when I look at organic growth sales in Canada, this was up 6.8% a year ago in Q2. So just wondering, if you – we could get some color?

Well, in the first quarter, the thing I will tell you is that so far in April, and I will only talk to that, our sales are ahead of last year, okay, in Canada on the automotive side. And even in the U.S. also, which is a good element, but let's talk about more on the Canadian side. Besides that, difficult to go further than that. Gary?

Yeah. I was only going to say that, yes they are – we have great sales increase in April, but what's interesting, it's across all regions, across Canada, even in the Prairies where the economic difficulties have been in newspapers every day. We are seeing some good demand in April. So as I said, we think we're very confident going forward. The timing of price increases and weather and the customer impacts will be different from region to regions but I think we all saw it coming around.

Okay. And if we look at FinishMaster, very strong EBITDA margin performance in the quarter. Once we look at your target of 7%, 8% pro forma basis, it implies that Canada must be running somewhere between 2% and 4%. Is it a fair statement and maybe the question is for Henry, where could you bring the margin up over time in Canada?

Before Henry answers, how he is going to bring the margin up, I want to tell you, unfortunately that the assumption is wrong, I think you're just not taking into consideration the corporate expenses.

Yeah. Okay, very good.

Think that there is always element to improve in it, Henry wants to add some words there. We're always looking at that.

Yeah, I think you heard it saying on. I think we've got a solid EBITDA in Canada today so we're pretty proud of that. I think that as you know certainly room to grow, but we're going to continue to focus on that, coupled with the top line. So we've got a good great business in FinishMaster delivering great results. We have an equally strong business in Canada. And I think the outlook for that is very positive.

Okay, perfect. And just in terms of head office, you were in the process of streamlining the operation. I look at your corporate costs, they went up $1 million year-over-year. There is probably something unusual. Should we expect this amount to go down in the coming quarters?

Yeah, Benoit, don't forget that we mentioned that the quarter was impacted by the stock-based compensation program by $1 million. So if you remove that, there is no increase year-over-year, okay?

I see, I see. Good point. And last question before I pass the line. Could you give us any update on the M&A, what do you see going forward?

Well, Henry, do you want to take that one?

Yeah. In terms of M&A, this is going to be a part of our strategy moving forward. As you can see it already is so far in the first quarter. We're working on a number of opportunities in both businesses FinishMaster and Canada. I think that in Canada, let me say, there is a consolidation of the independent jobbers out there. And we're going to be in the forefront of that making sure we're there to protect the market share we currently enjoy and use that as an opportunity to grow.

So that means that we're going to have to have a competency in terms of operating corporate stores. So a moment ago, I shared with you, we have currently 21 corporate stores in Canada. I view that number to grow significant over time. And that will grow and our competency and our ability to execute and operate those stores will also equally grow. We're very good at that in the U.S. business. We did a good job of that in automotive U.S. FinishMaster has 168 locations, so we know how to run the corporate stores. We're going to build that competency into the Canadian business and continue to operate stores and more stores in Canada.

So I think that gives you a picture moving forward. I would expect to see more in the future. The same goals with FinishMaster, we announced one here this past quarter. We continue to build out the model in FinishMaster and we build out that model in FinishMaster to do two things quite frankly. One is to build some density in existing markets in Canada or in the U.S. business rather in FinishMaster. So geographically across the U.S., we have to fill out some markets in terms of the density. And then we equally have to build out in some geographies we're not covering today in the U.S. And that's critical for us as we focus on the MSOs and multi-store owners of the body shops. We need to be where they're going. So we need to make sure, we have the right footprint in the U.S. So I think both of those things in FinishMaster, say, density and geography, and since we're going to be acquiring companies and opening up new locations and again equally in the Canada with our corporate store program.

Okay. Thanks very much for the color.

If I may add, we're also looking at basically warehouse distributors also and other type of potential in Canada, not only company-owned stores.

Absolutely.

Okay. Great.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Sara.

Can you comment a little bit about the EBITDA margin trend in Canada and the sales trend. It historically – when you guys would peel that out, we would see kind of a ramp-up through the year with a little bit of inventory profit taking sort of building up inventory in Q4 to sell-through in the next year. Just wondering how does that trend now because it's been a few years since we've seen that?

Well, basically, there is less trends on the refinish side and the paint side. But in the automotive, it is still true that the first quarter is always the lower sales quarter due to seasonality and unfortunately that has an impact on the margin, because the fixed costs are the same. So you usually see the first quarter being much lower than the rest of the year, with the second being much better, the third one being strong and the fourth one a little bit lower.

And several years ago, you would see very, very strong quarters, but that was in an era where systems didn't allow us to really have as much visibility day in, day out on the exact margin and there were always yearend inventory pickups and stuff like that, because we were very conservative. We're much more precise now but we still have seasonality in the automotive business whether that's Canada or the U.S. where Q1 is usually the weakest of the four because of seasonality.

Okay. Thanks. And then maybe just a reminder on the accounts payable program that you have with banks and how much of that have to be repaid upon closing the Uni-Sélect USA. So I was trying to get sense of how working capital will fluctuate in the back of the year?

Sara, as of the end of the quarter, there is approximately $62 million of vendor financing program which is really good to the U.S. asset that we are going to sell, okay. The transaction taking to account the fact that we're going to keep those payables, meaning that I'm going to be able to use that payment terms that I already have negotiated with the vendors, meaning that I'm going disburse that $52 million over the next nine months after closing.

So, it's not going to be first right at closing. As those payables come due over the next nine months, the cash flow will go up.

Okay. And maybe just on the corporate charges, I understand the stock option driving that up by $1 million. But post USA, shouldn't we see some savings relative to prior years, post closing of the USA sale?

Basically, not necessarily. There is a lot of the corporate charges that were being incurred here in terms of shared services were already being charged to the U.S. So, if there is anything, I have to admit that our Canadian operation is probably going to be penalized a little bit because a little bit of deleveraging in our cost there but that's what we will be working very, very hard to eliminate.

Okay. And then maybe just on the corporate store strategy for Canada. It's bit of a change and I understand there's succession issues with some of your jobber members. How big can you get in corporate stores and is this really for metropolitan centers, or is it can be regional ones as well?

Gary would you like to handle that one?

Yeah, thanks. Sara, that's totally a fair question. So we haven't put a limit on the size of the number of corporate stores. What we want to be for sure is in all of that the major centers across the country. And that's going to happen by combination of us being proactive and saying, these are the markets we want to go in and making sure we have the right targets available in those markets.

But equally so, we're going to have some members – as we said about succession, as they decide to retire, we're going to end up with some stores in other markets. And that portfolio is going to build out over time, but we're not limiting ourselves to be strictly in urban centers. We're going to have a combination of both. Our intent is to actually build density in terms of corridors where we have multi-stores in a particular area, so we can build a market share in that particular area. And build out store leadership in that area and get the synergies that comes along with that sort of density of stores.

So that would be our desire but as I said the secession comes up, we'll deal with the secession of those folks. We're not going to give up any of our market share to those current independents by letting them go to any of our competitors. And just to be clear, we still highly value the independent automotive jobber. That is still a very core part of our business. This isn't a move away from them at all. It's about a balance and it's a good thing for those jobbers because those jobbers quite frankly are looking for home succession plan, some of them have it, some of them don't. And we're going to make sure we're there for the balance. So that's how our view is of the corporate stores moving forward.

Okay.

And we'll also be looking at acquisitions from jobbers and competing networks, other warehouse distributors also dealing with other independent. And we'll also continue to look at organic growth which we've had and we'll expect to continue to have. So it will be a balanced approach.

Yeah, okay, great. And just a last question on volume rebates, once you close the Uni-Sélect USA sale, is there any negative impact to the kind of vendor rebates that you enjoy right now?

We do not expect any.

Okay, thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. This is Sami Abboud filling in for Anthony Zicha. My first question on the margins, if we look going forward and we look at improving margins or driving margins upward, where can we see the largest potential in margin improvement? Would that be more on the U.S. side since the Canadian side is you know fairly healthy, maybe some color on the margins going forward?

Well, obviously we are working at improving the margins in the U.S. side, but given that sometime in the second quarter, we do expect those operations to be disposed of. Obviously, that's where it's going to have the biggest impact. As far as the U.S. operations on the refinish side, basically the margin that we have there are probably a little bit on the high side during the first quarter and I would not commit to maintain that higher level. But quite frankly, it will continue to be very high. You can see that last year it was still very good.

And on the Canadian automotive side, because of seasonality, Q1 was affected, Q1 was also affected by some labor that we very deliberately spent on doing all kinds of improvement in our warehouses; we put away a lot of stuff that we bought in advance of some price increases. Our fill rate is absolutely fantastic. As a result, we do expect that productivity in the next three quarters will be higher because of all of that work that we've done in the first quarter when the people were available. And it was all done at regular rates as opposed to over time or whatever. So that's where the improvement will come.

Okay. And looking on the acquisition front, you're focusing more on Canada in expanding your corporate stores. Would you – the strategy going forward, would it be more on focusing on like one larger acquisition, one short deal or would it be more piecemeal and tuck-in acquisitions in growth in Canada over time?

What I would say and I need to correct that a little bit is that we are also focusing on growth by way of acquisition in the U.S. within FinishMaster. So we have – you're right in the sense that so far we spoken more about the corporate stores in Canada because that was the question that we had but we're focusing on both sides and both markets at a combination of organic and M&A growth. And as far as the tuck-ins to expand in some regions and so and so forth, certainly that will continue. If there is larger opportunities that materialize, obviously we will be very happy to take advantage of that. But as I do that the M&A game is very much an opportunistic one. And quite frankly, people have to be in a state of mind where they want to make a transaction and we'll be very active on both sides to take advantage of all of that.

Okay. And my last question. You mentioned that were price increases that you had implemented. I was wondering if there were any more price increases you were thinking of going forward because of the weaker Canadian dollar, or have all the price increases been executed or implemented so far? Thank you.

Yeah, this is Gary. I would say all the price increases have been implemented but we do expect further price increases from our U.S. manufacturers in the coming months because we have been fully adjusted to the exchange rate. So right now, we're up-to-date.

Yeah, I would only add that the price increases that we put out in the marketplace are driven by manufacturers and they are market-wide. So [ph] it isn't (34:10) up to us necessary to personally install all those price increases in the marketplace. It is literally broad across the Canadian market. So all of our competitors are in the same boat as well.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi, Good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

It maybe a little bit early for this Richard but happy retirement in a few months.

Thank you very much.

Moving on to a couple of questions here regarding the quarter, now with the new kind of segmented breakdown regarding the paint and related products, obviously that's predominantly FinishMaster, but are there any Canadian sales in paint were involved in those numbers and if so what are they?

Basically, we have left the Canadian paint sales in the Canadian Automotive, because quite frankly that's how we manage the business. It's very closely intertwined. So it hasn't been isolated.

Okay. So basically the paint and related product sales that we're seeing of about $147 million or so that's all FinishMaster.

Yes.

I'm afraid to say yes but that's what it is.

Okay. Just wanted to verify that. The next question is regarding gross margins, regarding the quarter specifically. You mentioned that there was an unfavorable customer mix primarily related to the growth of large national accounts with large discounts. Is that a new development? Or is that just some of the national accounts that are gaining more business with you and therefore margins are becoming lower? Just wanted to understand the dynamic a little bit better there?

No. It's actually not a new development. That's the same trend as what we've seen before. Actually probably a bit less this quarter than in previous quarters. But obviously, we have gained a lot of business with very large operators and margins are a little bit smaller there.

Okay, great. And I guess another follow-up regarding some of the potential acquisitions you're looking at. You did mention in detail the Canadian business and as well as the U.S. business. But I guess within the parts in Canada, if I can call it that and the paint in the U.S., do you foresee a scenario where you would have a third business line whether it's in Canada or in the U.S., and another business line outside of the paint and the part business, specifically where you're in right now?

Well at this stage that's not the focus of our expansion.

Okay. Thank you. That's it for me.

Thank you very much, Leon, and thank you for your good wishes.

Thank you. The next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Otto.

Okay. My first question relates to, I guess, the organic growth. You guys mentioned 2.5% negative, I guess both Canadian and U.S. items just on the parts side. Can you comment on the impact of, I guess of delayed sales, and I guess the pull ahead sales in Q4, and how would that have basically made organic growth in Canada positive?

Well, it's very difficult to isolate all of that but what we know is that by far our worst month of sales was the month of January and that was pretty clear to us that it was related to the very strong December closing. In terms of March, we know that we usually have strong bookings for the spring season by some – a lot of our customers and especially that there were some price increases that were coming into effect, and that didn't really materialize as much as what we were expecting. Yet we see in April that the sales are much stronger. So I would be very careful to go into more clarification than that because it's the trends that we're looking at as opposed to exact figures.

Yes. Fair enough. That's understandable. And I guess just a little more color on that on the EBIT – on the margin side. You mentioned that obviously the Canadian margins are higher than the U.S., but can you just talk like you may not be able to provide specifics but can you just talk about whether Canadian margins are flat year-over-year, slight – down marginally or vice versa, any color on that would be great?

No, they were slightly down for the first quarter because of the lack of revenues. Again this is a small quarter – the smallest of the year, so obviously when there is 2.5% negative organic trend, you can't leverage your fixed costs as much but this was very much a temporary situation that we're not concerned about. This is not us losing our margin abilities or our position in the market and so on and so forth. So really nothing to be overly concerned about.

Okay. And just moving on to, I guess FinishMaster side year-over-year and we saw a pretty decent margins, healthy margins this quarter and year-over-year it was up essentially 80 basis points. In the commentary, you guys mentioned benefits from acquisitions and what-not. But can you maybe provide anything specific that helped drive that margin increase?

I would tell you or maybe, Steve, you can talk about that.

There are a couple of things that helped us there. One was our private brand, greater adoption of private brand and higher margin definitely helps. And the other thing is we did take advantage of some special pricing from our vendors, the materials brought it at lower cost.

And that second element although may not be repeatable every quarter. So that's why the margin was great. We will continue with strong margins but it might not be quite as strong in Q2 or Q3.

Okay, okay. And my last couple of questions just relates to acquisitions. You commented a lot on the M&A, potential M&A activity going forward. And I guess my only clarification was, it appears that there is a focus on picking up the one or two tuck-ins here and there. But is there enough opportunities out there to sort of acquire, I guess, multi-locations in both FM and Canada?

There is several opportunities on both sides of the market. That's not really the opportunities that are lacking. As I explained earlier, M&A is, to a large extent, opportunistic in nature. Obviously, we can be selective in the opportunities to make sure that we act only on those that are accretive but it takes two to tango. And as my former boss used to say, you go fishing, you throw your line in the lake and you don't know what the size of the fish or when the fish will be there. So that's really what we're looking at.

Okay. The only thing I would add is that we are wide open, and quite frankly, would prefer some larger acquisitions, and so that is completely on our radar. So I want to be very clear, you'll see some tuck-ins from us in both businesses, FinishMaster and Canada, but we're all the time working on some larger acquisitions. They typically take a longer time to come to fruition and they're not always available. So please rest assured that we're kind of working on both of those fronts.

Totally right.

Okay, perfect. And just my last question with respect to that. I would suspect to that point is basically with the deal – with selling your U.S. distribution business, I understand it's going to close before the end of Q2, but can you just comment on the process now and what's holding it up, or is it just really any concerns of it not being completed?

Based on what I know right now, and what I know of the deal, the concern is not there at all. It's just ongoing regular documentation and papering. We're selling assets, not shares for a business that does over US$0.75 billion. So as you can imagine, there is a lot of paperwork that needs to be completed. We also want to make sure that the transition services that will be provided post-closing ensure a smooth transition for the buyer and as for the customers and all of our partners and that it's very important to all of us. So it's taking a little bit of time but not unexpected. When we announced the transaction on February 9, we said it would close in the first half of the year though we haven't changed our mind.

Perfect. Thank you so much. I'll jump back into the queue.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon. Just on the corporate expense line. To get a sense of where that might be annualized, should we work with the $3.3 million and just sort of do that each quarter? Would that be fair?

No, Michael. You need to exclude the one-time impact on the share impact of the long-term benefits for it. But the remaining US$2 million is representative because what we will do going forward is that all the management fee that we used to receive from U.S. will be compensated by the fact and which those management fee used to be for the short service will be compensated by unfortunately cost reduction at corporate. So overall, if you take a $2 million expense, fixed expense per quarter, it will be reasonable for a year.

And based on your comments earlier in the call, that's primarily related to the corporate office in Boucherville?

Yes.

Yes.

Okay. And then just a clarification. So the 10.9% on FinishMaster – it's up year-on-year, but we shouldn't expect it to remain – it'll probably end the year somewhere in between 10% and 10.9%, I guess?

I guess that's what we meant but don't expect 10.9% each and every quarters.

Okay. And so can you...

We're trying. We just don't want guarantee it. We'll try.

That you can be assured of. Actually we've already put the [ph] C suite (45:03) to the fire. But he hasn't promised yet. I'm just kidding.

And then just on the balance sheet, can you just give an update, the net amount you're going to receive when the deal closes? And what you think your net debt will be when the deal closes?

Okay. This one is a bit of moving target because, as you know, we are selling at net tangible book value. And the best way to look at is really the information we provide you at the end of the quarter in the notes to financial statement. And at that date it's $342 million. But once again that doesn't mean that would be the number we're going to get because if the assets are lower, it's because we receive cash in the mean time because we cash inventory or cash the receivables. So at the end of day, the best number to take is really the number that we provided you at the end of the March which is $342 million.

Now that being said, with that, based on that number and based on the level of debt that we have, no doubt that very shortly after that, that we're going to have a balance sheet which, as I mentioned earlier, by the way, the balance sheet would be debt free after the closing.

And actually slightly net cash, I guess.

Yes.

Okay. That's it from me. Thanks.

Thank you, Michael.

Thank you. The next question is from the [ph] Matt Pickering (46:26). Please go ahead.

So on that last question about the net proceeds, the earlier question about the vendor financing does not reduce the proceeds received form sale?

Not initially. Obviously, as the accounts payable that were included in the vendor finance income due over the next nine months, we'll use the cash to repay that.

So we think about it – and then if you think about the cash generating potential of the remaining business, I remember, you were kind of enough to provide some broad expectations or understandings on the February call. Can you remind us kind of whatever parameters you feel comfortable discussing around operating cash flow and capital spending going forward?

Basically, what we said is the revenues for the [ph] remaining base (47:12) business on an annual basis would be about $1.1 billion then the EBITDA margin would be anywhere between 7% and 8%. We also mentioned that capital expenditures on an annual basis would be about $15 million and then the tax rate would go up to about 35%.

And are you still affirming the net present value of some tax shields because of the accounting loss?

Well, we will be recognizing the losses net of the taxes because obviously we will be able to monetize them over the next two fiscals.

In two, three years.

Yes.

And then just last question from me, can you remind us your MSO split, kind of which MSOs are more important for you and also which paint manufacturers are more important for FinishMaster?

All the paint manufacturers are important to FinishMaster. [ph] Since we made that clear (48:15) but I think the split is around 40% of our business right now mix is MSO and just growing slightly this year, kind of stabilizes at this point.

MSOs have taken share in the industry, does that suggest you are losing shares in the category, or the MSO channel not taking as much share that it has in the past?

We are not loosing share in the category. We're gaining share in the MSO category, yeah.

There is no doubt about us gaining share in that category, but let's be very clear, one of the things that we have with our strategy, having 168 locations is that, we've got the best design in the industry in terms of being the sort of partner of choice, product line independent because we have geographical coverage.

So that's kind of one thing as we look to build out our network that's going to be critical for us. So we see MSOs as being a continuing strategy for us but also equally we're going to make sure that we are highly focused on that traditional business because that's obviously at a higher margin. So we're not giving up on that. We're not [ph] makeshifting (49:25) over. We're going to follow the industry. So we're going to be take a leading share in the MSO segment but equally we're going to be highly focused on the higher margin independent segment as well.

Thank you very much.

Well, thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back to Mr. Roy.

Well, thank you very much everyone for having joined us this afternoon. And thank you for your numerous questions and great interest in Uni-Sélect. And believe me, this team is very much committed to profitable growth coming for the future and again balanced growth between organic and M&A on both sides of the border and with all type of potential acquisitions.

So I look forward to talk to you again at the next conference call for our second quarter which will be my last one. And I will tell you I know that Uni-Sélect will be in extremely good hands with my friend and colleague, Henry. So thank you again and all the best to all of you.

Thank you. The conference call has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. And we thank you for your participation.