Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
André Courville — Interim President and Chief Executive Officer - Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Eric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Brent Windom — President and Chief Operating Officer, Canadian Automotive Group, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Peter C. Sephton — President & Chief Executive Officer - European Automotive Group, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Chris Adams — President and Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc., Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Elizabeth Johnston — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jessa, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Uni-Select Inc. Third Quarter Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Mr. Louis Juneau, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary, you may begin your conference.

Merci, Jessa. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for the Uni-Select third quarter conference call. Presenting this morning are André Courville, Interim President and Chief Executive Officer; and Eric Bussières, Chief Financial Officer. Following their comments, we will open the call for questions. Joining us today for your questions are Chris Adams, President and COO, FinishMaster USA; Brent Windom, President and COO of Automotive Canada; and Peter Sephton, President and COO of The Parts Alliance.

Please note that all documents referred to in today's conference call, including this webcast presentation, can be found on our website at uniselect.com in the Investors section. As noted on slide 2, I would like to remind you about the caution regarding forward-looking statements, which is applied to our presentation and comments. All amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars, except as otherwise specified.

With that, let me turn the call over to André.

Merci, Louis. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. First, I would like to wish Chris a warm welcome. We are honored to have him join the leadership team.

Please turn to page 4. Before we jump in quarterly results, I just want to provide an update on our strategic alternatives review process. On September 18, we announced the formation of a Special Committee of independent members of the Board of Directors to oversee a review of strategic alternatives. Since then, the Special Committee and the Board of Directors have had multiple meetings with its advisors and management to identify, review, analyze and evaluate a comprehensive range of alternatives with the goal of maximizing value for our shareholders. At this time, we do not have an update to provide and cannot commit to any timeframe considering the extent of this comprehensive process and typical nature of these reviews.

Now, please turn to page 5. Today, we are announcing the expansion of our 20/20 initiative. Recall that a year ago, we launched the 20/20 initiative for cost savings of $20 million by 2020. At the end of the third quarter, we have realized $12 million of annualized recurring savings or 60% of the target. In the spirit of continuous improvement and to further drive efficiency, we identified a minimum of an additional $5 million in cost savings, bringing the total recurring savings to at least $25 million by 2020. Eric will provide more details on this in a moment.

Now, let me provide you with a brief overview of Q3 results on page 6. Our third quarter results demonstrated our focus on execution with improved organic sales growth generated in all our business units, higher adjusted EBITDA and strong cash flow generation.

During the quarter, we deleveraged our balance sheet, bringing our funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio to 3.1 from 3.6 three months earlier. And we amended and extended our credit facility to increase flexibility. I'm very proud of the team that have worked hard to get there for this Q3.

On that note, I'd like to turn the call over to Eric to review our results.

Thank you, André. Good morning, everyone. Please turn to page 8. Overall, our third quarter results were essentially in line with our expectations. On a consolidated basis, sales reached $449 million, up 13% over last year, primarily driven by the acquisition of Parts Alliance and positive organic growth.

Adjusted EBITDA was up 3% to $35 million or a margin of 7.8%, primarily explained by competitive pressure in FinishMaster, coupled with incentive from a product line changeover in the Canadian Automotive Group last year. During the quarter, we integrated three stores and opened four greenfields.

We are generally pleased by our top-line results. FinishMaster had a second consecutive quarter of organic growth. TPA demonstrated strong organic growth again this quarter. And our Canadian operations returned to positive organic growth after a challenging second quarter.

First, let me go through each business segment in more details. Please turn to page 9 for FinishMaster. Sales increased to $214 million, up 3.7% from last year. While the EBITDA margin stood at 10%, impacted by competitive pressure and benefits from the tail end of special buy last year.

We are encouraged by the top-line performance at FinishMaster as it is the second consecutive quarter of positive organic growth. The results clearly demonstrate that the sales recovery plan and the sales growth initiatives that we put in place since the beginning of the year have gained traction. In addition, in the third quarter, we opened a new greenfield location in Oregon. The new store help us extend our customer coverage initiatives in the Pacific Northwest region.

Since the beginning of the fourth quarter, we have noticed that our operations in certain markets are facing soft market conditions. As a result, we expect to be at the lower end of the organic sales growth guidance range of 0.5% to 2%. We currently stand at 0.6% after nine months.

Furthermore, margins continue to be under pressure. In fact, we have noticed the competitive landscape evolving in all refinish segment. As a result, it becomes more important than ever to execute our 25/20 Plan and reduce our cost to serve model in order to preserve our margins going forward.

In parallel, we will continue to focus on driving profitable growth with specific initiatives to achieve long-term objectives, a counterbalance of our business challenges. For example, we will drive organic sales growth through the new customer sales initiatives, improve customer retention, and execute our strategy to expand into the industrial coating business.

Turn now to Canada on page 10. Our third quarter sales were down 1.9% to $131 million, primarily driven by the unfavorable foreign exchange conversion to U.S. dollar and partly offset by organic growth of 0.5%. Our EBITDA margin reached 7.2%, driven by revenue mix, investment in company-owned stores and product line changeover incentive recognized last year. Organic growth in the quarter turned positive after a challenging second quarter. In fact, after soft market condition in the second quarter, which flowed into the month of July, the last two months of the quarter returned to more normalized condition.

Let me put the 0.5% organic growth in perspective for a moment. Beside having a soft market condition in the first month of the quarter, it was up against a tough comparable quarter last year where we generated 7.7% of organic growth. Furthermore, it was also the result of customer preempting future price increase announced by an important supplier. Consequently, this timing of purchase may have an impact on our fourth quarter results. Nevertheless, with year-to-date organic growth at 0.9%, we are confident that we can achieve our organic sales growth guidance for the year at between 0% and 1.5%, more likely in the upper part of the range.

Having said this, margin continued to be under pressure as we are transitioning to our company-owned store strategy. In fact, in the quarter, we continued to roll out the BUMPER TO BUMPER and the deployment of our point of sale system, PartsWatch.

As we mentioned last quarter, we also started to focus on optimizing our network. In fact, we integrated three stores in the quarter. We estimate that the costs related to this consolidation represent about 40 basis points on the EBITDA margin. In addition, we have other consolidation and logistics opportunities to improve our network that we will be evaluating with the scope of the extended 20/20 initiatives.

I do, however, want to be clear that when we are consolidating stores, in most cases, we are not losing volume but reducing our cost to serve model, providing better service to our customer and ultimately improving our margins.

Now turning to our Parts Alliance UK segment on page 11. Our third quarter sales were $104 million versus $56 million last quarter. Recall that last year, TPA contribution started from August 7 only. Organic growth was unusually strong at a 9.4%, of which 3% was generated by greenfield. We would not expect this organic growth to be a new norm.

The EBITDA margin was 6.3%, up from 4.1% last year, driven by results for a full quarter and cost initiatives completed last year. In fact, TPA reached this margin despite opening three greenfields in the quarter. We estimated that the greenfield negative impact on the margin by about 20 basis points. Year-to-date, we opened 10 greenfields, therefore bringing the total count to 12 since we acquired Parts Alliance last August.

We are extremely pleased by the execution and performance of The Parts Alliance segment. It is exceeding our expectation supported by solid momentum in greenfield opening, sales and operational performance. Given The Parts Alliance strong performance in the first nine months coupled with our outlook for the balance of the year, we are confident that we can achieve our organic sales growth guidance for the year at between 6% and 8%, as well as a margin of 7.5% for the year excluding the impact of greenfield.

Before I comment on the results in more detail, I would like to remind you about the impact of seasonality on Uni-Select results. Please turn to page 13. At FinishMaster US, the first and fourth quarter tend to be softer and the third the strongest. For our Canadian operations, the first and fourth quarters are typically soft with the first quarter being the softest. As a result, margin in the second and third quarter tends to be approximately 200 basis points higher than the first and fourth quarter.

Similarly, our UK operation typically has softer third and fourth quarter, with the month of August and December being the softest. Consequently, margin in the first half of the year tend to be close to 200 basis point higher than the back half of the year. Having said this, I want to be clear that the next quarter will be softer, the softest quarter of the year.

Please turn to page 16 for more detail regarding our 25/20 Plan. Recall that we launched the 20/20 initiative in Q3 2017. The focus was reducing our cost to serve by accelerating the capture of certain synergies linked to the various acquisitions, improve productivity level and bring more variability in our cost structure. At the end of this quarter, we had realized $12 million in annualized recurring savings or 60% of our target.

Starting in the fourth quarter of 2018, we expand the scope of the 20/20 initiative to at least $25 million of recurring cost savings by 2020. To achieve the remaining $13 million in recurring cost savings, we will incur restructuring and other charges in the fourth quarter of 2018 and over the following six quarters estimate it to total between $9 million and $11 million, mainly on a cash cost basis.

Cost-saving initiatives across the three business segment will focus on various initiatives with the supply chain optimization resulting in the closure or integration of locations and workforce reduction. The slight workforce reduction of less than 5% of total employees will be spread across all businesses and will be related to site integration and optimization actions. These initiatives are expected to benefit margin in the Canadian Automotive Group, as well as The Parts Alliance and support margin at FinishMaster.

Turning to page 17. Net earnings for the quarter reached $10.6 million or $0.25 per share versus $11.2 million or $0.26 per share last year. Adjusted earnings for the quarter reached $15.5 million or $0.37 per share versus $15.9 million or $0.37 per share last year. The slight decrease in adjusted earnings was mainly attributable to additional financing and depreciation cost from TPA acquisition, partly offset by lower income tax rate following the U.S. tax reform.

Now, let me comment on our quarter cash flow on page 18. In the third quarter, cash flow from operating activities provided $73 million liquidity versus $49 million last year. This variation was positively impacted by change in working capital items, notably increase in trade payables going through the vendor financing program, partly offset by increased trade receivables due to higher sales. As a result, we generated $32 million of free cash flow for the quarter as compared to $35 million last year.

I want to make a few comments on the use of cash for the quarter. First, in the third quarter, our cash was primarily used to pay down debt. Furthermore, customer investment for the quarter returned to more normal level, roughly 2.5% of FinishMaster sales as expected. In addition, you will notice that on a year-to-date basis, our cap expense stands that $17 million including capital leases on vehicle while we have a guidance of between $26 million and $29 million for the year. We expect an acceleration of our CapEx spend during the fourth quarter linked to certain projects that are subject to milestones being achieved. In the event that some of these milestones are not achieved during the fourth quarter, some of the spending will be pushed into 2019.

Turning to page 19. At the end of the quarter, our outstanding total net debt stood at $394 million as compared to $450 million three months earlier, a decrease of $56 million. As a result, the funded debt to adjusted ratio stood at 3.1 times at the end of September. As previously explained, we expected our net debt to decrease in the third and fourth quarter as this is an area of our business, leaves us to generate stronger cash flow during the second half. In the fourth quarter, we expect our net debt to further decrease, excluding the impact of any potential acquisitions.

In the third quarter, we also amended and extended our credit facility at similar financial cost. This new agreement provide us with greater flexibility to manage our working capital requirements and deleveraging objectives.

Now, let me turn to the outlook on page 20. We are reiterating our guidance as published on September 18. Finally, in the interest of transparency, I would like to discuss an important factor that will impact our Q2 2019 cash flow. Please turn to page 22.

The slide presents the typical impact of seasonality on Uni-Select cash flow generation. On the slide, you can observe the past 11 quarters of cash flow from operating activities. Typically, our first quarter will burn cash as we are ramping up inventory for a strong second and third quarter and pay certain rebates to our members. As a result, our second quarter starts to generate cash as inventory are depleted, and finally, our third and fourth quarter typically accelerate that trend and generate strong cash flow.

We were informed by one of our large supplier that payment terms will change quite significantly in 2019. As a result, in 2019, we will have a cash outflow of roughly $55 million mainly in the second quarter. Although this is a one-time impact, it will have an impact on our cash position, and thus push back our deleverage objective. Based on the foregoing, we now expect to reach our target, 2.5 times funded debt to adjusted EBITDA, in approximately 24 months excluding any potential acquisitions.

This completes my financial review. I will now turn the call over to André, for concluding remarks before opening the call for questions. André?

Thank you, Eric. To conclude, our top priority is to actively pursue our strategic alternatives review with our advisors to complete the review as expeditiously as possible. I will not be able to give you additional comments if you have questions today. I think we have been very clear where we are today at this point in time.

We have the management team and strategy in place to drive the business forward. We will continue to execute our 25/20 Plan, open greenfields and actively pursue select acquisitions, all in an effort to drive our operations to generate continued growth and increased profitability with the aim of maximizing shareholders' value. We maintain our goal of reducing our leverage to 2.5 times funded debt to adjusted EBITDA over time, excluding potential acquisitions, obviously. And finally, we expect to reach our guidance for the year.

All of these will not be possible without the ongoing support of all stakeholders, including our employees and shareholders. I also like to thank our management for their strong commitment towards this quarter and up to today. And I'm sure of the continuous involvement and I'm pushing my three CEOs for bigger is better and we are working on that.

So, this conclude my presentation. We're now ready to answer questions. Madam operator?

Merci. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Benoit Poirier from Desjardins. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good morning.

[Foreign Language] (00:19:03)

Thank you very much and good morning, everyone. Could you provide more details on the organic growth for the Canadian Automotive business and maybe quantify a little bit the special buy or the impact of the future price increase on the organic growth and margin side?

So, Benoit, I'll take the first question. I think the purchase you're referring to is some of our members took advantage of a price increase from a manufacturer and ordering in advance of that price increase and that happened more in Q3. And therefore, our signal is that it may have an impact on our sales of Q4 because of the size and magnitude of those purchases in Q3. Having said that, we are reiterating our guidance and we do expect to be on the upper end of the range in terms of organic growth.

As it relates to organic growth in Q3, I'll let Brent put a little bit of color on the Q3 growth.

Good morning, Benoit. As Eric mentioned earlier, the hangover from the soft Q2 and the market continued into the first 30 days. The last 60 days, we've seen a very strong normalization of our organic growth and we certainly continue to see that and believe that we'll meet our guidance at the upper range of that. That is pure timing of Q3 versus Q4 with the manufacturers' supply chain. They normally take it a little later in the year. They took it earlier this year. And so, we saw that movement. So...

Good. Thank you.

Okay. Perfect. And if we look at the free cash flow, you mentioned the $55 million in Q2 coming from the one supplier. Could you provide more color about the segment and does it assume that free cash flow will turn negative for the full year in 2019?

Yeah. So, Benoit, it's an exchange of payment terms with a supplier. We believe that we can still be neutral for the year on an entire year basis, might be slightly negative. But because of the size of that change, it's obviously not a small, casual change and that's why we wanted to make sure that the market was aware of that.

Okay. And do you think, Eric, that some other supplier could follow, I mean, or is it one of the very special case?

No. No, it's a very specific case. In fact, my anticipation with other suppliers is we may be able to extend payment terms and we're in negotiations with certain suppliers to that extent.

Okay.

And I will remind everybody that in The Parts Alliance acquisition, you may recall that when we bought that business, they had no benefit from vendor financing and it's something that we started doing in 2018. And we see further opportunities throughout the year to increase our level of vendor financing with some manufacturers in the UK.

Okay. And last one for me. In terms of corporate cost, could you mention what is the typical run rate we should be modeling going forward?

Well, I think, Benoit, we're tracking in the $15 million, $16 million for the year on a normalized basis.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Merci.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Glen from Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Hi, Michael.

Hey, Michael.

Hey. Good morning. So just to hone in on this payment in Q2, is that in the Canadian Auto parts business or is it in FinishMaster?

No, we're not going to start slicing and dicing which manufacturer and so forth for obvious reason. So, all I'll say is that it has an impact on a consolidated level and we wanted to make sure that the market was aware of that change of payment terms.

And was this a result of the changing interest rate environment at all?

I don't believe, Michael, that there is a link to this because it's been a conversation that as possibly have been ongoing for a number of months. I wouldn't be able to pinpoint that it's linked to interest rate increase or not. And quite frankly, it's the only manufacturer that we had a discussion about payment terms changing in negative manner. So far, conversation with the others have been very supportive of our business.

Okay. FinishMaster, going back to your seasonality chart FinishMaster's strongest quarter is 3Q. EBITDA margin was 10%. Take away from that is that on the full-year basis then we're going to track somewhere, call it, 9%, 9.5% type range would be reasonable?

As we said in the past, we don't provide guidance on a segment basis. We did it exceptionally in 2018 for TPA for obvious reasons and during difficult start to 2017. We provided guidance on a consolidated basis. And I think with nine months of results and the guidance we gave in Parts Alliance, you have plenty of information to derive what you think should be the margins.

Okay. And then if we're going to go into – like, if we're going to think about the strategic review and some assumptions behind, you might sell certain businesses. Would there be any instances where you needed to seek approval from suppliers to sell those businesses? And in particular, I'm just wondering if you can comment as to whether the paint manufacturers at FinishMaster would have a say in some sort of sale process there.

Well, the answer is that at this point in time, obviously, like I said, no decision has been taken. And what we could expect from, if there was a transaction, some people doing due diligence, we'll have to ask the right questions like you probably just asked. But at this point in time, there's nothing to say about the potential transactions. We're not there yet. And that's what we mentioned this morning.

Okay. And then for FinishMaster in particular, do you more view FinishMaster Canada as part of the Canadian business or as part of the U.S. business?

Brent?

Yes. Yes. So it's part of the Canadian Automotive Group. It's 10 stores we have across the country strategically, and it's integrated into our business model.

Okay.

And as you view the brand. That's all.

Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, sir.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Elizabeth Johnston from Laurentian Bank Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Hi. Just to go over to the UK, you mentioned the very strong organic growth. Can you touch upon a little more details there of what you think drove – I know you called out greenfield as 3%, but even if you back out that, it was still exceptionally strong. What are some of the drivers in that market?

I'll have Peter and Eric to add.

Well, setting inspirational leadership aside, I think there were some favorable conditions. I mean, we had an exceptionally warm summer. We benefited from a weak pound and that led to staycations, so people staying at home and doing holidays in the UK, more miles driven. So there were some favorable tailwinds there. But notwithstanding that, we did a lot in terms of taking market share from various smaller, weaker competitors as well. We can continue to do that. I mean, I think the takeaway is after an exceptional summer, I don't expect that to repeat. We haven't had a summer like that for 30 years. I don't expect it to repeat any time soon. So they were the sort of exceptional circumstances that helped that organic growth a little bit.

And thank you. And when it comes to taking share, do you find that you're just more competitive overall, or are there specific part of that strategy, be it pricing or location or customer service, where you think you're really continuing to drive that result?

Well, I think it's all of that plus the quality of our people as well. I mean, we put a lot of store into the training and development of our people, the retention of our people. We have some proprietary elements to our business that many other competitors don't have. Our proprietary catalog allows us to retrieve information very quickly, make an accurate pick for the customer. And that's in a continuous stage of development. We've had that benefit for many years, and we continually develop that capability in terms of our systems and technology to differentiate us from the competition.

Okay, great.

Good. Thank you, Peter.

And just in terms of the restructuring cost, you mentioned the $9 million to $11 million over – so Q4 and then six more quarters, if I understand that correctly. Can you speak about which segments we should expect most of that to come through and where we're seeing most of the benefit? I assume that's Canada and the UK but just want to confirm that.

Yeah. As I stated in my remarks, it should help the margins of Canada and the UK, and it should help us maintain margins in the U.S.

Okay. And just maybe one final question for me on the UK. In terms of greenfield openings, can you give us any insight into your thought process for greenfield versus M&A in that market specifically and what the outlook looks like for opening new stores in 2019?

Yeah. Look, greenfield is the lowest investment in terms of return if you're successful in doing it, which Parts Alliance has been extremely successful since we've acquired them to a large greenfield, have them breakeven, in my opinion, a record period of time. And we see no reason why we would not to consider doing more greenfield going forward. At the same time, if there's an acquisition that makes sense for us, that is complementary to the network either by density or by geography, we would certainly entertain that possibility.

And are you able to give any insight into how many stores that could be, even broadly similar level to this year or somewhere in that kind of qualitative number?

Yeah, we'll provide a little bit more color on this, Elizabeth, on the next call. At this point we're in budget season, and we're obviously looking at all aspect of the markets.

Okay. Thank you. That's it for me.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Lamers from BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

On FinishMaster, I noticed that the margin came down a little bit in Q3 from Q2 despite slightly higher sales. And in the MD&A you mentioned competitive pressure on the gross margin in Q3. Could you explain a little bit what you mean by competitive pressure? And is that something new?

Well, it's certainly something that we've noticed and that we felt more so in Q3 where we're feeling that the competitive landscape is more competitive at pretty much all level, the refinish segments. And that's what we're currently seeing.

We also had growth in all of our segments, and specifically targeted that middle tier independent segment, which tends to be very competitive.

Sorry. What do you mean by middle tier independent segments? So this is your traditional channel where the gross...

Yeah, exactly, traditional channel.

Yeah.

But by middle tier, you mean sort of – would these be smaller MSOs that do not negotiate directly with the manufacturers?

No, so just to be clear, Jonathan, so we're all aligned under the definition, right? We define MSOs as anybody that operate three shops or more.

Yes.

And when we say traditional, that would be the smaller operators, not the MSOs.

Okay. And on the restructuring initiatives, I understand that you're not providing guidance by segment, but I believe in the past, Eric, we had discussed around $4 million in savings from route optimization initiatives for FinishMaster that would be kicking in toward the end of 2018. Could you just update us on where you are with those delivery route optimization initiatives? Was there any benefit in the Q3 year-to-date results?

So we got four key streams that we're working on at FinishMaster. The one that you mentioned is one of those. The project is following its course. To your question as it relates to any benefits in Q3, the answer is no. It's still early days. We're in the deployment testing phase. There's a finite number of stores where we've implemented that technology and we're more in that test phase and we see some good news coming in 2019 more so than anything else.

Thank you. And just at an industry level, some of the manufacturers have talked about raising prices a little more so recently. Is that having any impact on FinishMaster?

Well, look, first, let's say that there's price increases pretty much every year by manufacturers, right? As a first, this is not a new thing. You're correct that it sounds like there might be a higher price increase this year than last year, and I'll let Chris to provide a little bit of color on when we expect. But having said that, price increase becomes real only when the manufacturer actually announce it. So...

Yeah, I would think based on published information in terms of the cost of raw materials going up that we can assume to see higher price increases in 2019. And I would imagine it would be a collective effort from the manufacturers, which...

They're all facing the same challenges.

They're all facing the same challenges.

So how do things look in terms of opportunities to buy inventory in front of those price increases to get a potential margin lift?

Look, well, as we said in the past, when those opportunities arise, we always look at the benefit of doing so, and if those opportunities arise we'll consider it for sure.

Okay. Switching to Parts Alliance, one of the competitors in the UK recently flagged that competitors are cutting prices. Have you seen that dynamic in the UK and has Parts Alliance seen any need to cut prices?

So, look, there's no question it's a competitive market. I wouldn't say it's a disorganized market. I think it's a fairly disciplined market. Is there price competitiveness like any markets? For sure. I don't know, Peter, if you have more color to provide to that.

Actually, I don't see that. I mean, as I said, it continues to be a competitive market. But if I compare it to where it was four to five years ago, it's much more rational now. So I don't see that. It continues to be competitive, but those conditions have changed any time recently.

Thanks. And if we think about the success with the greenfields that were opened this year, was there anything in particular about those greenfields that made them particularly easy conversions and got off to a good head start coming off the ground versus...

Well, you know, we have a process of planning where we open greenfields. That's a defined playbook that we adopt in terms of where the car park is, what the competitive environment is that we go into, the availability of personnel, our ability to service those customers. So it's a good, planned approach.

Inevitably over time [indiscernible] (00:35:51) with the best opportunities and go down to the less best opportunities. So, over time, that [indiscernible] (00:35:57) So I guess that's just an inevitable part of that planning process.

There was nothing truly exceptional. There was a little bit of competitive disruption in the early part of the year that we took advantage of. But we constantly see areas of competitive disruptions. The companies required something – changes in the particular marketplace, and we're getting increasingly astute at identifying those opportunities.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Leon Aghazarian from National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Morning, everybody.

Good morning.

Morning.

Just to kind of come back to an earlier question on the Canadian side, the customers taking advantage of the future price increases. You mentioned that this kind of happens more often towards the latter half of the year and it happened earlier than usual. Just wondering is it on specific types of products that they're seeing right now, or is it because they're carrying maybe more inventory that they're trying to get rid of? I'm just trying to understand the dynamic of why that would happen.

No, not at all. It was really designated around the PBE sector for us. And some of our paint suppliers announced their price increases and our members who distribute that product took advantage of it. Typically that comes in the beginning of the fourth quarter. And it came in the third quarter this year.

Okay. That's helpful there. On the cash flow side, I mean, your cash flow from operations were very, very high, I mean, particularly as compared to the last year. You did mention here in terms of increased trade payables. Can you just walk me through the dynamic of what that actually entails? Like why the increase in trade payables through the vendor financing helping your cash flow and what was really the dynamics behind that?

Yeah, some of this is timing. So there are – on the vendor financing program, it goes with our purchases. They agreed with the manufacturer and the bank in terms of how that program works. If I buy on the fifth of the month, then within certain numbers of days thereafter I have to pay back. If I buy on the eighth of the month, then it's numbers of days plus eight, right. So my point here is all depends on the scheduling of purchases. We run the business to make sure that we have the proper fill rates.

And in this case, from a timing perspective, we had a bit more advantage in Q3 than the norm. But all things being equal, from an annual year basis, it's a pretty stable platform. The only exception, as I mentioned on the call, is what will be happening in Q2 2019. It is a one-time event. I want to stress that again. It's not something that we expect to be repeated thereafter. And, no, it's not an insignificant amount of money in terms of change of payment terms, but we'll deal with it mostly in Q2 2019.

Yeah. Okay. And that was kind of my next question. On that payment terms, look, I understand you don't want to disclose the manufacturing other than – and I respect that completely, but I mean, why – changing the – and maybe because it's standard earning season, I don't know, but maybe I'm not catching this part. Why is the payment terms changing impact your free cash flow? I understand maybe on a short-term basis, but I mean, I'm trying to – again, maybe understanding the dynamics of this, I'm not necessarily getting why that would change your cash flow and why you would need to reduce – reducing your leverage gets pushed out by 24 months. That's kind of what I'm trying to understand here.

I'll be happy to provide you more color, Leon, but it's very simple, right? If I had a payment term with you and I'm paying what I'm purchasing and on an illustrative example here, on a 90-day basis and then you asked me now going forward to be paid on the 30-day basis. If I still am buying on every week from you while the new orders will have a shorter views and will have to be rebate faster, and then you're going to have an overlap between your existing terms you had for 90 days versus the 30 days, right? So cash-out wise, there's a timing difference that sort of cumulate when it comes together. That's really what's going on here.

Okay. And for the leverage target to get to 2.5 times in approximately 24 months, can you walk us through maybe on what – I mean, what's the assumption behind that?

What's the assumption? Well, the assumption is the business will continue to perform as they are. As you know, historically, we generate a fair amount of cash. We're able to convert a fairly high percentage of our EBITDA into actual cash. 2019 is a bit of an exception with that change, but the businesses continue to generate cash. And based on our expectation, if we don't make any acquisitions, we expect to be tracking on that basis.

I mean, I understand there's a strategic review going on, but I mean are there still thoughts of acquisitions at the moment or, I mean, that's obviously on the backburner for now?

Look, we will not penalize businesses to run the business the way the business should be run and capitalize on opportunities because we're doing strategic review. I mean, at the end of the day, our job is to ensure to create shareholder values. If the opportunity makes sense, if it's an important element for business, we will definitely consider it.

Okay. And in that vein, given that there is a strategic review, I mean, I realize because there is on an interim basis. Has there been a search for a CEO or is that kind of in conjunction with the strategic review?

Well, there's no search started yet because we're only within two months of the strategic review. We have the management in place to drive the business and have a great management team and I'm there to help. And as soon as we have more clarity about the strategic review and the future, then we will start to search obviously. But right now, it's too early to really start the search, but we have the full team in play. And as you can see into our Q3 results, we've delivered. So we're going to continue to do the same. So that's all I can say at this point in time.

Thanks for your time.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Benoit Poirier from Desjardins. Please go ahead.

Yeah.

[Foreign Language] (00:42:30)

Yeah. Good morning again. And just for the organic growth, if we look at last year, is it fair to assume that Canadian Automotive Group will be facing an easy compare while FinishMaster will be facing kind of a tougher compare when we look at the Q4 organic growth last year? Is it a fair assessment?

Well, if you recall last year, we had a positive organic growth in Q4 2017, was a tune of 1.5%.

Yes.

And we still expect to be in the positive range on the CAG side. As we said, the guidance is operating at the range of where we expect. So if you do the math, we need to do either equal or better in a way, right, than where we are at this point. That's our expectation.

Okay. And is the $5 million additional cost saving is incremental or kind of offset something that were on the negative side, Eric?

So, as I said, right, we expect those initiatives to help the margins of Canada and Parts Alliance and we're aiming at maintaining margins at FinishMaster.

Okay. Perfect. And just also on a high-level question, strategic review, does it impact the ongoing business right now, or this is not a question or concern?

There's no impact on the actual business. Our three operators are running the business. Our management team altogether is very focused on the operations and there's no impact. Obviously, management has to be a part of certain meetings regarding the strategic review. But most of our times is spent on the operations, and our people, our clients, our suppliers and everyone that has an impact to our business. That's where we are focusing.

Okay. Thank you very much for the time.

Thank you, Benoit.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Glen from Macquarie. Please go ahead.

Hey.

Welcome back.

Hey. Good to be back. The CapEx side number, $26 million to $29 million, can you give an update or an outlook for the vendor, the advance merchant members number on the cash flow?

Yeah. Look, Michael, our expectation is to be in the same range in Q4 than we are in Q3, in that ballpark. As I mentioned on the prior call, we did invest more in Q1, Q2 than our normalized run rate, and I had telegraphed that we would expect this to revert back to normalized run rate thereafter, which is what happened in Q3 and I expect to be in a similar ballpark in Q4.

As it relates to CapEx, the only clarification you need to bear in mind is you need to factor in the fleet financing of our vehicles in that number because when you look at the cash flow, it's not intuitive that you'll get to that number. We look at it on capital leases that may or may not have a cash impact at that point, and that's the nuance when you look at the numbers.

Okay. And then on M&A, what's the prospect for you guys or being able to transact that FinishMaster right now? We haven't seen you acquire at that business since I think early 2017. Is there a...

Yeah. Well, you may recall, Michael, that...

[indiscernible] (00:46:19)

...we had a very simple philosophy. We would not transact if we have negative organic growth. I mean, the price of acquisition from our perspective is the business seems to have positive organic growth to justify doing an acquisition. It's only the second quarter after I would say difficult six, seven quarters that we had at FinishMaster. So, I think from our perspective, we wanted to make sure that the trend was definitely [indiscernible] (00:46:46). I'm very happy that we have a second quarter where we had positive organic growth. And if there's M&A activity that makes sense for FinishMaster, we definitely can contemplate those.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you, Michael.

There are no further questions at this time. I'd turn the call back over to management.

Thank you. I would like to thank everybody this morning for attending, and we obviously will be available, Eric and I, after sometime today. We have to finish board meetings to talk to any of you who wishes to do so. Thank you and have a good day, and see you next quarter.

Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.