Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations and Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President-Corporate Services, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and CEO, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and Chief Operating Officer of Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
William Alexander — President and COO, Automotive USA, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Dan Courtney — President, FinishMaster, Inc., Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Third Quarter Results 2012 Conference Call. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Hello, everyone. Welcome to 2012 third quarter review of Uni-Select Inc. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services, and CFO. Also attending the conference are Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; Willi Alexander, President and COO, Automotive USA; and Dan Courtney, President and COO, FinishMaster.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. Shouldn't you be familiar with the nature of our disclaimer, please read our most recent Annual Report available on SEDAR.

Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information, followed by Richard Roy, who will describe operational highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will open lines for your question.

Thank you, Karine. Good afternoon. Sales for the quarter were CAD 9 million lower than last year at CAD 463 million. And the decrease in revenues versus last year is mainly due to a decline in organic nature of 4.2% impacting revenues by negative CAD 20 million for the quarter, and one less billing date in the quarter versus 2011. Those items were partially offset by the impact of the acquisition of Parts Depot, I mean, the Florida operations, amounting to CAD 20 million. The organic sales decline in Canada was almost CAD 13 million or 8.6% and CAD 7.2 million or 2.2% in US.

You may remember then that last year the Canadian sales for the third quarter included drastic volume that should have been recorded in the second quarter due to the postal strike. Should numbers have been receded, the decline in organic sales in this quarter in Canada would have been closer to 5.8% for CAD 4.1 million.

The adjusted EBITDA at CAD 25.5 million is 17.2% lower than last year at CAD 30.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin at 5.5% represents a decrease of 1% as compared to last year. Lower margin is mainly driven by rapid decrease in sales which exceeded the rate of decrease in expenses. Additional IT costs related to ERP implementation including the hosting of servers during the system transition period, and that was partially offset by better buying conditions and proactive management on selling prices. Incremental margin derived from synergic reliance on the latest acquisitions and lower expenses resulting from the cost-reduction initiatives launched at the end of the second quarter.

During the quarter, we announced and recorded restructuring expenses including, restructuring charges, write-off of assets and others of CAD 18.5 million or CAD 11.5 million after tax. These expenses will have limited impact on cash flow. The total cost of implementing the consolidated plan is expect to be at a level of approximately CAD 22 million. We are confident that we will reduce our expenses according to plan announced in August.

So far, as of September 30, after only few weeks, we have been able to reduce our total expense by CAD 3.8 million or more than CAD 15 million on an annual basis. Our objective is fill to reduce the expenses by an additional CAD 4.2 million during the fourth quarter for a cumulative total of CAD 8 million generated by the program in 2012.

For the third quarter, we've reported net losses of CAD 900,000 or CAD 0.04 per share compared to a benefits of CAD 16.6 million or CAD 0.77 per share last year. Once adjusted for the non-recurring items, such as the restructuring plant, ERP network reorganization expenses, net gain on disposal of assets and acquisition-related cost, the adjusted earnings were CAD 11.5 million or CAD 0.53 per share compared to last year at CAD 0.79 per share.

Now with respect to the nine-month period in September 30, the sales for the nine month period are at 3.9% or CAD 53 million higher than last year at almost CAD 1.4 billion. The increase in revenues versus last year is mainly made of the impact of the acquisition of Parts Depot, the Florida operations, amounting to CAD 64 million. The changes in sales due to organic reasons were negative at CAD 12.3 million or a 0.09% for the period. This variation is comprised of the Canadian operation with a negative organic sales at minus 2.4% while the U.S. organic was almost flat at minus 0.2% or CAD 2.3 million.

The variation of the exchange rate between the Canadian and the U.S. currency impact negatively ourselves by over CAD 10 million in the period. Adjusted EBITDA at CAD 84.7 million is 2.9% lower than last year at CAD 87.2 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin at 6.1% represents a decrease as compared to last year at 6.5%. And this decrease is mainly due to the same reason than those explained for the quarter. However, the economic downturn has had a lesser impact for the nine month as it was only being prevailing since April.

Net earnings stood at CAD 25.4 million or CAD 1.17 per share, representing a decrease of 43% compared to last year at CAD 44.8 million or CAD 2.07 per share. Once adjusted for non-recurring items, the same ones that I mentioned earlier for the quarter, the adjusted earnings were CAD 40.6 million or CAD 1.87 per share compared to last year, up CAD 47.7 million or CAD 2.20 per share. The inventory, we announced that we had the intention to reduce the inventory. The inventory has been reduced by CAD 65 million since the beginning of the year as planned.

With respect to the debt, the debt has been reduced by CAD 37 million, during the same period. We announced earlier in the year that we would be able to reduce our debt by CAD 100 million. Unfortunately, due to the decline in our sales, we now forecast a reduction of our total debt by CAD 70 million by December 2012.

And this concludes my presentation on the financial results. Richard?

Thank you very much, Denis. Obviously, I will tell you that we are not satisfied with the third quarter results. The industry is facing a slowdown, as I'm sure most of you know by now. And it's been mainly impacting the areas, where we have most of our operations, namely the north-east of the U.S. And that's a very important market for us, and also eastern Canada, we'd tell you.

We are still very confident that the outlook for the industry remains positive. And we believe that we can return to higher and more acceptable level of profitability. In the short-term, we will remain focused on offering the best service to our customers, while exercising a very tight control on our costs and also working capital.

Looking at the Canadian markets, the sales were down by CAD 16 million for the quarter at a CAD 133 million. Denis talked about the organic portion, and basically, the lower sales are a factor of its overall slowdown that we'll find in the activity, mainly in the eastern Canada, but also noticeable in Western Canada. Car count and the service base was low and the price pressures were very acute in metro markets. Our productivity in Canada was impacted by higher customers' returns, SAP implementation activities, as well as lower value per line items picked and shipped.

Sales for the nine-month period, that CAD 394 million are down 2.4% year-to-date compared to the same period of last year. Overall, sales for the third quarter were up CAD 7 million or 2.2% in the U.S. The organic sales were down 2.2% for the same quarter after exclusion of the stores acquired and closed, as well as the acquisition of Florida. Year-to-date in the U.S., our sales are up CAD 73.4 million or 7.9%, again, mainly related to the acquisition. Organically, U.S. sales this year are basically flat.

When we look at the U.S. market operations, we can tell you that as we announced a few months ago, we have restructured the management of our warehouse and store operations and reduced costs significantly in so doing. We believe that streamlined operation will improve execution and performance. The network optimization announced in August is being implemented with success. We are adjusting further to reflect the lower sales activity during the last quarter. The integration of the acquisitions of the assets in Florida is almost completed, as planned. And despite the slowdown and sales prevailing in the industry, we have been able to materialize the forecast synergies, and those assets were delivering the results in line with our original expectations.

Finally, let me add that during the quarter we implemented our ERP software in four additional warehouses and 48 affiliated stores. The transition went very well with minimal disruptions. The deployment of ERP should be completed in April 2013 as we planned. We expected benefit of EBITDA from the ERP deployment should be approximately CAD 1.9 million in 2013, CAD 7.8 million in 2014, CAD 13 million in 2015 and CAD 15 million in 2016. I know before we said that, we would be looking for CAD 15 million in 2014 and we will continue to strive for that result.

Overall, the decrease in framings is mainly attributable to lower sale, higher IT maintenance cost due to having two systems in operation in 2012 and SAP implementation cost. Please note that the last two items will disappear in 2013.

In the next quarters, we will continue to implement the network optimization plan, aiming to reduce our costs and gain flexibility to face market changes. We will also maintain our efforts to increase operational efficiency through improve productivity and margins. We will continue to reduce working capital in order to decrease the level of indebtedness, and we will pursue the cross-selling opportunities between parts and collision repair. Finally, the orderly deployment of the Enterprise Resource Planning system will continue, as mentioned, and we expect to be done in April.

In conclusion, I simply would like to let you know that the Board of Directors declared the dividend of CAD 0.13 per share in Canadian dollar payable on January 22, 2013 to common shareholders of record on December 31, 2012.

This completes our 2012 third quarter review. We are now ready for your questions. Please feel free to ask questions either in French or in English, and we'll answer you in the same language. Thank you. Valerie please?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good afternoon.

Afternoon, Benoit.

First question is I would like to get more color on the organic growth especially in Canada this quarter. I was wondering if there's any particular reason for the decline, and if there's any change in the independent job or dynamics out East?

Gary, you want to answer that one?

Benoit, I don't think there's anything structurally changed. I think, it was an exceptionally poor quarter. There's no doubt that the cars in the base was very low this quarter was very low this quarter. So I mean, we didn't lose any business or customers or anything like that. So just the economic conditions were just very poor. I think it's really exceptional, what happened in the third quarter.

Okay. And in terms pricing, was there any deflation this quarter especially in Canada?

Not really. I think, it was fairly stable compared to other quarters, I would say.

Okay. Excellent. And could you maybe also provide some color about the implementation of your new operational structure in terms of implication on cost saving, and if there's further charges to be taken?

Okay. I will take that one Benoit, if you don't mind. As you know, we announced, the reorganization and we announced also some cost reduction program. Actually, you're right, some of those two announcements have intersections in the sense that with the reorganization we were able to streamline the organization structure. And that led us to some savings.

Over and above that, we're also looking and have begun to basically streamline our distribution network, mainly in the U.S. As I explained, I think three months ago, our Canadian network has been streamlined gradually, over the last three years, and we're now attacking the U.S. group at that level. We're basically achieving the kind of reduction in costs that we had planned internally and will continue to do that in the fourth quarter. And quite frankly, we continue to adjust costs in light of the decrease in revenues that we've seen during the third quarter.

I'll just add that just to complete maybe the question on what happened in Canada in the third quarter. Early indications in the fourth quarter is that there is an improvement that we see there, compared to the third quarter.

Okay. Very good answer. And last question, if I may, with respect to the Sandy hurricane, how many warehouses and corporate stores has been impacted and how much should we expect in terms of impact for Q4?

Benoit basically, and maybe up to corporate 29, when Sandy was really raging on the East Coast. We had 95 of our locations that were closed. And the next day on the 30th, there were still 43 locations that were closed. And the Friday of that week, we were down to 13 locations that were closed. And the following Monday basically all of our locations were back to normal. As we speak right now, we have five locations that are working without electricity following the snowfall that we are having in the mid-Atlantic region.

What I would tell you is that the sales from our company-owned stores were down little less than CAD 2 million. I mean, the lost sales during that period of the shutdown between the collision repair business and the parts business is about CAD 1.75 million during that last week of October. It's very difficult for us to guess on the independent side what the real impact is, but there's no doubt that there was an impact during the last week of October and the first few days of November.

Okay. Thanks for the time. And I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you. Our next question is from [ph] Elaine Lee (19:06). Please go ahead.

Thank you. Just want to go back on the organics or declining trends that we're seeing in Canada and the U.S. Just in Canada, you start to see a slight pickup. And do you think you could comment in the U.S.?

Willi, would you care to answer that question?

We should say, with the fact that we still have a few locations affected by the storm and then with the storm that's coming through right now, it's tough to see a lot of positive, or the best news, I can say is, it's not getting any worse through this period.

And also, I mean, you're talking about the impact Hurricane Sandy has had. Do you expect there might be incremental damage to some cars that might actually boost some repairs, or are most of the cars really just too wet beyond repair? [ph]

Elaine (20:01) , I will tell you that I have heard all kinds of physicians there within the industry. At the end of the day, it's very difficult to determine whether that will generate some business, or if some business was lost and will not come back. So, for the moment, I would not speculate on that. And we are very much focused on serving our customer base as well as we can improve our operational performance and basically control our cost and assets investment. So, it's only a week. It's very difficult to talk about the core base on what happens in a week. So, we'll see what happens there.

And just also on the pricing environment that you're seeing in the U.S., just because there obviously was the U.S. competitor, who did put on promotion during the quarter. Have you tried to work or what's the competitive environment migrating now in the U.S.?

I would tell you that the competitive environment continues to be extremely high. I mean there is some competitors is some product, who have been aggressive price-wise, no doubt about that.

Have you guys done the same or...

Well, we have basically tried to refrain from that as much as possible to present margin. But I will tell you that especially in early Q4, when we saw that this was becoming a norm, we have responded and adjusted. We basically managed gross profit dollars as opposed to strictly percentages.

Okay. And just also on, I guess, in the U.S. further, your rationalization plan is being implemented. If you can give us a bit more detail when you say you've been streamlining your distribution network, just what were the initiatives, kind of give us the sense of what was the closer, if any locations are amalgamated? And also what the drop ship right now looks like in Canada and the U.S. as a percentage of sales?

Well basically the restructuring plan as we said was related to site closures and some consolidation of sites. We already have changed a few local warehouses into hub stores. And we're going to be closing in Q4 a couple of locations like that. We have liquidation of redundant inventories. We've terminated some employees. We have recognized some lease obligations for the closed locations. We've written down some property and equipment and software that were in those locations. We're down too on the head count and full time equivalent north of 200 employees, that would be to the end of October. So that's basically the type of things that we're doing right now.

Okay and on the drop ship business, just as a percentage of sales in U.S. and Canada?

I don't have the exact figures to my fingertips. I mean in Canada it's always very close to 50%, it's in the upper 40s. And in the US, I don't believe it has changed much, so we'll have to come back.

Okay. Thank you.

I will just comment on drop shipping in Canada. The trend is slightly more towards warehouses as in direct shipments in 2012.

Okay.

But it's still nearly 50-50 as Richard has mentioned.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from [ph] Oto Chang. (24:00) Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon. My first question relates to the EBITDA margins. I mean they were down this quarter, and you highlight that certain variable costs weren't able to – you guys weren't able to reduce variable cost quick enough. And I'll also highlight the IT cost. Can you, I guess break down the magnitude of the differences between these two costs? And also mention or discuss the fact whether these variable costs are now in check? [ph]

Oto (24:30) , I would tell you that we spoke mainly about overall costs that we're not reduced fast enough for that. Because quite frankly, labor, as I said, about 200 and somewhat people less than we had at the end of June, so there was a lot of reduction that were done there. Unfortunately, what happens when you got a slowdown in the business like that your delivery trucks are still doing the same routes there, they're just traveling with less product in them, and your costs are pretty much the same.

In terms of the more fixed cost like leases and locations and all of that, obviously the cost-reduction program will look after a lot of that. We announced this in August to the end September. Very little of that was done already at that point. It will begin in the fourth quarter and 2013 mainly. That's really where we are, so that when you have a fairly marked downturn in the level like that, it's not unusual for the cost, unfortunately, not to be adjusted exactly at the same time.

Okay. That's helpful. And then I guess just following on that. With respect to your commentary on the decline in organic growth, is that a trend that we should expect to go forward? I mean, I understand you do mention that Q4 is up a little, but I mean, is it up enough to offset the...

As you know, we don't give guidance, what I will tell you generally speaking, we've seen a little bit better on the Canadian side. And on the U.S. side, very difficult to give you a complete picture. I'm not trying to punt here, but with the event of Sandy, that affected the last week of October, I don't like to comment on what I've seen so far. It's still difficult from an organic point of view in the first few days of Q4.

Okay. Great. And my last question just relates to the inventory levels. As you guys said, inventories were down about CAD 65 million year-to-date. And I mean, last year in Q4, you guys have ramped up inventories, should we expect that similar in Q4, or should we expect inventories to trend lower?

Okay. Well, I would tell you that other than some special purchases that could always come and that we don't necessarily see right now, we would expect to lower the inventories by further CAD 15 million during the last quarter of the year. Now at this stage, and because those things always have a tendency to commence during the very last days of the quarter, we may have offered from some manufacturers with some special either price protect or special discounts at the end of the year. And if we were to do that, believe me, we will do it only having payment terms that would make sure that we do not affect borrowings negatively by taking advantage of some of those potential offers.

Okay. Okay, great. Thank you. That's all I have for now.

I'd like to add one more thing with respect to the margin, just to give you a better flavor. The reduction of 2% came from the fact that the sales dropped faster than the expenses. And the second one is it's almost 2% related to that. But we had a good news with the better buying condition, the fact that we're lower expenses with the cost-reduction plans that had the 1%. So, at the end of the day, we have a minus 2%, partially offset by positive 1% plus, 1% related to the cost-reduction program.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from [ph] Vincent Perry (28:44) . Please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon gentlemen.

Hello, Vince.

Hey. Hello.

Hello. I'm sorry if I get back on the organic growth topic. In your comments, you mentioned that the weakness is temporary. At the same time, in your comments in the press release, you do mention that you expect that to continue to affect the balance of the year. And at the same time, you're talking about Canada in the last month or so, you're seeing a little bit on improvements. So can you give us just a little bit of a bigger picture here, what we could expect going forward?

Well, I thought I've been clear. But as I said in Canada, during the fourth quarter we see a slight improvement certainly compared to what we saw in the third quarter. In the U.S., right now, we have fairly limited vision, because, in any case, I don't want to speculate next year. In the fourth quarter, we still see some pressure in terms of the sales, again, especially in the Northeast and Great Lakes region.

When we see that it's temporary, as I mentioned during my notes, we are still very optimistic that the perspective for our industry remain good when you look at the number of vehicles on the road, each of those vehicles. And as we see the employment situation improving people have to get to their jobs and drive to go there and need to have a more dependable vehicle, the outlook is still very favorable. So that's really what we mean when we talk about temporary situation right now.

And that's the situation that has lasts for about six months. It started in mid April. I know when we're working like we're and we have this day-to-day, it seems like an eternity, but it's been going on for about six months right now.

Okay. And all these initiatives that you're putting in place to counter this or at least to mitigate it from the margin side, you gave us some numbers. I mean, how quickly you think that could positively impact the margins? Can we see that already in the next quarter or is that going to play out over the next six-plus months?

I mean we've already started doing, cutting some costs, so obviously, that will be of a favorable nature in the coming quarter. How it will all workout is also a matter of what the sales do obviously. We do expect that most of the current initiatives on the cost-reduction will be completed in the course of 2013. And as we mentioned, there will be in 2014 and 2015 additional improvements in operating cost generated by the completion of our the modernization of our IT structure.

Just one thing I want to make sure though is that nobody does double count, but the close to CAD 2 million reduction in costs coming from the implementation of our systems was already and to a great extent included in the CAD 21 million reduction in cost that we had announced three months ago for 2013 with the cost-reduction program. So just, so I'm here or there, okay. Does that answer your question, Vince?

Yes. And just one other comment. In your comments you mentioned higher customer returns, if I understood correctly, if that's the case, could you elaborate on that?

Well, basically, what happens especially on the Canadian side, when the activity is very slow that's when most of your independent customers basically do what they should all be going to remain very healthy and that's take advantage of the return activities that they are entitled to. What it does though in our side is it has a double whammy. I mean, it reduces sales when we issue those credits and it increases the handling costs, because we've got the process those reserves. And that's part of the business as usual. So I don't want to give you the idea that, this never happens, it always happens. In a quarter where the sales are weaker on the Canadian side, like we have this year, this quarter. The impact is more noticeable than usual.

So how much would you figure that impacted your organic growth decline in Canada?

It's probably a couple of percentage points, but I'm speculating at this stage. I mean, it's very difficult when you're to basically isolate, what is normal rate versus what is exceptional rate. But obviously, when we talked about the reviews and all of that, it's a constant theme that comes back, a lot of the customers were basically doing their cleanup.

Okay. And can you give us – sure.

And as I said, by the way, this is something that has to be done on a regular basis, if you wanted to keep your customer base very healthy with very good inventories, so they can serve their customers. It's just that the impact is more noticeable when it slows down.

Okay. Can you give us an update on the FinishMaster? If you could comment, perhaps, on the organic growth in that segment and where you see your market position? And I recall we were focusing on some cross selling initiatives there in consolidating some of the locations, could you just give us a little bit of color there?

I will start with that answer, and then I'll ask my colleague, Dan Courtney, to complete the answer in terms of their market position right now. I will tell you that, we are seeing we're gaining market share as we see – when we look at the overall position, we're doing better than what the market is doing there. I do not want to comment by segment in the U.S., quite frankly. But the we are gaining some market share there. I'll keep it at that.

In terms of the cross selling opportunities, we have a couple of locations where we have started the test programs. They're going well, it's still very early. We have one location that has been in the cross-selling mode for the last couple of months. And we basically are 60% to 70% of the objectives right now, so it's progressing very nicely.

There is a second location that started in middle of October, so it's still a little bit early, but we do have good reasons to believe that we'll be successful. And there is a third location that will be launched in December of this year, where again, we do believe that it will be good. This being said, it's still in the early stage of that level, but it follows exactly the plan that we had set for ourselves.

Dan, would you care to add maybe more color on what's going on in your market, and the fact that you're gaining market share?

Yes, the market I believe is mature and at the [ph] CIMA (37:01) show, there would have been conversation that most paid vendors are relatively flat. So I believe we're gaining market share with our modest growth. And it's being done by a continued sales focus and specific customer attraction. And on the cross selling piece, we're being very deliberate, but we're doing everything we can to leverage our positive relationship with a collision repair center and getting the right inventory at the right place. So we can execute well and maintain that positive relationship we have with the customers.

Okay. Thank you for that. And my last question Richard, if you could give us some feedback on the [ph] Apex (37:50) show, I'll appreciate that?

Well, that's a very broad question.

Give us the highlight.

What I will tell you is that we were there, the team of Uni-Select, as usual, meeting with manufacturers and looking at some of the trends. There were a lot of meetings that took place. And we do believe that it was a very positive outcome, very positive show for us, as it is pretty much every year for us. We also talked about a lot of our other colleagues in the industry, always keeping an eye for people who would be eventually looking for an exit strategy, because you know that this is part of our ongoing strategy.

It was when we were talking to the people there, or listening to other people, the common theme was that the performance of the industry in the north eastern part of the U.S. is cited as one of the difficult areas in general. And that was one of the common theme that I heard when I was there. So, I don't think that we are exceptional in that regard. But all in all, it was very interesting. And I think, as usually we do always invest for the future during that week.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from [indiscernible] (39:37). Please go ahead.

Yes, hi, thanks. My questions, I guess is a follow-up to that, is what's the acquisition pipeline landscape looking like right now for Uni-Sélect?

You know we never comment on that. I mean we are maintaining that strategy alive. We have several discussions, but I know you're experienced enough to know that the M&A field is a bit like going to fishing. And then you basically cast and you see what really comes to you. We have filed there.

We certainly are not changing our strategy of making acquisitions. As we mentioned to you last quarter and the quarter before, certainly, right now, our priority is to reduce indebtedness. It's something that we know is on the mind of several of our shareholders, the fact that we have a bit more debt than we used to have following the acquisition of FinishMaster. And we've lowered the debts significantly during the quarter. We'll continue during the coming quarter.

Obviously, if there is some interesting potential for corporate development we will do it. What we've been doing in the quarter is rather some smaller location stores that basically have shored up our distribution network. And that's mainly the activities that have taken place. But we continue to be on the lookout for people who are looking for an exit strategy, as long as it makes sense with our business and that the price is reasonable.

Well, I guess, there's another way of asking. I mean if the Northeast is having difficulties right now and you see some of your competitors I guess, maybe smaller or even larger is struggling, do you see more opportunities because of that, because of the fact that there are some difficulties right now for everybody?

In time of difficulties, there is always opportunity.

Yeah, okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question is from Benoit Porier. Please go ahead.

Yeah, thanks. Just to come back on [ph] Leon's (42:11) questions about the M&A. We've seen useful around Park West [indiscernible] (42:17) looking for sale. I was wondering if you see a similar trend with private companies, and if you feel this is kind of favorable conditions for you going forward?

No, I don't really want to comment on what rumors are out there and everything, so I would really – and I'm not trying to be cute here, I apologize. But I will refer you to my answer to Leon, and I will not go any further into that.

Okay. Perfect. And you're just back from the big auto show in Vegas. Is there any feedback you want to share from an industry standpoint?

Basically as I mentioned, earlier at events, it was a good week for us, I mean working with our manufacturers and making sure that we work together to continue to develop the business. As I mentioned, the common thing that I heard from many other people is that the Northeast remains the more affected area right now. And I guess that shouldn't be a surprise to anybody, we're all positive on the outlook for the industry given the fundamentals.

Okay, excellent. And last question, when we look at dividend, you're on the CAD 0.13 payable in January, but given earnings are down year-to-date versus last year, is it something that is at risk, or would you feel comfortable to revise your dividend policy?

No. This is the prerogative of the board to decide what they will do, usually adjust that once a year. And without wanting to go too far there, I'd be surprised that we'd change the policies or practices. I would also probably, but don't think me on that. At the moment, nobody is starting, but reducing the dividend or whatever. But then again that's the prerogative of the Board, they usually adjust that once a year, early in the New Year. And until then, we continue to the way we are right now.

Okay. Thanks for the time.

Welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from [indiscernible] (44:45) Please go ahead.

Hi. Just a quick follow-up question. Back to the dividend actually. And you guys generate quite free cash flow, obviously part of debt reduction. But beyond that, I mean, dividend share buyback and dividend like, even a significant – and what are your thoughts on a significant dividend increase? [ph]

Elaine (45:08) I know that you have published on that level, and that's your opinion and I respect it. And I also know that right now your clients are looking for yields. That's really what everybody looking for given the very low performance on the bonds and so on and so forth. When I look at it, I'm looking at it from the management of this corporation. And I think I've been pretty clear, albeit earlier that we're looking more at reducing debt than anything else, and then looking at potential for reinvestment in our business, so that we continue to grow.

I appreciate that. And just quickly on the covenants if we could just get, banks covenant in particular is the funded debt to EBITDA ratio?

Basically, we're meeting our covenants, and we still expect to reduce it by the end of this year to reduce the indebtedness.

Okay, great. Thank you.

And by the way, [ph] Elaine (46:11) to come back to your earlier question with respect to drop ship, this year we're talking 17% of our sales in the U.S. as compared to 15% last year.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would like to turn the meeting back over to you Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much, Valerie. Well, I simply want to thank you for your interest in Uni-Sélect and all of your interesting questions. And I look forward to talk to you at the end of February when we will be releasing our final year-end results. So, again, thank you very much for your interest. And hopefully, all of you are doing very well. Take care. Bye, bye.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation.