Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Eric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steven J. Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and Chief Operating Officer, Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc.
Elizabeth Johnston — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Divya Sanjay Rastogi — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the 2017 First Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to [ph] Ms. Helen Barry (00:14). Please go ahead, [ph] Ms. Barry (00:16).

Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Presenting this morning are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; and Eric Bussières, CFO. Following their comments, we will open the call for questions. Joining us today for your questions are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster, U.S.A.; and Gary O'Connor, President and COO of Automotive Canada.

Please note that all documents referred to in today's conference call including this webcast presentation can be found on our website, uniselect.com in the Investors section.

As noted on slide 2, I would I'd like to remind you that a caution regarding forward-looking statements apply to our presentation and comments. All amounts are expressed in U.S. dollar except as otherwise specified.

With that, let me turn the presentation over to Henry.

Great. Thank you, Helen. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. I'd like to invite you to look at slide 3 of the document posted on our website for this call. In the first quarter of 2017, Uni-Select delivered good overall results and made progress on its strategic initiatives. Total sales reached $297 million, up 13% from last year, with FinishMaster U.S.A. up 15%, and Canadian Automotive Group, up 8%.

EBITDA was up 6.8% to $23.2 million with EBITDA margin at 7.8%. Net earnings were $11 million or $0.26 per share. We paid a dividend in Q1 of CAD 0.085 we announced a dividend increase of 8.8% to CAD 0.0925 per share payable in Q2.

In the quarter, we actively pursued our expansion with one greenfield opening and five business acquisitions including four at FinishMaster with net additions of 16 locations and one in Automotive Canada adding two locations.

Now, please turn to slide 4. 2017 Q1 highlights for FinishMaster, the first quarter was softer than planned on an organic basis, we continue to be impacted by the product line changeover as we previously discussed. The underlying market was a little softer than expected with the organic sales roughly flat. We continue to make very good progress on our strategy to expand our coverage and build density in key markets.

We opened and are gaining traction with our first location in Portland, Oregon. FinishMaster entered a new U.S. state with the acquisition of Hi-Tec in Alaska, operating in Fairbanks and Anchorage. Additional expansion continue with acquisitions in New Jersey Massachusetts. And in the quarter, we completed our largest acquisition yet at FinishMaster with the D'Angelos adding 14 locations and building density in key Western U.S. markets.

On organic growth, we continue to operate on multiple fronts, expanding our private label offer, launching various sales initiatives, setting up dedicated customer segment teams, and accelerating our industrial coatings market initiative. In parallel, we continue to focus on improving our operating efficiency by optimizing our distribution network integrating our acquisitions and capturing our synergies.

Please turn to slide 5. As we noted in our last call, we believe we have a very significant opportunity to increase our market share of the very large industrial coatings marketplace. We have identified key market segments to focus on initially with a market potential of $4.4 billion.

The industrial coatings marketplace is highly fragmented and provides FinishMaster unique opportunity to utilize the current branch and distribution center infrastructure to effectively grow market share. There is currently no national player in this space. We have launched a dedicated force of experienced industrial team members. We have our key vendor partners in place and the good news is our current primary paint suppliers will continue to be our industrial partners.

We are rolling out this initiative initially to eight target markets nationally. Our primary focus would be organic growth. However, we will also look to complement this with select acquisitions as needed.

Turning to page 6. We made a significant amount of progress at our Automotive Group in Canada. Overall sales were up 7.6%. Our organic sales were up 3.4% excluding one customer loss. Excluding this loss, all regions and groups experienced positive organic growth. The new national automotive aftermarkets parts brand is gaining terrific momentum with our independent customers along with our corporate stores. Our independent customers now have two brands and offers to choose from.

In terms of both our BUMPER TO BUMPER automotive parts stores and our FinishMaster Canada paint and body and equipment stores, we are making great progress. We are driving strong organic sales growth with both while building a strong foundation in the business. Our focus continues to be people, processes, and systems as we build the corporate store group across Canada.

Now with that, over to you, Eric, for our financial review.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. I now invite you to turn to slide 8. Consolidated sales for the first quarter reached $297 million, an increase of 13% against the first quarter of 2016. This increase has driven from recent business acquisitions. The organic growth was impacted by the product line changeover in the U.S. and the loss of an independent member in Canada.

Excluding these elements, organic growth would have been approximately 60 basis points. Sales from FinishMaster U.S.A. reached almost $200 million, up 15% against prior year first quarter, thanks to the business acquisitions.

The Canadian Automotive Group segment rose to $98 million, an increase of 8%, mainly from the various business acquisition and positive organic growth excluding the loss of that independent member. As I mentioned before, Q1 and Q4 are our softest quarters and this quarter was no different – it was impacted by a sales decrease by 12% against the fourth quarter.

Turning to slide 9, our first quarter EBITDA was $23 million compared to $22 million last year, an increase of over 7% driven by the incremental contribution from FinishMaster U.S.A. The EBITDA margin for the quarter was 7.8% compared to 8.2% last year, the EBITDA margin was partially impacted by the lower absorption of fixed cost such as employee benefits due to the negative organic sales and the different revenue gains.

Please turn now to slide 10, earnings from the first quarter was $11 million or $0.26 a share compared to $0.47 a share, down $0.01 per share for the same period last year, mostly due to the increased intangible amortization and increased financing costs related to the various acquisitions.

The blended tax rate for Q1 was 34.5% compared to 37.5% for the same quarter last year. The decrease is due to a different mix of geographic taxable income.

Moving to slide 11, as mentioned previously, sales are up 13% compared to the same quarter, mainly in relation to the recent acquisitions, representing the increase of 17%. As expected, organic growth was impacted by the product line changeover in FinishMaster and by the loss of an independent customer for our Canadian operations. EBITDA rose by 6.8% from accretive business acquisition and improved buying conditions in the quarter.

Please turn now to slide 12. For the first quarter, cash flow from operating activities totaled $3 million, an $11 million improvement compared to the first quarter of last year. The five business acquisition required $78 million of cash and was mainly financed by our credit facility and the some cash on hand. Free cash flow grew by 14% to $22 million, mainly from the positive operating income from newly acquired businesses.

I would like to share with you some of the progress we've achieved in our working capital during the quarter. Net of acquisition closed during the quarter, and net of FX impact, we managed to reduce the overall inventory by $8.6 million, notwithstanding the need to prepare for the spring season in Canada, and this was achieved without impacting our bill rates.

We were successful in securing two suppliers for our vendor financing program and will continue to do so when it make sense. We manage to improve our collection rate and achieve our KPIs in both segments, and we also improved the overall aging of our receivables when compared to Q4 2016.

Please turn now to slide 13, at the end of March, outstanding total net debt stood at $199 million from $112 million at the end of last quarter, an increase of $87 million, mainly due to the acquisitions for the leverage ratio of total net debt-to-EBITDA of 1.82 times. Access to liquidity is robust. We have over $200 million in available credit facility.

To summarize the quarter, I invite you to turn to slide 14. Good revenue growth in Q1 2017, compared to same period last year, driven by accretive business acquisitions. The EBITDA margin for the quarter was 7.8%. For our first quarter, cash from operating activities was good stood at $3 million, an $ 11 million improvement compared to same period last year.

Adjusted net earnings amounted to $11 million or $0.26 a shares. Sound financial position to pursue our M&A activities in both segments. We gave a quarterly dividend of CAD 0.085 per share. And as mentioned by Henry earlier on, we are now paying a quarterly dividend increase of 8.8% to CAD 0.0925 per shares. We're in very good financial position to actively seize and seek growth opportunity.

This completes my financial review, back to you Henry.

Great. Thanks, Eric. So, everyone, our game plan has not changed. Very simply, at FinishMaster U.S.A., we will continue to focus on profitable growth through the combination of organic and acquisitive initiatives. We are stepping up our focus on a number of fronts including the industrial coatings initiative.

At Automotive Canada, we are highly committed to building BUMPER TO BUMPER and FinishMaster into the leading brands in our space. We are making great progress. Our focus on people, process, and systems is truly building that solid footing for continued and growing profitable growth. We have a robust acquisition pipeline and a host of organic growth opportunities and we are relentlessly focused on execution.

Finally, I'd like to thank our Uni-Select team members, our customers, our supplier partners, and our shareholders for their past and continued support.

On that note, we'd like now to open up the call for questions. Paul, if you would open up the call, please.

Certainly. Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Your line is open.

Yeah. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning, Benoit.

Yeah. I was wondering if you could provide more color about the unexpected loss of the independent member whether there was specific issues to that member. Any thought about the location and the risk you see other members taking a similar decision?

No. Listen, that's a great question. And of all of the analysts I've talked to, a number of shareholders, since probably two years since we launched the BUMPER TO BUMPER corporate store initiative, we voiced that there's sort of three camps and I will describe it the exact same way as I did in the beginning. We have a group of customers that love the corporate store initiative because that provides the succession opportunity for them. And for those customers, independent customers that are looking for succession opportunity maybe now or in the next number of years because they don't have one internally, corporate stores are great.

The other group and the biggest part of the population is independent customers and we love our independent customers. We're continuing to support them and we want to grow that segment. Some of them said, okay, it's interesting, but how is that going to affect us. And two years on now, we have 49 corporate stores in BUMPER TO BUMPER, and we're not losing members because of that, because we're not going into markets. We're absorbing capacity in those markets. We're not going in and competing with those independent members.

Now, I also said that there is a very small number of independents like a literally tiny number of independent members that don't like it at all because, in fact, they actually act and behave like competitors and they would prefer to beat us as opposed to have us at corporate stores. So, in reality, that's where the member loss comes from. We don't see a stack more of it. We voice that there's a small risk over here. And quite frankly, we're in a good position moving forward.

Okay. And would it fair when we look at the number of independent members close to a 1,100 versus 49 corporate store, what would be the revenue contribution from independent members, if we look specifically at automotive revenues?

Yeah, we're not going to provide that split. We don't break the segments out in terms of corporate store sales and FinishMaster sales and independents. What I will say though is that our independent sales are actually growing nicely, and the number of independents we have today is actually growing. So, we're bringing new independent members into our network, and we're happy to do that, and we're looking to continue that growth.

So, growth, our dedication to this company has always been to help that independent member grow and thrive in their marketplace, so we have lots of sort of mutual competitors out there that we're focused on – focused on growing our businesses with those independent members. So, we want more of their share of wallet, I call it, and we also want more independent members to cover this country better.

Okay. And if we switch gears to the paint side, obviously, full impact of your product line changeover in Q1. If you strip that out, you would still be negative at 0.8%. So, could you maybe provide an update on why the organic growth would be down, was it more a weather driven, MSO or if you could provide any color, that would be great?

Yeah, sure. I think that's a totally fair question. We're all here together. At the end of the day, we're a little disappointed as well. We have the product line changeover we talked about, so that impact is there. So, the underlying organic growth is roughly flat, so it's not exciting, but the market behind it is in the same boat. I mean, our competitors are experiencing a very similar environment, our customers are experiencing that environment. Maybe Steve, you could add some more color to that.

Yeah. And Benoit, you stated that the softness of the market, both the East Coast and the Midwest with a lack of any significant winner. The repairs are down in those shops. The MSOs as you asked about, they, in the first quarter really had fewer acquisitions and fewer openings of greenfields and brownfields. But this continues to grow throughout the year. So, we're expecting to see more growth out of that segment in the second, third, and fourth quarter.

Okay. Perfect. And maybe last one for me as I get back in the queue. Any color, Eric, on the stock-based incentive impact in Q1 and also the impact of the independent member loss on the EBITDA margin?

Yeah. So, look, on the stock base, if you recall back in Q1 2016, the share price went down after our Q4 results and, accordingly, the stock-based compensation costs was reduced. So, when you're comparing Q1 2016 versus Q1 2017, that's the first element that you need to keep in mind. Dollar-for-dollar, the expense for the same number of shares of DSUs, PSUs was higher in Q1 2017 versus 2016 due to the share price. And if you recall also that we started putting a hedging program back in Q3 2016 so that volatility that we used to have is no longer present.

The second element to keep in mind is Q1 is also when the company [ph] invest or (17:17) distribute new PSUs, DSUs and that's just a pattern. It's always the case and I made that comment in the past that usually have an impact in Q1. So, those are the two main criteria, Benoit.

Okay. And what about the impact of the independent member loss on margins? Is it something you can quantify, Eric?

No. It's not something that we're going to quantify per se Benoit. But what I will tell you is that, as Henry has pointed out, we secured new members, new customers, and we are very confident that the loss of EBITDA will be replaced in a short order.

Okay. Thanks for the time, and I'll get back in the queue.

Thank you. Benoit.

Thanks, Benoit.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Tony.

Yes, hi. Good morning, Henry, Eric.

Good morning.

If we look at Canada [ph] ex the loss (18:16), you were saying that there was a solid to organic growth rate about 3.4%. Could you give us a bit of detail on that 3.4%, was there any pricing inflation in light of where the Canadian dollar is? And is it because of cost of raw materials have risen or is that to come?

So, two parts to that, in terms of the raw materials, we're not seeing any price increases

Nothing significant anyway.

No.

Price increases are pretty flat.

Yeah. And quite frankly, the underlying organic growth resides – and this is the exciting part for us, it resides across the country. So, we've always talked about the slowness in Alberta that stopped last quarter. We've got some positive organic growth in the Prairies right now, which is exciting. So, all regions, excluding the loss, have done a very good job.

And then both the customer elements to it, both the industrial customers are up on a consolidated basis across the country and the corporate stores, FinishMaster and BUMPER TO BUMPER Canada are both up extremely well in terms of organic growth.

So, the underlying business is extraordinarily strong in our view and that seems to be continuing nicely into the month of April. So, our view is we've got a great outlook and we'll continue to focus on building the foundation, the footing for that business. So, we're optimistic on where it's headed.

Okay. With reference to industrial paint side, like how are the test progressing? Is it running better than expected or pretty much in line?

Hey, Tony. This is Steve. Right now, we're on plan, as we stand today. One of the things that – decisions that we made is we want to accelerate our progress into the pilot markets. So, we have, by prescription, taken our time and hired more industrial experts. So, we can accelerate our growth in that. So, I'd say it's on track right now.

Okay. Steven, a follow-up on that potential merger between the two titans in the paint business – PPG and AkzoNobel. How do you see the market changing if and when that occurs?

I'll speak about FinishMaster. I don't know what's going to happen in the market. But FinishMaster is positioned in a great position, being that we're PPG's largest supplier and we are AkzoNobel's largest supplier. No matter what happens there, we feel that we're in a great position to benefit from the merger.

Okay. And last question, with reference to M&A targets, Henry, what's the highest target that you're looking in terms of pricing and what's the lowest in terms of potential target acquisitions? And how comfortable are you to bringing your net debt-to-EBITDA – I mean at the end of the quarter, you were at 1.8 times and, at Q4, you were at 1 time. So, how high are you willing to go and what do you see out there?

Okay. There's a few questions in that one. So, just to start off on the M&A pipeline, we've got an M&A pipeline in both businesses today and we're very, very happy, and the size varies. There's no single one. The biggest one we've done so far, as you know, is D'Angelos. That was the most sizable one. And there are some targets out there that are in similar size. But for us, we don't just go looking for size, we look very specifically for a fit in terms of culture for us and a fit in terms of our strategy and that is very clearly in building out our geographic coverage in the markets and building out some density in the big core markets.

So, not every target is the right target for us. So, there's a variety of sizes and like we said all the way long, we're happy to do tuck-ins. In Canadian space for example, we've done lots of tuck-in opportunities, some good, medium sized targets, they're there. If a big ones come up, we're happy to look at those as well. But again, they also have to fit the strategy, fit our network and we've said all the way long, we're going to absorb capacity typically as opposed to going out adding capacity in the Canadian markets.

In terms of our leverage, I mean, Eric and I, we've said all the way along, we're very comfortable [ph] 2, 2.5 (22:50) on a regular run rate basis. We're happy to stretch beyond that 3 and get creative beyond that if we need to. We're going to make sure we're in a position to seize any of the significant opportunities that do come up and we're clearly positioned for that.

I don't know, Eric, would you have...

Yeah. I mean, bear in mind also, Tony, that we generate a fair amount of cash. And firstly, I'm very pleased with the Q1. Q1 tends to be the toughest quarter for Uni-Select in terms of cash flow because of the seasonality and because of the timing of repayment to suppliers and all that.

So, quite frankly, I'm confident that if we're not to make any more acquisitions, that leverage would go down fairly quickly. So, I think we have the maneuver to do what needs to be done.

Okay. Well, thank you very much, gentlemen.

Great. Thanks, Tony.

Thank you. The next question is from Elizabeth Johnston. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Elizabeth.

Good morning.

Good morning.

If we could return briefly to the discussion on the loss of the independent member in Canada, was it the member that had been doing business with Uni-Select for a quite a long time, was it a long-term customer of yours?

Yeah, sure. Actually, most of our customers are very long-term customers. We've got a great family of independent customers across Canada. And like I said, there is going to be a one, two-ish folks that really want to be our competitors in a lot of ways. They want to beat us, and that's good for them. I mean, if they want to turn around and that's their strategy, they want to build out and become a warehouse distributor [indiscernible] (24:25) then that's completely in their right. And at some point, they'll fit with our network and that will happen. So, quite frankly – Gary, jump in – I'm not losing any sleep over it and we're happy to move forward.

But the reality is, over our history, we've always gained and lost customers every year, and that's part of the game for various reasons and that's why we're always searching new business and making sure that our pipeline is full, and that our market share is stable.

And we added customers in the quarter, so...

All right. And was this a customer that had business across Canada or is this specific to a particular region?

It's in a region. Yeah.

Okay. And like the impact we've seen with the product line changeover, this headwind in Canada, should we expect this to persist through 2017?

Well, I mean, the annualized sales are going to be there. So, yeah, we're going to have the comparison for a year, absolutely. But again, we're measuring the business on our performance [indiscernible] (25:29) that customer, because that's how we operate the business.

And our outlook so far in April – our numbers have already eclipsed that on a net growth organic basis. So, the last thing we're doing is slowing down and worrying about it quite frankly. We've got lots of stuff to do besides that one. We long since moved on [indiscernible] (25:52) no news for you, but for us, we're focused on running the business, our current and new customer base.

Okay. Great. And just turning to the product line changeover in the U.S. under FinishMaster there, I think in the last call, we talked about the potential – you're potentially seeing a bit of a rebound in terms of getting some of that sales back. That seems not to have been the case. Can you give any sense as to the level that you expect this headwind to persist through the balance of 2017 and where – until, basically, Q3 when we've locked it.

Yeah. This is Steve. As Henry stated, we're going to live with this until into the fourth quarter of 2017. But I will say that we are starting to see that bounce back. We've got initiatives in place to make sure that we're capturing any of that business that we possibly can.

Okay. Great. And finally for me just going back to Canada, and the EBITDA margin there, the contraction year-over-year, would you say that that contraction going from around 5% to 2%, is most of that related to corporate store initiatives or is it more a mix of factors there?

Actually, it's three things. There is a mix factor in terms of revenue stream, there is the investment we're making in the corporate stores as we mentioned in prior calls. And I would say the other element that you could keep in mind is what I've mentioned about the DSUs, PSUs that impacted all segments – corporate, FinishMaster and CAG linked to the share price and the additional units that were allocated.

And is any one of those the largest impact?

No. Look, I would say revenue mix is certainly an element that impacted the segment. And when I look at my core investments on the deployment of our corporate store strategy, we're tracking to what we were expecting. So, it's hard to measure it very differently.

And in terms of corporate store strategy, these investments, would you expect to make a similar level through the rest of this year?

Yeah. Look, what we've said is we are moving to the PartsWatch System. We are making those investments and to convert all those stores two a unified system. And quite frankly, it's the right thing to do. And we want to get the synergies out from all those stores that we purchased and we have two streams going on to make that happen and it's absolutely the right thing to do. The fastest we do that, the quickest we can realize the synergies and the more efficient we can be in terms of inventory management and so forth.

I would only add that – I'll challenge anybody in Canada to go and have a look at some of the stores that we have now renovated. So, you look at a current BUMPER TO BUMPER store and you make a comparison to what that store looked like before and the experience for our customers both in terms of service and the walk-up experience and the environment for our team members. This is a quantum change in our business in terms of how we operate.

So, we're extraordinarily happy with it and I keep repeating the words; people, processor, and systems, because it is all three of those. We've put in a great leadership team in place in both parts, East and Western Canada today. We've added key team members. We've systems in terms of PartsWatch, as Eric mentioned, and that process installation is going on really, really well. But then, we've added all of the standard operating procedures into the business to make sure we have that consistent customer experience. So, we're very, very happy with the investment and the progress we're making as a team.

So, benefits from this investment, will we be seeing that starting in 2018 then in terms of margin?

Yeah. I mean, that's certainly what we're aiming for. We want [indiscernible] (29:44) significant investment in 2017 to standardize and streamline all our stores. So, we would think that those investments for the existing stores will be more or less completed by the late 2017, early 2018. So, it would be certainly in our game plan to see improvement of margins thereafter.

Okay. That's all from me. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Elizabeth.

Thanks, Elizabeth.

Thank you. The next question is from Jonathan Lamers. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jonathan.

Good morning, Jonathan.

Good morning. Following up on that last question, Eric, you indicated the investments in Canada would be completed late 2017, early 2018. Is that for both the PartsWatch System and for the rebranding programs?

Yes, that is correct. The program is all-encompassing and you may have a store where we do the branding first and then the system a couple of weeks later or vise versa. But yes, absolutely, that's the goal that we're going to do all those stores within the next – mostly by the end of the year, maybe a little bit in 2018.

Yeah. Let's be realistic, guys, because at the end of the day, our intention is to buy more stores. So, what we're trying to do is get a platform like we have at FinishMaster, where we have a very simple cadence where we'd be able to acquire a store, put it on our operating system within circa three months, and then we start capturing synergies in that way.

So, what we've had to do in 2017 is play catch-up. So, we're getting ourselves in a position where we're sort of no operating system to integrate them to, get that banner system in and we have a 12-month, 12- to 18-month catch-up, if you will, to get them into that point.

But once we get into a regular cadence in early 2018, then we'll be adding stores, integrating them, investing, but also getting them on to the system and capturing the synergies quicker.

Okay. And could you remind us how the new point-of-sale system will improve the cost efficiency for those stores, is it better tracking of the ....

Multiple level, Jonathan...

.... allowing you to renegotiate purchasing?

Well, I would say that's at multiple level, right. This is a system that is highly geared towards improving ourselves, that the person at the calendar will have the information on one screen, they can track that faster. We'll have, obviously, synergies on back office. [ph] Right now, I have (32:12) a number of clusters and each clusters requires energies and support functions and just take the back office on AR/AP and the likes.

So, once you have a unified system, you can actually streamline and get efficiencies there. And then we'll tell you the other benefit is visibly on inventory on a minute-by-minute basis, as opposed to reporting your inventory on a weekly, daily, on a manual basis.

So, there's a number of benefits coming from adding a point-of-sale system and, quite frankly, for me, the optimal element or value added will be on the front-end, because they will allow us to be a lot more efficient from a sales process perspective.

Yeah. So, to put this perspective again, we're buying companies and we have right now six different operating systems, as we buy different companies on different operating systems. So, we need this to have our point-of-sale platform. And to be very clear, this is point-of-sale, it has to tie in and integrate with our SAP back-end in Canada. That SAP back-end is already built and operational. So, we just need to be able to connect the two, have one single connected platform so we provide the customers at the store level an exceptional experience in terms of being able to find the parts quicker, operate the transaction quickly, but also integrate seamlessly into the back-ends so we can capture all the synergies.

Okay. In the U.S. segment, were there integration costs this quarter and would you be able to quantify those, Eric?

Yeah. There was, we did have some integration cost this quarter, I would say , it's probably under $0.5 million all-in-all and we will have more. That's why we don't segregate those information, Jonathan, because we are an acquisitive company and we're not going to excuse us for all the tuck-in activities [ph] that currently (34:00) goes with it. But if I just take D'Angelo that we closed in January, I mean, there's a fair amount of opportunity here from a consolidation standpoint. And it will actually – it will happen over the next foreseeable months.

Okay. So, assuming no further acquisitions, there would be further acquisition integration costs in Q2 and potentially later in the year?

Yeah. There is for sure because we're going to rationalize our footprint in certain markets and thereby closing certain stores and optimizing those stores. But if I take D'Angelo, we did pay a little bit outside of the range as [ph] we've been engaged (34:36) before, but the reality is post-synergy this deal will be highly accretive and the way to capture those synergies is – one of the activity is to have its consolidation done on certain sites.

Okay. And some of your suppliers have recently flagged rising raw material costs. Do you see that as providing for price inflation for FinishMaster this year?

Two answers there, one for Canada, one for paint.

Yeah. Jonathan, it's Steve. Yeah, we expect to see similar price increases as we've experienced over the last several years at FinishMaster. The market is signaling to us and our founder partners is that the market is flat to up 1%. So, we will be working through that throughout the year also.

Gary, for Canada?

I think, Canada, we haven't seen and we're hoping to get some price increases. But at this time, we can't say that we've seen any price increase action for many of our suppliers at this time.

Okay. Thanks. And fees, they're flat up to 1%, would that be the inflation only and then – or would that be the mix of inflation and volumes?

It would be the mix.

Okay. And then you mentioned that customer consolidation activity was a little bit more muted in Q1 than it was in Q4.

Correct.

But is that what you've seen pick up in April?

Yeah. That's the normal build. I mean, it's really behavior that says we'll start at the beginning of the year and then at the end of the year. And so, the acquisition process is starting now and it will grow throughout the year. So, that's exactly what we experienced.

Okay. Thanks. And one last question on the Canada segment. Gary, you mentioned that it's part of the normal course of business for some independent members to leave the network every year and for the network to grow bigger as we gain new members every year. So, how should we think about kind of a normal run rate for sales in this business? I mean, was the independent member that left this quarter much larger than usual or it was just kind of normal business?

I'm not sure what normal of is. But yeah, it was a larger customer this quarter for sure. But as I said, we're aggressively looking for new business. [ph] We've signed (37:21) some new customers already and we're very confident that we're going to fill that space in the pretty short order.

Yeah. Again, just go back to my comments earlier in terms of the three camps, a very small number of slightly larger guys that like to be competitors. Those are the ones that provide us probably more risk. We have independents that have been with us since the beginning like literally decades and decades. And yeah, of course, we'll lose some for different reasons, but we don't lose many.

But we're in the process right now with our two new brands, with the BUMPER TO BUMPER brand, the rejuvenated our brand strategy. We're actually gaining members now which is something that we're highly focused on as an organic growth initiative. Our teams are out there looking to get additional members and we'll build out our network in terms of opportunities for adding members, but also, we'll consider greenfield in markets [ph] who are (38:13) not currently being covered.

Okay. Thanks for your comments.

Thanks, Jonathan.

Thank you. The next question is from Divya Rastogi. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

This Divya Rastogi filling in for Sara O'Brien from RBC Capital Markets. So, how much was stock-based compensation up year-over-year?

Hang on.

We're doing the calculation here. We got a calculator.

Sorry, [ph] about $902,000 was the overall (38:56) stock-based compensation increase. Hello?

Yes.

That's great.

Thank you. The next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead.

Hey, Michael.

Hey, guys. I just want – on the industrial side of the business, can you just – on the industrial paint side of the business, it seems as though the business model has evolved over time so that the paint dealers kind of focus on automotive or they focus on industrial. I'm just wondering like why the model [indiscernible] (39:37) so that the distributors carry both automotive refinish and industrial paint?

So, it is a different business, Michael. The service level requirements of industrial versus other refinish are different, the skill sets for the service to the customers are different, the industrial is much more technical based on the products that they're coating. And the refinish industry, it's standard process. The materials don't change, the products used don't change much. So , it's much more of a specialty business and there's not – as Henry said, we're going to utilize our brick-and-mortar basically, our delivery trucks. But from that point forward, it's really different business.

That's why we have a dedicated team set up. Steve's hired some fantastic team members. All they know is industrial. They're not refinish folks. So, I think we learned – Steve – back in the past where we tried do some industrial, a number of years ago, probably 10 years ago or more, we tried to integrate it into the existing refinish team and it didn't work. So, would that be fair?

Yeah. We did hire a consultant to come in to really help educate us, to make sure that we – what we were seeing and what we learned from our past venture into this segment were spot on. And it is a separate business and we are treating it as a separate business with leadership, with the products, even though that they are – we're using our same vendors, they are different products. It's not the same product line.

So, it is a complete – it doesn't need to be then a completely separate sales force that's going out and approaching these new – potential new customers?

It is. And we've started hiring those people now and they're all experienced veterans of the industry that know exactly what they're doing. We do about $60 million or so of industrial right now and it's with people that in our organization that pretty much specialize in that. They don't do the refinish side. So, we need to have a separate sales force, a separate leadership for this to be able to gain the traction that we believe we can in this segment.

So, what you actually leverage then is the physical sort of footprint being a place to have the paint available, is that correct?

Yeah. It's the brick and mortar.

And the deliveries.

And the rolling stock. The rolling stock that we have that will support that initiative is the same.

Okay. And maybe if I'm looking at Canada in terms of what's happening with BUMPER TO BUMPER, can you talk – are you seeing an increase in retail mix at those corporate store conversions that you did?

I think you'll see some. But at the end of the day, our focus is not retail. So, we're not trying to be O'Reilly, AutoZone. Our objective in all these things is to clean up the entire footprint. You can imagine when you buy in independents, there's a huge amount of variability so we need to establish a platform in all the fronts – people, process and systems – and the merchandizing of it is something that will actually drive a higher level of retail in the small markets we're in. But that's not our target market. That will happen as kind of a by-product and natural position to the merchandizing, the cleanup of the facilities, and we're actually seeing that now in the newly renovated facilities. But make no mistakes, we are a commercial house and that's where we're highly focused.

I agree with you.

And I don't want be too critical, but if you're a commercial-focused, like what's the point of having a nice-looking store front?

If you have been to some of our – the old independent shops, you'd understand why, right.

The other thing I would say is our commercial customers do come to our stores. They come and they look and they talk to us. They see what we have available and if it's in a good position and it's well laid out, we will be selling more products because they'll be having that visibility. So, we need to make sure that we take care of our commercial customers, as I said, they do come and we have employees also that we want to make sure that we properly given a good working environment.

Yeah. And put it in perspective, this is not going to cost us something we don't get good returns out. We're getting good returns on the uplift and sales as we clean up all elements of these businesses and remember the rolling stock is something that we're upgrading as well. So, we put the rolling stock, all of our fleet out there. We're having both the FinishMaster and in Automotive Canada, we've cleaned up our fleets so that when we show up at a customer's place of business, we have a very respectable looking vehicle and driver, uniformed. This is a service standardization and upgrade in the model.

Okay. Can you give – going back to the U.S. can you give us your updated market share pro forma D'Angelo in terms of automotive refinish?

So, as stated before, we're in the high-20s, low-30s as far as market share.

Okay. And then on your cash flow statement, your advances to merchant members has been sort of ticking higher. Can you just talk a bit about what's happening there?

Yeah. Look, there's a couple of factors here, Michael, you need to keep in mind, right. As the business is growing, we have more rebate type investments that we do. There's also, when you do those acquisition, there's a bit [ph] of a pop (45:39) on some of those investments. And last year was a bit of a turning point from the perspective that because we've been very active and we've added a lot of revenue through acquisitions, it's just normal that we'll have customer investments increasing year-over-year. I think what we've said is it's not atypical in the FinishMaster business to think about this in terms of 2.5% of sales being reinvested in that manner.

Okay. So, 2.5% of sales on that line is probably a reasonable estimate?

Yeah, yeah. Obviously. If I have a pop – bear in mind – because if I buy someone, let's say he's generating $50 million of revenue, well, I don't have the trailing 12 months out of $50 million. So, I will invest that if I had it because the business is ongoing and running and this is where you may have a disconnect in your numbers when you look at, well, they're investing more than the revenues. Well, keep in mind you need to factor in the trailing 12 months of those acquisitions to compare apples-and-apples [indiscernible] (46:40).

Okay. That's all my questions. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you. The next question is from the Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Leon.

Good morning, Leon.

Good morning, guys. Most of my questions were asked and answered. Just one question from me, I guess, would be on the working capital side. I know in your prepared remarks, you mentioned you're pleased with the inventory levels. So, I just want to see, I know there's a seasonal aspect to this, obviously, but I mean are you comfortable with your current inventory run rate? And then what do you expect the working capital requirement to be by the end of the year, let's say?

Yeah. I would see that on the run rate – stable run rate basis, we are focusing on optimizing our inventory. We've been doing that in the past and we continue to do so. And I think there is opportunities in the following quarters to do a little bit better on that side. That's what we've been tackling.

Yeah. So, the balance is, of course, two things. One is that our fill rates are absolutely critical. Our fill rates drop, we lose sales. So, we're not ever going to let that happen. So, right now in the first quarter, in Canada as an example, we had a great fill rate performance, same in the U.S. but, in Canada, we're very, very pleased with the progress there. When you buy stores, if you're buying a store, whether it'd be FinishMaster and Automotive Canada, it's easy. If you're buying one of our competitors, you can imagine, we have a huge amount of line changeovers to do.

So, you have the time it takes us to install our products into those stores and then take the products that they were selling of our competitors' lines and get rid of that stuff. So, that's kind of the natural process we need to generate through in terms of the inventory in getting that worked out of our systems. So, that's something that we're all over in terms of the stores and that's why when you see us acquire stores, we'll have that, we'll work through it. But overall, as Eric says, we're working on optimizing that inventory levels so we balance the high fill rates and get rid of that sort of non-competitive, non-core product lines.

Okay. And then last one from me would just be on the CapEx. I mean, is that still on track for what you have stated previously or what are we looking at for 2017 in terms of cash?

Yeah. I mean, what we've said is that 2017 CapEx was aimed at $22 million to $23 million for the year. And we'll revisit that number as the quarter goes by. But at this point, that's the number that we have in mind.

And still a tax rate of 32% because in the quarter, it was a little bit above that?

Yeah. 30% to 34% is the range. And the tricky part here is the revenue mix, right. So, obviously, if I have one business in one region that performed better than the other, you have to keep in mind you have state tax, you have federal taxes, and the mix is hard to predict. But I think that that's the range that is sensible right now. That's how we look at it.

Thanks guys. Best of luck.

Thank you, Leon.

Thanks, Leon.

Thank you. The next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Just to come back on the pervious question on the free cash flow, obviously, Q1 has a draw on the working capital. But for the full year, are you still confident that the working capital could be kind of neutral or any change in your view, Eric?

Well, I mean, look, outside of acquisitions which we can't predict, that's really the objective that the business units have been given and that's how we want to manage the business. As Henry said, as we deploy the PartsWatch system, as we integrate, standardize the stores, there is opportunity here to seize and manage our inventory even more efficiently. And I expect to get some of that benefits during the year.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back to Mr. Buckley.

Great. Thank you, Paul. So, in closing, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today and we'll invite all of you to join our second quarter results conference call scheduled for July 26, 2017. Thanks, everyone, and have a fantastic day.

Thank you.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.