Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations and Communications Manager, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and Chief Operating Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please standby. Your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2013 First Quarter Review Conference Call. I will now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager-Investor Relations & Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. Welcome to the 2013 first quarter review of Uni-Sélect Inc. The speakers today will be Richard G. Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO. Also attending the conference are Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada and Steve Arndt, President and COO, FinishMaster.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. Shouldn't you be familiar with the nature of our disclaimers, please read our most recent annual report available on SEDAR.

Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information followed by Richard Roy who will describe operational highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will open lines for your questions.

Thank you, Karine. Sales for the quarter were C$23 million lower than same quarter last year at C$422 million. It is worth mentioning that half of this variance is due to two less billing days this quarter versus last year. Also, store closures related to the optimization plan explain C$6.1 million of this variance. Operations were affected by a softer demand on seasonal repairs, reflecting challenging economic conditions as well as weather conditions compared to last year, resulting into a negative change organic sales growth of 1.1% or C$4.8 million. This variation is comprised of the Canadian sales positive growth of 0.3%, offset by the U.S. organic sales decline of 1.6%.

Adjusted EBITDA totaled C$17.3 million as compared to C$26.6 million realized during the first quarter last year. The adjusted EBITDA margin stood at 4.1%, representing an increase from the previous quarter, but a decrease as compared to last year first quarter at 6%. This decline is mainly attributable to a sales decrease, not entirely offset by a proportional decrease in expense and a lower gross margin due to negative channel mix and lower price protection that we benefited in the first quarter of last year.

Those item were partially offset by some cost savings derived from the optimization plan and the decrease in IT expenses as the transition to the ERP system is in progress. Our total net debt stood at C$310 million, which is similar to the level at December 31, 2012. In the quarter, we were able to improve our cash from operating activities to C$10.6 million compared to C$2.9 million for the same quarter last year. This achievement is a result of the different measures put in place to improve the working capital.

Finally, I would like to mention that we apply retroactively to 2012 the IFRS Rule 11 Joint Arrangements, under which joint ventures are now presented as a one-line item on the consolidated financial statement and financial position earnings and as a comprehensive income. There was no impact on net earnings or earnings per share, but 2012 first quarter sales have been reduced by C$5.5 million and EBITDA by C$0.8 million – C$800,000.

For your information, on an annual basis, 2012 sales have been reduced by C$24 million and EBITDA by C$3.3 million. And again, there is no impact on net earnings. It's just a new presentation under our one-line items.

And this concludes my financial review of the first quarter 2012.

Thank you very much, Denis. As mentioned in our press announcement today we're not pleased with our results, that it's certainly were below our expectations. We anticipated that the disruptions created by the deployment of our ERP system would impact our first quarter. We had mentioned that during our last call in February, and unfortunately, they had a negative impact.

The stability and slowness problems during the last call have been resolved, and we're now working and returning to our usual level of customer service. As an aside, you should know that the transition to the new software is totally done for Canada, and should be done in the U.S. sometime later this year.

While in 2012, the spring arrives early following a very mild winter. This year, spring weather conditions have been much later, actually in portions in the Northeast, it's been there for only the last 7 days or 10 days. These climate conditions certainly delayed maintenance on vehicles, which are normally done in preparation for the summer season.

So, demand for our products is also impacted by an economic environment where unemployment remains high and miles driven remain low. Regardless of the market conditions, we are all dedicated to implement our initiatives to deliver better results.

So, on April 16, we announced the change in the leadership of our U.S. automotive operations. The head of our U.S. automotive group is no longer with the company, and we have launched a recruitment process to appoint a new President and Chief Operating Officer for our U.S. parts distribution activities. In the meantime, Mr. Dennis Welvaert joined our team as an Interim President and Chief Operating Officer for our U.S. operation, and he will oversee that until we find a permanent incumbent.

Mr. Welvaert was, until recently, President of the aftermarket division of an important manufacturer of automotive parts in North America. We believe that his extensive knowledge of the industry and experience in management, as well as his long-term relationship with Uni-Sélect as a supplier, will be valuable during this transition period, and he will provide support in achieving our short-term optimization plan and sales strategy.

We also announced on April 16 that given the poor performance of our U.S. automotive parts distribution activities over the last few quarters, we would conduct a formal review of our strategic initiatives, obviously centered around that weakened area. The strategic review will be comprehensive and will evaluate all potential alternatives to further enhance shareholder value, including the feasibility cost, shareholder value creation, both short term and long term of any potential initiatives there.

In the immediate, we continue our optimization plan. In the last quarter, we closed seven stores as part of the plan. We also continued to firmly manage our costs and reduce our expenses. Thanks to the initiatives in place including different measures to improve the working capital, we were able to generate higher cash flow from operating activities compared to the same quarter in 2012. We pursue our efforts to optimize our inventory but certainly not to the detriment of our service level to our customers.

In terms of sales, we put several initiatives over the last month. In Canada, there's been several product initiatives that were well received by our customers and will continue to improve sales. We've also signed a lot of customers under our banner both for parts and paint, and also jobbers, which certainly will have a positive impact on future revenues.

The mostly flat organic sales in Canada are compared to a high level of sales last year. As you remember, last year, we had a very early spring. This year, just as a little bit color, the quarter started very good with very cold weather across the country in January but really was much more subdued in March with very low traffic levels in the service base of the customers of our customers.

In the U.S., most of the sales weakness happened mainly in the middle of the quarter. And sales are, slowly but surely, picking up.

We successfully completed several sales initiatives and signed important number of jobbers to stock and promote our Beck/Arnley products, and that bodes well for that product line, and we've also added new stores to our Auto Plus banner. Our FinishMaster subsidiary continues its good performance in recruiting new customers, which will continue to enhance its market position.

In conclusion, I want to tell you that the board of directors this morning declared a dividend of CAD 0.13 per share payable on July 19, 2013 to common shareholders of record on June 30, 2013. These complete our 2013 first quarter review. We are now ready for your questions. Please feel free to ask your questions either in French or in English. Thank you very much. Silvie?

Absolutely, sir. [Operator Instructions] There will be a brief pause while participants register for questions. We thank you for your patience. Our first question is from [indiscernible] (10:37) Please go ahead.

Thank you. I just want to ask a question on the Q1 margin. It was nice improvement quarter-over-quarter, and then you mentioned the result seemed negatively impacted year-over-year factors including the price protection. Could you explain how that works on a price protection side versus last year?

That comment was when we were talking about price protection, we were referring Q1 2013 versus Q1 2012. This is – this is a phenomenon that happened in the U.S. paint business, so I will ask my friend and colleague, Steve Arndt, maybe to explain how that works.

What really happened in the end of 2011 is the manufacturers decided to have additional opportunities at margin with price protection and price increases. So, those bled over. We really saw the benefit of those in the first quarter of 2012, so they're comparative to 2012 to 2013. 2013 is a more normal run rate when it comes to the price protect.

So, in other words, basically [ph] Elaine (11:46) is there were some – a lot of price increases at the end of 2011. We did buy larger quantities of inventory before those price increases were – came into effect. And as we sold those inventories in Q1 2012, there were some additional benefits.

Okay. So, this year, I guess, would you call it a special buy that would be the price protection? So, by that...

I guess you could call that. That's one type of special buy. That's right.

Okay. So, you have not made any special buys on the inventory side this year?

There's been some, but not to the same level. And it might be that we have different timing. It always depends on what manufacturers need to do.

And was that still on the paint side or the parts side?

That's on the paint side.

Paint side. Perfect. And in Canada, just if you can comment on if you're seeing healthy volumes come back now into Q2 so far and what's made Canada more resilient than the U.S.?

Gary, would you like to comment on Canada? Then maybe I can talk about the resilience.

Yeah. About the resilience, but there's no doubt that we're seeing in the last couple of weeks that spring has finally showed up. So, we can see – we can see increased activity in our warehouses. So, it bodes well going forward, I guess.

That's right.

So, you have volumes come back year-over-year to a more normal level before last year?

Well, we have seen the pickup in the business here in Canada over the last 10 days, two weeks, so it's still very early to comment on trends quite frankly. So, I will – we'll be very careful at this stage.

Okay. And on the comment just about Canada versus U.S. because obviously, U.S. is still seeing weakness there. Just any differences you notice in the two markets.

Well, there has been different timing in terms of when it was higher or weaker, but I will tell you that we've seen some improvements in the sales in April compared to what it was especially in the middle of the first quarter.

And in the U.S.?

Now, keep in mind – in the U.S., that's right. Keep in mind that in both Canada and U.S., there is seasonality, and typically Q2 is always more important than Q1 for the parts business.

Okay. And then on the debt side, the net debt did come down slightly despite inventories coming down almost like C$10 million. What made up the difference? I saw AR also went up as well, but if you can kind of walk us through what took up the cash this quarter?

[indiscernible] (14:15)

Okay. First of all, the first quarter is always a bit higher than the – the month of December, for example, when you look at the receivables, the month of March is way higher than the month of December. So, that's the reason why the receivables are higher [indiscernible] (14:44) – at the end of third quarter – first quarter than the fourth quarter. That's for one.

Second, what was a bit unusual this time, normally for the first quarter, we increase the inventory every first quarter in order to prepare for the busy season which is the second quarter and third quarter. What happened this year is that we, effectively, on the auto parts, increased the inventory in Canada and U.S. at the level of, let's say, $13 million, but the good news is that, on the paint side, we've been able to reduce the inventory by almost $17 million.

So, overall, on a consolidated basis, for the first time, at least for the last three years or four years, we have been able to reduce the total inventory entering the first quarter because normally we increase a bit the inventory. That's the first thing.

And that probably came from the optimization plan just looking at where you guys could cut inventory?

Well, basically, you're right. The fact that we did not have large increases both Canada and U.S. has to do with the very tight inventory management in terms of the paint element that's really – it's really a little different. It's really timing of purchases and so on, so forth. So, that's really what happened.

It is – usually, we're very happy with that because typically – because there's seasonality, inventories and that at the end of the first quarter are higher than what you would have at the end of December. And this time around, the inventories are slightly lower and the debt even basically with year-end. As you saw very well, receivables explained that because they're up and that's just because seasonality because March is a better sales month than December.

Okay. And are you still targeting the C$40 million to C$50 million of debt reduction in 2013?

Yes. That's our goal before the end of December.

Yeah.

Okay. And on the covenants, I noticed you mentioned in the MD&A, obviously, you don't provide the bank formula. But how comfortable are you on that funded debt-to-EBITDA covenants, given working capital needs and changes there in the next few quarters?

Okay. As you know, historically, we have 3.75% for the first quarter and 3.5% for the second quarter. That's the circled information that we use to provide you. And for the first quarter, I think we published 3.62%, which is below the 3.75%. And we don't want to see any issue with the covenant for the second quarter, I mean, for any quarter for 2013, by the way.

Okay. And just maybe a last one, just on – I know you won't comment obviously a lot on the details of the strategic review, but just maybe thoughts on what prompted the review at this stage?

Well, basically, we did announce some optimization of [indiscernible] (17:39). And what we saw, because it's always a very dynamic situation is that, this did not fall to the bottom line the way we have expected. Part of it is because we saw some changes in our channels and more drop ship versus more warehouse, and there were some changes in the market that we saw. So, we basically realized that we have to take an even deeper look, if I can say, to make sure that we provide really the type of results that we should be able to deliver with the parts operation.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Benoit.

You provide very good color about the impact on the top line with the less – two less billing days, stores closure, and also the decline in organic growth. I was wondering if you have made the same exercise about trying to quantify the impact on your adjusted EBITDA margin?

No. I don't believe we've done it in great details because at the end of the day, you have to make some calls in terms of where some of the fixed costs belong and so and so forth. But I will tell you is that from a seasonality adjusted type of thing, the first quarter is always one of the smallest and weakest. And the difference between 4% and 6% is not as many dollars. So, at the end of the day, not a lot of real data there. Denis?

Yeah. Benoit, I mean, as you probably know, when you remove two billing days, it's very, very significant to the rest because the rent is fixed and all the rent is already bought, electricity, all the tax is already bought. Everything is bought. So that C$23 million that, unfortunately, half of it is the two billing days, C$12 million. I can tell you, let's take a normal gross margin and a lot of it goes directly to the bottom line before tax.

Okay. Excellent. Good color. And for Q2, obviously, you'll have a better seasonality, better ramp-up also, but how would you compare Q2 2013 expectation versus what you've done last year?

I do not want to basically give guidance on that. And obviously, we know that last year, the second quarter is when we saw a weakening of the business in general. So we keep working to improve. And that's where I will leave my comments at this stage.

Okay. Perfect. And for the ERP, you said, I think, that last time you mentioned color on the call was kind of close to June for the second – the [ph] last (20:42) implementation in the U.S. You recently said some time later this year. So do you have more visibility about when you would like to introduce your [ph] last (20:54) implementation in the U.S.?

For the moment, what we plan on doing to make sure – you know the old expression, once burned, twice shy. We really had difficulties on the technical side, on the hardware side back in December. So what we're planning on doing is split the last wave in two smaller waves. And the first one of that would be under current planning, June 1. And the second one would be September 1.

Excellent. Excellent. So, does it mean that it will still – the ERP implementation will still put some pressure on your margin given you would have to keep two systems running during that time?

Unfortunately, some of the cost avoidance that we were expecting by having the ERP all done in April are not going to disappear as quickly.

Okay. Okay. Very good. And just in terms of – related to the formal review, I understand that it might be a long process, but any color on the duration that it could take?

No, unfortunately. What I will tell you is that we are working very diligently on this. And as soon as we have something relevant that we feel we would be helpful or under regulation, we'd have to disclose, we will, believe me, as soon as we can.

Okay. And maybe last question on the tax rate, what should we expect going forward in terms of tax rate?

Okay. We have to be very careful on this one because the tax rate of the first quarter is not representative of the annual tax rate. But anything between 17%, 19% tax rate for the year makes a lot of sense. You have to look at it on an annual basis.

Okay. So – okay. On the 17% to 19% for the full year?

Yes, sir.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much.

You're welcome, Benoit.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] So, our next question is from [ph] Otto Cheung (23:09). Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, [ph] Otto (23:15).

Hi. Just I guess a follow-up question. Maybe I'll ask the margin question a little differently. I mean for Q4, we had EBITDA margins of 2.9%, Q1 also improvement, but EBITDA margins of 4.1%. Both these quarters were impacted by, I guess, the ERP downtime. So, I guess indirectly, with Q2-Q3 not expected to be impacted by this, would it be reasonable to assume, I guess, an improvement in margins?

We're always working on that side of course, you're right. Obviously, [ph] Otto (23:50), the second quarter will not be affected by the slowness in the – of the system that we resolved in March. But as you can, I'm sure, appreciate, it still has an impact on the operating cost because there were some elements that were pushed back in there. So, that created some other backlogs that we're addressing right now.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. And, I guess, just moving on with my next question with respect to the strategic review. Like, I understand it's very early on in the process. But, I mean, can you give us an idea of what, I guess, the overall process would be? And also, on your prepared remarks, you said the strategic review will focus on the weakened part of the business which is the U.S. Parts business. Does that mean you're not considering options for just say the FinishMaster or the Beck/Arnley which you guys are performing well?

[ph] Otto (24:44), I will take you back to the press release which really said that we would consider all alternatives, okay? Now, I will also give a little bit of color in the sense that for us, strategic review is not code words for selling or disposing or whatever. It is for us a way to look at how can we do things differently and configure the business differently so that we improve short-term and long-term value for the shareholders, that's really what it is. So, in that aspect, it means that anything that makes sense is accretive of value.

I will tell you like day-in, day-out, we've done initiatives that in fact at Parts and FinishMaster, for example, we're doing cross-sales development. And that is certainly part of what we're going to be looking at, for example, can we do more and this and that, faster, slower, whatever. I mean, we're looking at all of the alternatives.

So, it is only normal that the main focus is where we are dissatisfied. But this being said, we're looking at absolutely everything. But again, this doesn't mean that it's [ph] gold (25:54) for the fact that we are selling all or part of the businesses.

I see. Okay. Yeah, my – incorrect choice of words, but – okay, understood. But also, just I guess to follow up on that, that doesn't exclude it from it either, right?

Yeah. Unfortunately, when I say that it does include everything, it means that nothing is excluded. Doesn't mean that the probability is there, so I would caution anybody to read anything in my statements here.

Okay.

But if I say that we consider everything, please read my lips. [indiscernible] (26:30) everything.

Okay. Great. Okay. That's all I had for now then. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yes. Just a follow-up on FinishMaster, obviously a strong performance. You mentioned this afternoon that you gained some market share with FinishMaster. Also, margins are very good. Just one, if you could provide an update on the outlook, the competitive dynamics in the paint industry and also where you are in terms of cross-selling opportunity and the organic sales.

I'll let Steve talk about the overall market and where we are. I will tell you that in terms of the cross-selling opportunities, we have some tests going on. And now that we have been able to list all of our parts in the estimating software that collision repair shops are using, we see some promising results. But we're still at fairly early stage in that portion of the business. As far as the overall market, Steve, you want to field that question?

There's still good opportunity in the market to grow. We've been successful in gaining market share through new accounts and we continue to achieve the goals that we set out for the group to get new business each quarter and each month. So, good market for us there to continue to grow.

Okay. And in terms of drop shipments, obviously, we know the story on the parts side, but how does it work on the paint side with FinishMaster? Is it a trend as well?

No. It's not. That has nothing to do with that. The logistic is different. The service requirements are different also.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from [indiscernible] (28:37). Please go ahead.

Hi. I just wanted to ask some more questions on the ERP. If you give examples of the functional benefits you expect from this new ERP system and just if it's similar technology that's being used by industry?

Listen, yes, there is other players who are using similar technology including FinishMaster by the way and we see a lot of benefit there. And I will tell you that it certainly is providing a lot more information data that we can use to basically grow the business and meet the customer needs better. It's also providing more accurate shipments, reducing shipping errors to our customers, and generally speaking, once we're all familiar including customers and vendors, is making dealing with Uni-Sélect easier at the end of the day. And that is, let's say, a 35,000-feet picture quite frankly there.

So, on a scale of, I guess, 0 to 100, where are you currently on the functionality on the completion side?

I'm not sure I really understand. I mean, we're not fully rolled out. And in terms of getting the benefits from all of that, we're only at the beginning there.

Okay. And if I could just also go back to, when we talked about Canada and the U.S. and the issues that you face in the U.S. in terms of you're saying the top line not translating into the bottom line, is that something that's structural in the U.S. in terms of the market, it's a different market versus Canada or is it a North American issue? I just wonder if you can give us color on what you think is the problem there.

No. I don't think there is that much color I can give, quite frankly. It's not a North American issue and I think it's some specific circumstances that we are meeting right now.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Sorry. It's me again. I was wondering about the CapEx, if you're still forecasting C$35 million this year.

It's a very good question. That's exactly what we budgeted, but we have decided to – because our goal is really to reduce the debt, we're going to do everything we can to be below the C$30 million threshold.

Okay. That's why you're running below C$35 million right now. Okay.

Exactly.

And could you maybe provide more details about the number of stores you ended with at the end of Q1? I think you mentioned in the past [ph] few (31:31) quarters the new store opened, store closed, stores that are acquired, and what we should expect the number – total number of store to be at the end of 2013?

I don't have the exact number of stores right now. We did close seven during the quarter. I don't believe that we opened any and I do believe that we acquired one. So, including FinishMaster, we'd be in the 440 some-odd numbers, but it's not going to be a major thing. Now between now and the end of the year, there's – I cannot tell you that because quite frankly, as we go to our optimization plan and all of that, we may make some decisions there.

Okay. Thanks for the color.

You're welcome.

Thank you. So there are no further questions registered at this time. I will now like to turn the meeting back over to you, Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much. Well, again, thank you very much for your interest. We appreciate your presence on this call and your questions and your interest in Uni-Sélect. I look forward to see you again through this call at the end of July to really talk about the second quarter results. I'll take [ph] the additionally (32:56) opportunity to thank all the shareholders who have been providing their support and we certainly look forward to create more value for all of them. Thank you and have a nice day. Bye-bye.

Thank you, gentlemen. Conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.