Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Secretary & Chief Legal Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Éric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President & Chief Operating Officer-Automotive Canada, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Macquarie Capital Markets Canada Ltd.
Frédéric Tremblay — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
A. Carolina Jolly — Analyst, G.research LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, please stand by. Your conference is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2015 Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Louis Juneau. Please go ahead, Mr. Juneau.

Thank you, Maude. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the Uni-Select's 2015 fourth quarter and year-end financial results conference call.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our latest Annual Report available on SEDAR, as well as in the press release issued last night.

Joining me here in Boucherville this afternoon are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; Eric Bussières, CFO; Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; as well as Steve Arndt, President and COO, FinishMaster.

I will first turn the call over to Henry who will discuss the key highlights of the last quarter and present some of Uni-Select's ongoing operational priorities. Eric will then discuss important financial elements for Q4. After their presentation, we will open up the call to questions. Henry?

Thank you, Louis, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us. I want to begin my remarks today by expressing how pleased I am with our performance in Q4. Most particularly, I'm delighted that both our automotive products and our automotive refinish groups continued to deliver healthy and dynamic organic growth reaching 2.6% on a consolidated basis. These results are in line with the steady growth performance we have recorded for the full year. The Q4 organic sales growth for Automotive Canada was up 2.3% in Q4, and up 1.8% for the full year.

In Canada, the Prairie provinces are impacted by the economic slowdown in the oil and gas business. If we excluded the Prairies, Automotive Canada experienced 5.7% organic growth in the fourth quarter, and 4.6% organic growth for the full year. At FinishMaster, the Q4 organic growth was 2.8% for the fourth quarter and 3.3% for the full year.

A number of factors contributed to the solid performance, namely the development of an increasingly customer-centric business strategy, the success of our ongoing customer recruitment efforts, our commitment to maintaining high-fill rates and offering superior customer service, as well as overall price increases.

The fourth quarter also marked completion of the first six months – full six-month period since the sale of assets of Uni-Sélect USA, and Beck/Arnley Worldparts on June 1, 2015.

Accordingly, we are gradually starting to see the emergence of Uni-Sélect's new profitability profile. While Q4 remains a smaller quarter due to the seasonality factor, our adjusted EBITDA margins reached 7.7%, up 1.2 points from 6.5% for the same quarter last year.

Net earnings grew a robust 22.7% to $13.9 million, while net earnings per share reached $0.65, up from $0.54 last year. The decline in Canadian dollar impacted earnings per share by $0.02 for the quarter compared to same period of 2014. As a complement to our organic growth focus, we have also completed several accretive acquisitions over the course of Q4 and shortly after the quarter end.

In the automotive parts segment we completed in early October, the acquisition of the remaining 50% equity interest in Malbaie Auto Parts and the assets of AFCAR Auto Parts, thereby strengthening our position and presence in the province of Quebec, noting these are smaller sized acquisitions. In November, we concluded the acquisition of the assets of T.N. Discovery Auto, expanding our reach in the automotive refinished segment in Ontario.

Finally in December, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% equity interest of Colwood Auto Supply from British Columbia with seven locations, and also the assets of B.H. McFarlane Automotive with one store located in Ontario. Subsequently, we announced this week that we have signed an agreement to acquire Jean Talon Auto Parts and Gagnon Auto Parts with seven locations in Montreal. In addition we acquired M.A.G. Auto Parts in Sherbrooke.

These transactions along with several others completed earlier in 2015, reaffirms our commitment towards the development of a strong corporate store network across Canada. After the closing of these recent transactions, we will have 48 locations. In the near future, all of our corporate stores will feature the recently relaunched Bumper to Bumper store brand in addition to the more than 100 jobber stores already using this brand.

To confirm again, in addition to our corporate store growth, we continue to be highly focused on growing our business with all of our independent member customers across Canada.

Now turning to the paint and related products segments. We announced the acquisition of the assets of Refinish Solutions expanding FinishMaster's footprint in Virginia and Washington D.C. Metropolitan areas with two locations. At the turn of the year, we also concluded and almost immediately completed in the early part of 2016, an agreement to purchase substantially all of the assets of ColorMaster Automotive Paint, a 15-location automotive refinish business with activities across four states. This acquisition both expands our geographical coverage and builds more density in these Midwest markets. These acquisitions bring our current FinishMaster store count to 187 stores.

Now, we are working very hard to ensure the efficient integration of our new acquisitions, we have established and standardized processes and integration teams in both businesses. These newly acquired entities enable us to strengthen our leadership positions from coast-to-coast both in Canada and in the U.S.

Before I conclude my remarks and discuss more ambitions and priorities for 2016, let me now turn the call over to Eric Bussières. Over to you, Eric.

Thank you, Henry. Good afternoon, everyone. Before anything, I would like to emphasize once again that as a result of the closing of the [ph] sale (07:17) transaction on June 1, 2015, the Q4 results presented yesterday and discussed on this call excludes the results of Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, both on a consolidated basis and within the automotive segment, but are compared against a corresponding fourth quarter of 2014, which included the results of these assets in full. The same holds true for the first five months of our 2015 results.

Another important factor to consider when analyzing our result is the further weakening of the Canadian dollar. As it has been the case for several quarters in a row, the declining dollar has continued to be an important factor when comparing our results year-over-year. With consolidated negative impact of 6.3% or CAD 66.5 million on our sales and the equivalent of CAD 0.10 in earnings per share in 2015. In the fourth quarter alone, the lower Canadian dollar accounted for 15.1% or the equivalent of CAD 17.5 million of revenue translation loss that impacted the automotive sector and a 13.9% decline in the full year.

A CAD 0.01 fluctuation of Canadian dollar result into approximately CAD 300,00 of EBITDA movement and a little over CAD 0.05 per share. I would also like to cover a few elements that impacted the fourth quarter. The healthcare claim that was registered in FinishMaster during the quarter was higher than our usual run rate by approximately US$1.1 million. This translates into approximately CAD 0.03 a share. The stock-based compensation in Q4 resulted into additional cost of approximately CAD 0.02 a share compared to Q3.

In spite of the series of acquisition we had completed recently and continue to complete for the future, we are still essentially net debt free. As of December 31, the corporation added net cash position of $1.1 million and a unused credit facility of $321 million. This provides Uni-Select with the financial resources to pursue its growth effort by actively seeking business acquisition opportunities both to expand our footprint and grow our market shares, as well as to protect and consolidate our existing [ph] jobber and (09:33) wholesalers business.

Entering 2016, we would like to reiterate our EBITDA guidance in the range of 7.5% to 8.5% of sales. And an expected $1.1 billion to $1.15 billion of revenue depending on the exchange rate.

Infact, turning to the guidance, we would like to bring your attention that following the disposition of our Uni-Select USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, we are left with an estimated negative synergy of $4.3 million per year. Attributable mainly to our ERP system, these expenses will be presented on our corporate and other segment. We obviously will work extremely hard over the foreseeable future to mitigate those cost as much as possible.

As a reminder, our business are seasonal and the second quarter and third quarter are traditionally are strongest in the year.

For 2016, our capital expenditure program is just at $20 million, of which approximately 50% is reserved for maintenance CapEx purposes.

Going forward, the cooperation is in good position to pursue its growth strategy and to see any sound business opportunity that arise. With an expanded M&A evaluation and an integration team as well as an operation team that has extensive industry experience, we are in a better than ever positioned to support the corporate growth targets and strategy.

This completes my financial review. Back to you, Henry.

Thank you very much, Eric. Before I turn to 2016, I wish to take a moment to congratulate and sincerely thank our 2,700 teammates including almost 300 new team members who have joined us through these acquisitions in recent months.

We are extremely proud of the progress we've made and of the successful transformation of Uni-Select this past year. As we now turn to 2016 and beyond, our focus remains the same. We will continue to deliver growth through our two-pronged approach, a healthy combination of organic and accretive acquisition [indiscernible] (11:36( in growth.

More specifically, we'll spare no effort to continue to strengthen our brand, improve the speed and efficiency of our distribution networks, and work harder than never before to offer each of our 6,000 collision repair center customers or 1,150 independent Canadian customers and over 3,900 installer customers access to the best service, the best products and the best team in the industry. In closing, I'm pleased to announce that our board of directors has approved earlier today another quarterly dividend of CAD 0.16, this decision reflects the board's and management's ongoing commitment and level of confidence in our future.

Thank you. And we're now ready to answer your questions. Operator, could you please open the call up to questions.

Certainly. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] We thank you for your patience.

Our first question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon, gentlemen.

Hey, Tony.

Hi. Henry, could you give us a bit of color in terms of was there any inflation rate pushing through in Canada and in the United States, and was there any challenge if that was the case?

Are you talking about inflation in terms of inflationary pressures from our suppliers in terms of products?

Yeah. And if you could – and if you were able to pass it too if that was the case?

Yeah. I think that's been very difficult for us Tony. We get – and we're in an industry where price increases happen on a sort of in the U.S., on a regular basis, and we have a long history of being able to pass those price increases through the customers and we certainly do our best to optimize those opportunities as well. I think in Canada we've seen the price inflation for the first time in 2015 in many, many years and I think we've seen a number of changes in the prices in Canada throughout the course of the year and we are able to pass those price increases through. So, I think that is part of the reality and we're likely to see a bit more of that in Canada today and I think we're going to see a little bit more of that in the U.S. as we go through 2016.

Okay. So, it's fair to say there wasn't any impact on your margins...?

No negative impacts. No.

Okay. And Henry, have you noticed any change in the consumer behavior in the first quarter where we're in, and was there any impact with weather positive or negative, we saw on the news the East Coast being dumped with a lot of snow, so can you comment briefly on that?

Well, I'll give you a high level note, and I'll pass it to Gary and Steve, but I think we've had a reasonable January. I think we're up in both business. So, I mean the weather – this winter hasn't been exactly extreme, so maybe you guys can comment, Gary in terms of Canada, any impact?

Compared to last year, we had – last year, we had a lot of store closes, we haven't had any this year. So, I would tell you overall it's been benign; no negative or no positive I think kind of business [ph] issues (15:07) overall.

Steve, in the FinishMaster?

<A – [0F9LJP-E Steve Arndt]: I would agree with Gary. I mean we've had snow days this year, maybe not as many as last year but really no impact so far this year.

You had more snow in the – directly in the U.S. East Coast earlier on.

On the East Coast, we sure did and we had the same thing last year, but it lasted a little bit longer. So really no impact on us this year so far.

Yep. That's fair.

Okay. Super. And then, question for Eric. You did quantify the impact related to incentives stock based, what about medical claims and could there be more to come, expenses?

Well, look, obviously, we can't predict those things, right? Those are claims that were higher than our usual experience by about a $1.1 million in the quarter. So, hard for me to tell you that, is that exceptionally high compared to our past experience, the answer is yes, right? Can it repeat itself? Who knows. But normally, we feel that the way we account and the way we accrue for those expenses is sufficient, it just happened that we had some surprises in Q4.

Okay. Wasn't anything to do with any legislations or changes in policies, it was just a one-time event?

Correct.

Yeah. And to be fair, this can happen in the future, it's just we have no control of whenever these hit, we've had a lot quarters that were great and every once in a while we get a surprise. And I think that does encourage us to look at our stop-loss policies and insurance to make sure we have the right coverage. And I think we're going to do that as a takeaway just to make sure we do that as prudent business, ongoing practice, there's nothing out of normal.

Okay. And one last question, looking at your investments in working capital, is that going to reverse that trend, Eric, or are we investing more to improve the fill rates going forward?

Look, I don't think it's going to [ph] degrade (17:03) to more at this point. I think the view is we obviously wanted to increase our fill rate, we also took advantage of certain special buys...

Okay.

...towards programs – towards the end of the quarter. And a part of this is also on an inventory front, we had some inventory coming from the acquisitions, obviously and they will work throughout – towards the system in the next couple of quarters. But I think that the current inventory level is an adequate level, and we'll try to optimize this further down the road.

Yeah. I would say that's fair and you guys have heard me talk about over the last year is that fill rates in our business is absolutely critical. So, we are making sure we have and we're stabilized in that situation, we have very strong fill rates in both businesses today. We have the right level of inventory. But at the end of the day, we've also been fairly prudent and being able to buy at a price increases whenever it's possible, and that obviously has a short-term impact on working capital, but has a very significant impact in our margin ability. So, we'll certainly take advantage of those on an opportunistic basis moving forward. But as Eric says, we're going to continue to optimize and look at our supplier base for terms and all those kind of things that you would normally do, that's normal course of business for us.

Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

Thank you. Our following question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon.

Hey, Sara.

Good afternoon.

One of the questions I'm getting from investors is, I guess a little bit surprise that the guidance was unchanged for 2016, given the number of acquisitions that have been made. I understand FX is probably partially to blame on the top line. But just wondered on the margin front, is there any kind of color you can give us in terms of what would cause you to be at the high end of 8.5%, and what would you cause you to be at the low end?

I mean, I'll let Eric answer the second, what we did, and if you remember, you going back six months ago, we were in the 7% to 8% range, in our EBITDA margin. So, what we have is a 7% to 8% range. We have increased it to 7.5% to 8.5% range, and we're very comfortable with that. And remember as we acquire companies, we don't get the benefits of all of the synergies at the EBITDA line, until we integrate those businesses, you have upfront integration costs that we have to absorb, those ones hit you in the front end. And we also have time, as we talked about, a minute ago to integrate the inventories. So you'll get some of those independent distributors that may have an inflated inventory position. They have inventory at [indiscernible] (19:35), and those [indiscernible] (19:37) need to turn through the system, before we can replace that inventory, replenish it with our lower cost inventory from [ph] Marcel (19:45). So, all those things take time. So, I think what we've been, quite frankly, prudent in doing the same, look, we see the guidance being more in the 7.5% to 8.5% range and we're clearly pushing for the higher end of that range. But in seasonality, we're sitting at 7.7% for Q4 in the slower quarter, and we expect that to pick up in Q2 or Q2 and Q3 in 2016.

And in terms of the sales, I think you heard Eric say, we had guidance of $1 billion and we're kind of raising that to that sort of $1.15 billion range and that is impacted, as you will note, by the exchange rate impact of the Canadian dollar.

Okay. That's fair.

Yeah. Look, I think Henry you covered it, obviously it had this – had those synergies kicks in, we will be – those acquisitions will become even more accretive. So, as Henry said, we obviously are focusing to try to increase our multiple – sorry, our EBITDA percentage over time, but as you can imagine, we need to work through those inventory levels that we're buying when we're in those acquisitions.

Okay. That's helpful. And you commented that there is $4.3 million negative synergies in ERP cost that had run through corporate, so what's a regular corporate run rate we can use for negative EBITDA going forward on a per quarter basis?

Yeah. So, Audrey, the annualized corporate run rate is approximately US$11.6 million is how I would respond to that question and that will encompass the dis-synergies that we talked about at $4.3 million.

Okay.

Yeah. And I want to make sure everybody knows. On the $1.3 million – we declared the $4.3 million when we closed the sale of the transaction. We knew that going in upfront, we've got an ERP platform here today that was sized for both businesses and we've reduced the costs in that ERP platform substantially, but we can't reduce it to the level in the scale of the Canadian business versus the combined business, you just can't do that. So, we do have some stranded cost there and I think I've talked to a number of folks straight up, talked about in an earlier call, but we want to phase into that, it is what it is, and as an executive team, we're going to work very hard to mitigate as much of those costs as possible, but they are today and they are kind of an annuity expense unless we can get rid of those.

Okay. And just to be clear, the $4.3 million all goes to corporate charges, and none of it's being allocated to Canada?

No, it's not related to the Canadian business. So, we're putting it to the corporate, because that is really a result and impact – a direct impact of the sale of the U.S. auto parts business.

I think Sara, the way you should think about it is the cost that was allocated in the [indiscernible] (22:32) business remains, those costs are still allocated the way they were.

Okay.

And the cost that can't allocate the gained business has been moved to the corporate segment.

Okay. That's helpful. Organic growth outlook, maybe, Steve, if you could comment on FinishMaster? We've seen beginning of 2015 had great organic growth for FinishMaster, it's kind of decelerated through the year, including into Q4, just maybe if you could explain what that – what's behind that and maybe what the outlook is for 2016?

Sara, the growth is still there and 2016 looks very optimistic, a lot of it is about timing of bringing that new accounts whether it's the MSO segment where it takes a little bit longer to integrate those into what we're doing versus the traditional independent. So, you'll see an ebb and flow as we go along with that based on the different segments of customers we'll bring along, but 2016 looks very encouraging for continued organic growth and that is our major focus that we have in FinishMaster for this year.

Okay. Would you wager to put in some kind of a target for organic growth?

No, I wouldn't at this time.

Okay.

So, I think to be fair, this is, as Steve as said, this is our actual focus in both businesses and we're able to deal with what the economy is handing out. We've already talked a lot about having sort of low mid singles that's always been the guidance we've talked about and that's certainly our target and we've seen that happened in Canada. We've seen that happened in FinishMaster over the course of the year. And I think we're just seeing a bit of a timing issue there. But Steve is highly focused on driving that number higher from sort of very low singles to mid singles that's kind of where the direction we're headed, that's what we're pushing on. So it's really hard to give you a number until we get little closer.

Okay. And then maybe on balance sheet, if you can comment a little bit about the opportunities you see in front of you for M&A in terms of corporate stores in Canada and in FinishMaster, I was just wondering if the expectation is for continued tuck-in acquisitions or do you feel confident that there might be some bigger deals to go after here?

Yeah. So, I mean, it always depends on what you call bigger deals and I know this is sometime frustrating for all of you and I think my comments here highlighted a couple small ones. So, I think the answer I'll give you is that we are continuously focused on larger even up to transformational type transactions. They don't come about that often, it's not as many targets as you think. However, we are continuously focusing on those. But in the interim, we're going to continue to have a sort of a steady diet of tuck-ins and we'll continue to do that, you saw that I mean, if we acquired Jean Talon or not acquired yet, but we certainly have an agreement to acquire Jean Talon, we announced this week. That's a nice example of a seven-store business very much in a comfort zone sweet spot for us. But there are larger transactions we'd like to work on, and we continue to pursue those opportunities.

Okay. And if those larger transactions don't materialize, and you're at point where you just feel like your balance sheet is under levered, and maybe you look at share repurchase or something for a ticket back to sort of normalized optimal capital distribution.

It's always a possibility, Sara, but I would tell you that with the number of opportunities and discussions we're having with different players in the market today. I doubt very much that we're going to reach – we would reorient our strategy towards the end that you are indicating. I think that we have a very healthy M&A pipeline right now with good opportunities, and we're working very hard on those as we speak today.

I'm more excited than ever quite frankly at the size of the pipeline and the target quality that we have in the pipeline. So, I'm not anywhere near there yet, that's a long way from where we are standing here today. So our job is to execute, and I think what you're seeing from us is 16 transactions over the last 12 months, that's a fairly significant jump in our acquisition approach. The team is there, and we'll continue to work on those targets and we're not even in this point considering looking at those type of other activities, if we are, we probably have some other issues. We've got lots of business opportunities in front of us.

Okay, that's great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

.

Thanks.

Thank you. The following question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. Just to come back on the organic growth for automotive, could you provide more color about the percentage of automotive revenues from the Prairies?

We felt that the Prairies were – had a rough year this year. And I think we were – and it really affected our numbers. So again, if you want to give me a second...

Please give him a second, again remember, I mentioned the actual growth excluding that are...

Yeah. Just looking at the percentage wise, not on the organic growth basis but is it about a third 20% of your revenues?

It's about 28% of the revenue of the Canadian segments.

Okay. Perfect. This is the information I was looking for. And maybe could you provide some comment on the expectation for 2016 given what's happening in the Prairies and what type of growth rate we might see for the Automotive business?

Well, it's really hard to predict what's going to happen in the Prairies. As you know, I think last year was a tough year. Is it going to go down any further or flatten out, it's really hard to say right now. But there's no doubt that we're trying to change our product mix to make sure that we meet the new market needs, the new reality there, so that we can take advantage of whatever opportunity there is in the Prairies. So, your guess is as good as mine on what's going on in the price of oil and the whole economy over there.

Putting it in context though, we're not – we're in the automotive business, so we're not selling machinery directly into the oil and gas segment, we're effected by the overall economy. So, I think the market itself is down for us 5% or 6%, which we think is a relatively good performance in the light of the environment in that market. So, we consider our market share to be as strong or stronger than what it was. So, if you then look at the second part of your question, which is the growth outlook in Canada, we're very optimistic in terms of the – all of the things we're doing in terms of the independent front, and all the things we're doing on the corporate store front. So, as we build out these corporate stores, we install our processes, give them offerings to a broader range of products. We continue to be optimistic in terms of the growth profile of the Canadian market. And as I said earlier, we had a very strong year in terms of growth of 4.6%, excluding Alberta in Canada.

Yeah, and when did you start to see some softness from the Prairies back in 2015?

Benoit, I think it started [indiscernible] (30:00) year, I think.

Yeah first quarter.

Yes.

Almost Q1, okay. Okay, perfect. And just looking at the FX movement last year you recorded some pretty nice margins on the automotive side, given you were able to buy back some inventory ahead of the price increase. So, I'm just wondering whether the movement in the FX, whether you see that kind of opportunities going through the year?

Yeah. There's no doubt that we will – I think we'll just continue to see some opportunities going forward. I don't think we took advantage of everything we had last year. From that standpoint, 2016 should be somewhat similar to 2015.

Okay, okay. Perfect. And just in terms of the stock-based comp, is there any sensitivity given your stock is down almost 20% from its 52-week high? Should we expect a slight benefit in the coming quarter?

It depends what you – I mean, it's a difficult question to answer, Benoit because it depends on the price of the share and what the market does. So, a stock price and the benefits are not the defined on a one-day trading. So..

Okay.

And you got to understand that the way the program works is it's a program over a three-year period. So, it's a third, a third, a third from a allocation perspective of [indiscernible] (31:27). So, it's not all or nothing so to speak.

Okay. Perfect. And any comment on the ramp up of the private label?

Well, we have private label in both businesses and I think we're going to maintain and continue to steadily grow that business. But we still see it in the same sort of rough percentage of the overall business as it is today. It may creep up slowly but that's not our kind of primary strategy.

In both cases, we're national brand houses both in the automotive segment and in the auto refinish segment. We're focused on the national brand, so we use those private brands to be very complementary and fill in the the market segments that are not occupied by those national players. So, that is our strategy but you'll see more of it but it's not going to take overtake.

Okay. Perfect. And last question, you provided some color about the guidance – the CapEx, I mean, for 2016, any color about free cash flow given the potential inventory movement, what we should be looking for in 2016?

I'll have to get back to you, Benoit, in that – in view of the question.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you very much for the time.

Thanks, Benoit.

Thank you. Our next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hey, Michael.

Just in terms of – just to circle back on the inflation question in Canada, are you able to give a sense as to how much prices have increased year-to-date in 2015?

Yeah, about plus 2%, 2.5% is our estimate, Michael.

Plus 2%, 2.5% and is it fair to say that you've held back to some degree in terms of the some of the pricing inflation at this point?

How do you mean held back?

Well, just given the move in the Canadian dollar, I would have thought maybe you would've had a little more price inflation in that?

No, but it's a blended. This is all of our product lines. So some are more, some are less. So it's – so that's our business...

Yeah. So, the mechanics to this Michael are not that the – that our parts go up in a direct correlation with the exchange rates. Our products go up based upon when the manufacturers decided to install a price increase in Canada. And obviously, with the – the pretty violent exchange rate change over the year, manufacturers are quite frankly and probably subsidizing the Canadian market based upon the level of price increases they can install. So, they know they have to go up, but they can't compensate 100% for the exchange factor. So, I think we see that sort of entering in at multiple small price increases over the course of the year as opposed to any one or two big violent ones.

Okay. Thanks. And then just on the FinishMaster organic growth, I mean when you look at the commodity moves that have happened for the inputs on paint. I mean what's the view there in terms of potentially getting price deflation occurring in that market?

There are – traditionally, there has not been a deflation in the market, and we – talking with manufacturers and looking forward, don't see that happening in 2016.

Okay. Can you – are you able to give for Canada, are you able to provide, we have two quarters of margin right now, are you able to give what the Canada full-year margin was?

No, we're not giving that out at this point. We're trying to make sure that you get this stuff accurate. What it was for Q3. And we kind of explained to everyone at that time that is one of our two biggest quarters, so that was a very strong performance. Now you've got a taste of Q4, and please be patient, it won't be that long before we hit Q3 and you get the full year.

Okay. And just that the – Eric you highlighted the – I think the $11.3 million on the corporate expense line, that would include the negative synergy the $4.3 million?

Yes. It includes the negative synergy of $4.3 million and the amount that I gave was $11.6 million.

$11.6 million, okay. And then, are you guys able, ColorMaster, I mean, this is a 15-location acquisition. Can you – are you able to give us a sense as to what we should build in there for a revenue contribution from that particular deal?

That's just something we just – we're not going to [indiscernible] (36:33). We get to a material transaction and material is very substantial for us given the size of our overall organization. So what we don't want to get into, Michael, is kind of going into those, I think you can figure out relative terms, 15-location, there is no average size location, because they're different in automotive, they're different in auto refinish, and they're even different within each of those businesses. But I think you can take from it is this is a very good transaction. We're very, very pleased with the market presence it gives us, but we're not, at this point, going to share individual transaction sizes. [indiscernible]

(37:06) maybe just to give a bit of color, if you listen to the call afterwards, but we had increased a little bit of revenue target or expectation for 2016, which is a reflection of the acquisitions that we made. So I think, we had signaled last in Q3 about CAD 1.1 billion and more in the range of CAD 1.15, billion obviously some of the opportunities are tied to the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar exchange rates.

Okay. But in terms of all the M&A that you've done, like, this quarter, you've broken out, you said, between FinishMaster and Canada parts, you have an CAD 11.2 million contribution from M&A on the top line, clearly that's going to step up in Q1 with the incremental M&A that you've done. Are you guys comfortable indicating how much run rate you've acquired at this point and time that we should be modeling in?

No. We haven't put that on the table yet. I think what Eric's trying to say is that, we are giving guidance of CAD 1.1 billion, we're now sort of sharing guidance up to CAD 1.15 billion. I think that throws a number on the table and we're probably conservative but we'll continue to sort of address that. It's hard for us to sit here and give you all of that, we'll be calculating every transaction we do, because some are smaller tuck-ins. So far, a number of other medium-sized ones. And yeah, I get it's a challenge for you guys but that's the kind of zone where we're in, at about CAD 1.15 billion at this point.

Okay. And just ColorMaster in particular, how much opportunity do you see with that transaction to leverage the MSO relationships that you have in those markets that you've acquired into?

It will definitely give us a geographic position with the MSOs, especially in the Saint Louis area where they are starting to grow. The number of locations puts us in a great position to continue our relationships with the MSOs.

Okay. And tax rate for 2016?

Bear with me for a second. So the tax rate, 34% and the net cash tax rate is about 14%.

14% cash. Okay. Perfect. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you. Following question is from Frederic Tremblay. Please go ahead.

Yeah, thanks. Just going back to the stock-based compensation. Have you guys – do you have any hedging in place for that or would you consider putting in place some hedging in the future?

Yeah, at the current point in time, we do not have any hedging in place for that. It's something that I intend to look at in the foreseeable future.

Okay. And then you mentioned rebranding to Bumper to Bumper in Canada, I was just wondering, if you could share some details on the timing and some of the benefits that you expect from that?

Well, I mean, that's something that we haven't publicly launched that, but Gary, why don't you tell everybody about it?

We've just launched with all of our customer base and obviously our first point of reference going [ph] to get (40:34) corporate stores that we'll be rebranding in the next several months. Obviously, our customers are not obliged to jump on, but we've had a lot of positive response to it. So we've got a target in our mind that for the end of this year, and the feedback we're getting, what we're looking for is obviously some incremental growth more [indiscernible] (40:57) and really help our customers grow their business throughout the network. So, we're really excited about it, very positive about it, and it's going to be a product, so it's going to take several years to completely deploy, but we got to start and this year will be the start of this project.

So, if you go back and look at it strategically, we don't – we've got a diversified brand strategy across the Canadian landscape today. We have Bumper to Bumper, which is very strong brand in the Prairies. This is – I'd venture, a household name in the Prairies. We don't have it at all anywhere else in Canada.

Auto Parts Plus is one we utilize in Canada, and that is sort of static across Canada. So, our view is very simple, and we needed to make sure we put a stake in the ground in terms of a full service brand, if you will. And Bumper to Bumper is that today already in the Prairies.

So, we have completely reimaged that brand, adopted it for the corporate stores and then rolled that program out and offered it to our – all our Canadian businesses as appropriate. So, it won't mean that we're going to convert all of our independent Auto Parts Plus in other parts of the country. If they don't want a full service brand, they can remain with an Auto Parts Plus menu-driven program. So, we really have a great offering for those who want a full service brand and those who want a menu-driven approach.

So, we have both of those and clearly all of our corporate stores are growing so, that and the refreshing of the entire brand image is really going to position us on a much better scale across Canada.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The following question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Yes. Henry, you mentioned previously that the M&A pipeline is pretty healthy. Can you give us a bit of comfort in terms of the market conditions, possibly multiple valuations, but how big and how small acquisitions are you looking at? Well, we know pretty much the lower end of the range but let's say how big could you go?

So, let me answer that in a couple of different ways, you almost made Steve fall off his chair there. Yeah, the M&A pipeline's robust and I'll tell you it's robust in both businesses. The FinishMaster business has got a very healthy pipeline and I think you've seen us execute on that. The Canadian business equally has the same level of pipeline.

We actually have a strategy in FinishMaster that I'm going to kind of dwell on because it's a very consistent strategy where we deployed it in 2015, we're going to deploy it in 2016. We're after markets and we're targeting markets to build density in some of the core urban markets. That strategy remains, the strategy to build out our geographical presence, that strategy remains. So, we have a very firm strategy, we've got a robust pipeline. And in terms of the multiples, I've shared with all of you, we've kind of given you an area you can drive a truck through, that's not going to change but we are paying within that range. We're not going above that range, we're very disciplined in our approach. For FinishMaster that typically is in the six to nine range and so far we haven't even been pressing the upper limits of that. So, we're very proud of our approach in that and we feel we have more opportunities in that arena.

In terms of the size, we'll continue to see things such as the one we had in Refinish Solutions. And on the East Coast where we have a couple of strategic locations where we've built density. We had a Painters Supply in Denver, great opportunity to build density in that market. ColorMaster did both for us in a larger scale, 15 locations. And I think our pipeline has a combination of both of those type of and size of transactions in it that we're pursuing.

In the Canadian space, I think we'll have a continued diet of tuck-ins. Some of those will be our existing numbers, others like M.A.G. will be outside of our membership group and we'll continue to work on larger transactions in the Canadian space, just like we have today. We're building it out – to build our corporate store group but I want everybody to remember it's not just about acquisitions at both fronts, our organic growth in Canada, we're focused on growing that independent customer network and we're having great success there too.

So, it's a combination of both those things. And I think what's happened over the course of the last 12 months is we've now got a strong reputation in terms of being able to acquire companies, a reputation to integrate companies and I must say a reputation to be easy to do business with in terms of that process. I mean Steve in particular, you've had a lot of good feedback in terms of – from the targets we've integrated in terms of our process.

So, I think we're very pleased with that approach. On the Canadian side, our multiples are slightly less, but there're probably the 6 to – 5.5 to 8.5 range probably. So, a pretty big range but again we're disciplined to stay within it.

And any change in the competitive landscape?

I think they're changing in both fronts. We still have the same competition in the U.S. marketplace, both for transactions and for day-to-day business. And I think equally so in Canada, Gary, I mean that's...

It's been very consistent, nothing has really changed materially anyways.

Okay. Well, thank you very much, gentlemen.

Thanks, Tony.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Carolina Jolly. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. It's Carolina from Gabelli.

Hey, Carolina.

Thanks for taking my questions. Hi. So, I just want to clarify that you haven't stated any range of dollar amount you're planning on spending for acquisitions in 2016?

That is correct. We have not given any guidance or views, we'll deal with those as they come [indiscernible] (46:55). As Henry said, we would like to do bigger transactions if possible, it's all a matter of timing, price and the willingness of the seller to sell. So, we – but we do have a healthy pipeline. So...

Perfect.

...in our opinion, we will be fairly active in the foreseeable future.

And I think to reiterate some guidance we've already provided, we're happy to extend ourselves on 2 times, 2.2 times EBITDA range in terms of our transactions and that's kind of normal course, we'd like to get some leverage back into the business and get the growth in the business accelerated. So, I think that's the normal course. We've also stated that we would extend that range to sort of three or north a little bit, should we get a larger, more transformational transaction. So, I think we have the capacity to do kind of both of those things and we're really focused on both fronts, the transformational ones, as well as the steady diet. So, we're not waiting, we're going in both fronts So, I think we're well positioned financially to do both of those.

Perfect. And as you expand your corporate store network and as you've gone through this process, have you seen any changes in the margin, in your margins because it's a fairly new initiative?

Yeah. It's too early to put that out there, we clearly expect these to be accretive in terms of EBITDA bases, we're seeing that today. We think we have more upside as we integrate them, but in the FinishMaster business we're more mature, in terms of the corporate store network, we're able to integrate on to a platform slightly quicker than we are in Canada. We've recently hired a new Vice President and General Manager of our Canadian store group. We brought him in from a well respected company in North America.

So, I think at the end of the day, Gary is laughing because [indiscernible] (48:45). So, we've got somebody who's capable to lead the charge there and we've got work to do. So, we're looking at a new platform for point of sale for jobber management. We're making sure we do it right and we don't fumble, we're establishing core processes and that's all underway, we've got a great team of people now doing it.

So, over time, you'll see the profile change as we have more corporate stores added to the Canadian business.

Perfect. And then just one last quick question, as you gain more traction on the MSO side. I know you've discussed it before, but can you briefly mention the difference in the margin there?

There is a reduction in margin that takes a slice with the MSO, but what comes along with that also is the shared service in the playbook that we create to make sure that with the manufacturer and with the customer, we are very streamlined and very efficient in what we do. So, with that reduction, we tried to make that up in the services that are provided. So, the answer to that what I was talking about is the gross margin, and as you would expect when you have bigger customers, MSOs you're going to have a lower gross margin, but his focus on making sure we have commensurate levels of service, reducing our cost to serve, that's driving the same – roughly the same op margin for those MSOs as it is for the sort of traditional customer base.

Perfect. That was very helpful. Thank you.

Thank you. We have no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back over to Mr. Buckley.

Great. Thank you very much. I'd like to thank everyone for having joined us this afternoon. We really appreciate all your support. We're always here to have questions and endeavoring to make sure we get out in the market and make sure we communicate our strategy on a frequent basis. I look forward to speaking to all of you again in April, and I appreciate the call and thank you and have enjoyable rest of your day. Thanks everyone.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation.