Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Me Louis Juneau — Chief Legal and Administrative Officer & Corporate Secretary, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Brent Windom — Director, President & Chief Executive Officer; President & Chief Operating Officer-Canadian Automotive Group, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Eric Bussières — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Daryl Young — Analyst, TD Securities, Inc.
Zachary Evershed — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc.
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Foreign Language] (00:00:06-00:00:40)

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Uni-Sélect, Inc. Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' presentation there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

I would like now to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Louis Juneau, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Julie. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for the Uni-Sélect fourth quarter conference call. Presenting this morning are Brent Windom, President and CEO of Uni-Sélect, and President and COO of the Canadian Automotive Group; and Eric Bussières, our Executive President and Chief Financial Officer. Following their comments, we'll open the call for questions.

Please note that all the documents referred to in today's conference call, including this webcast presentation, can be found on our website at uniselect.com in the Investors section. As noted on slide 2, we would like to remind you about the caution regarding forward-looking statements, which is applied to our presentation and comments.

All amounts are expressed in US dollars, except as otherwise specified. As noted on slide 3, as the Corporation applied for the first time on January 1, 2019, IFRS 16 leases using the modified retrospective transition approach, and did not restate comparative amounts for the year prior to its adoption as permitted. As a result, the 2019 condensed consolidated financial statements present significant variances when compared to 2018. Please refer to the adoption of IFRS 16 leases section in the MD&A for further details.

With that, let me turn the call over to Brent.

Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. Please turn to page 5 for the fourth quarter results. 2019 was a transformational year and we are pleased with the outcome of the Performance Improvement Plan realizing $31.9 million in annualized savings in 2019 and reaching our target of $50.6 million in annualized savings since beginning the plan. We will continue to realize these annualized impacts throughout 2020.

In December, we concluded the strategic review process and modified our capital structure with the issuance of CAD 125 million convertible senior subordinated unsecured debenture. The transformation steps undertaken over the past years have been necessary to stabilize the three business segments, enabling us and initiate a continuous culture of improvement in our operations and to capitalize on our future growth opportunities. We would like to thank each of our 6,000 plus team members for their commitment to resolve during the year. We would also like to thank them for their dedication to our customers and the continual improvement to our business.

Now let us turn to our results. For the year in constant currencies, sales increase 1.1% driven by the contribution from acquisitions and organic growth. Adjusted earnings before tax decreased to $40.7million impacted by market conditions at FinishMaster, network investments and higher borrowing costs. Now let's look at our most recent quarter.

Our fourth quarter is typically our softest core of the year. This year was no exception. Combined with the softer market conditions in all three business segments however, we are seeing encouraging signs as we continue to successfully implement the Performance Improvement Plan, which continue to yield tangible results in the parcel lines and especially at FinishMaster. Core profitability was up year-over-year for the first time in 2019.

Sales decreased 1.6% for the quarter compared to the same quarter last year, reflecting in solid market conditions as well as erosion of sales from the integration of company owned stores, which represented 80 basis points of the decline. These factors were partially offset by the contribution of the acquisitions that as previously mentioned. In the quarter we integrated 14 more stores, ending the year with 434 stores and generated an additional $8.2 million in annualized savings for the quarter.

On a year-over-year basis, the adjusted earnings before tax decreased to $5.4 million or a margin of 1.3%, mainly explained by the pricing pressures in the evolving customer mix at FM, negative organic growth which impacted the buying conditions and the absorption of fixed cost. Let me go into the PIP in more detail on page 6 please.

We are pleased to report at the end of the year we surpassed the objective in both terms and timing and savings. We delivered what we set out to do in 2019. The initiatives were – since the initiatives were launched, we generated for the three business units the annualized savings of $50.6 million. As indicated before, we expect these savings to be fully materialized in 2020. Also the actions taken and realized in 2019 by the three segments, approximately 50% of these savings found its way to our operating results for the year and about 20% benefited for the fourth quarter. As the current initiatives gradually come to a close, we will continue to strategically look for the optimization opportunities in our network to make continuous improvements as part of our culture moving forward.

Now let's turn to page 7 for FinishMaster. Sales for the fourth quarter decreased 2.5% impacted by the erosion of 1.3% from the integration of company owned stores and negative organic growth. While the erosion of sales was more significant during the fourth quarter, reflecting the full impact of the stores already integrated in the back half of the year. These results remained in line with our expectations. In the quarter, we continue to execute the integration of seven stores for a total of 29 stores in 2019 ending the year at 180 stores. Adjusted earnings before tax related margin reached $9.3 million and 4.7% of sales, respectively, up year-over-year for the first time in 2019. As you recall in last October, we appointed Rob Molenaar as the Interim President and COO, FinishMaster. We are currently in the recruitment process and making good progress.

The refinish markets continue to be soft as a result of lower collision claims, ongoing consolidation in the refinish market in the advancing technologies. Although, we expect the market to be slightly down in terms of volume in 2020, we will continue to drive our top line by executing our sales strategies in the various refinish channels at which we serve.

Please turn to page 8 for Canada. Sales for the fourth quarter were stable year-over-year as the contribution from acquisitions offset the negative organic growth in the further quarter. Organic growth was impacted by the timing – the different timing of the sales of PBE as indicated in the previous quarter, which is partially offset by the higher sales of our private brand products.

When you look at the full-year of 2019 in constant currencies, sales were up 4.8% driven by solid organic growth of 2.4% and the contribution of the business acquisitions. In the quarter, we continue to grow BUMPER TO BUMPER membership and loyalty. We also experienced another strong quarter of improvement of our company-owned stores, which bodes well for us in 2020. We continued with the integration of one store. We can – the completion of the integration of the PartsWatch point-of-sale system in all the legacy BUMPER TO BUMPER company-owned stores. We also continue with the successful integration of the Autochoice acquisition last year.

Our adjusted earnings before tax reached $3.6 million or 3% of sales, down from $6.5 million percent or 5.3% of sales last year. Realized savings from the PIP and the contribution from acquisitions were more than compensated by favorable one-time items of the fourth quarter of last year. However, when comparing to last year, adjusted earnings before tax were up 27.8% to $25.3 million and the related margin reached 4.9%, up 100 basis points.

Now turn to page 9 for The Parts Alliance, please. In constant currency, sales decreased 1.3% versus the same period last year due to the erosion of the sales of 80 basis points resulting from the integration of the company-owned stores and the negative organic growth. Organic growth continue to be impacted by the macroeconomic challenges in the UK, partially offset by the contribution of the recently opened greenfields. In the quarter, we opened two for a total of five for the year in 2020 since we acquired TPA.

To address the new market realities, we accelerated the PIP. We reshaped our regional trend – regional management teams, improved our productivity and our logistics to support our sales and network efficiencies. We also integrated six stores in the quarter for a total of 10 for the year ending the year at 179 stores. These initiatives will not only benefit TPA in the short term, but they will position the business positively for the – as the market gradually recovers.

On a year-over-year basis, the adjusted earnings before tax for the quarter was $300,000 or 0.3% of sales compared to $1.2 million or 1.2% of sales last year. The decrease is primarily due to the lower sales volume, recent investment in our supply chain of five greenfields, our new national distribution center, the 18 converted branches into regional hubs partially offset by the savings of the PIP which just started to materialize as expected in a more meaningful way. The UK left the EU on January 31st entering into a 11-month transition period, which could also create ongoing uncertainty. Having said this, it is important to understand that the long-term fundamentals of the UK auto parts market remain sound and will continue to execute our business strategy.

In fact, with the recent greenfields opened, we were able to further support the national account business in the quarter. We expect to see that to continue in 2020. Furthermore in 2020, we will integrate the last operating [indiscernible] (00:11:30) TPA's point-of-sale systems, which will lead to additional operating benefits and greater efficiencies.

I will now turn the call over to Eric to complete the financial review. Eric?

Thank you, Brett. Good morning, everyone. Please turn to page 13 for the consolidated [indiscernible] (00:11:46). For the fourth quarter, we reported a loss of $49.4 million or $1.17 per share versus a loss of $2.4 million or $0.006 per share last year, mainly due to special non-recurring costs in particular, an impairment loss on goodwill related to the UK totaling $45 million or $1.06 per share. Adjusted earnings for the quarter totaled $4.6 million or $0.11 per share versus $5.4 million or $0.13 per share last year.

The decrease in adjusted earnings was mainly attributable to lower adjusted earnings before tax and a different income tax rate. In addition, additional information is available on slide 21 including pro forma, adjusted EBITDA to help you with better understanding our results.

Now let me comment on our cash flow on page 14. The fourth quarter of 2019 cash flow provided by operating activities were $3.5 million versus $13.4 million last year. This variation was mainly attributable to a different timing of purchases and vendor financing transaction partly offset by reduced purchases of inventory and lower corporate tax installments.

In fact we continue to optimize our inventory throughout the three operating segments. We generated $24.1 million of free cash flow for the quarter compared to $7.8 million last year due to lower level of corporate tax installment and investment in capital expenditure. For the year, we generated $32.3 million in cash flow from operations, down from $95.6 million last year, mainly as a result of a one-time $55 million cash outflow due to change in payment terms for one of our largest supplier.

Excluding this factor we would have ended the year virtually in line with 2018. Given the situation we managed our balance sheet very prudently throughout the year. As shown on our consolidated cash flow statement, we reduced our net investment in merchant advances from $32.6 million in 2018 to $10.4 million in 2019, spending marginally less than our normal run rate. We also did not make any material acquisition and maintained our net investment in CapEx at $22.1 million, a similar level to 2018.

Dividends were also maintained at similar level of $11.9 million. In, fact when taking these individual item as a whole, we invested $55 million less in 2019 than in 2018 and generated $19.5 million with the sale of the ProColor banner program.

Today, the Board of Director declared a quarterly dividend of $0.0925 per share payable on April 21, 2020 to shareholders of record as of March 31 2012. This represents a dividend yield of 2.79% at yesterday's closing price.

Turning to page 15, as at December 31, 2019 our outstanding total net debt stood at $449 million including $101 million of lease obligation versus $530 million including $104 million of lease obligation three months earlier. And our funded debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio stood at 3.46 times versus 4.09 times last quarter. This reduced leverage is a direct result of the convertible debenture financing we completed in December. In addition to providing us with greater flexibility, this financial instrument immediately improve our leverage ratio and bank covenant as it is considered quasi equity for both bank covenant calculation and for our reported ratios.

This completes the financial review for the fourth quarter. I will now turn the call over to Brent to conclude.

Thank you, Eric. With the successful execution of the Performance Improvement Plans in each of the businesses, the strategic review now being concluded, the new financing in place, we are we are well positioned for the continue transformation of our operations and set the path forward for our future growth. In 2020, we will build on the work we've accomplished in 2019 by executing our sales initiative which will continue to position the business for strategic growth. Our new continuous improvement culture will continue to improve our profitability in all three business segments and maximize our shareholder value.

I would like to take a moment to discuss the Investor Relation activities. We're taking the opportunity to inform you that we're looking into an Investor Day in the coming months. We will provide more detail once we finalize the date.

In closing, we want to thank our shareholders, our customers, our team members, and our suppliers for their ongoing support. This concludes the presentation. We're now ready for your questions. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

First question comes from the line of Benoit Poirier with Desjardins. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Benoit Poirier.

Yeah. Could you talk a little bit about the expectation for 2020 in terms of organic growth given the soft finish we saw toward the end of 2019 and maybe what kind of color you can provide in terms of the organic growth expectation? Thank you.

So, Benoit, we're not giving guidance or outlook on 2020 at this time. We're pretty much focused on the continual improvement to the business and operating effort at this point. So at this point, we're not giving outlook.

Okay perfect. And when I look at the PIP obviously you are now closer to $51 million. What would be the incremental contribution in terms of cost saving that we should see in 2020 that would come from the PIP.

Benoit, if you look at our remarks during the call where we said is, the actions taken in 2019 and realized in 2019 which is basically at $31.9 million, about half of that was actually impacted our 2019 results. And of that amount, of the $31.9 million, 20% was actually [indiscernible] (00:17:48) Q4. So the fact that it tells you a bit about the run rate going forward with those strategic and PIP initiative that we've done.

Okay. So – okay, okay, perfect. And given the softer market environment, when I look at the organic growth, would it be fair to expect further cost reduction initiative on top of the $51 million that you've announced so far?

I would just simply say, Benoit we believe that there's plenty of opportunities for us to continue to optimize the three business segments. And our culture will really be about a continual improvement process, so that it's just not an event or – it will be part of our ongoing process.

Okay. Perfect. And Eric, when I look at your balance sheet, 3.5 times at the end of the year. If you exclude the convertible debt, could you talk a little bit about the free cash flow expectation for 2020 and the flexibility that your balance sheet provides right now to invest in the business organically or through M&A?

Yeah. So look, I would – first of all in 2020, there's nothing that we're aware at this point that would impact from a supplier perspective and supply chain perspective payment terms that we have, right. So the event that we experienced in 2019 with the reversal of some of the payables linked to payment terms, we don't expect that in 2020. So that's – what's – that's the first thing. If you look at our cash generation in 2018 and 2019, it's somewhat similar.

So I think it's a good guidance to think about this going forward and the other factor you have to keep in mind is we use about 55% of the CAD 125 million of convertible bond was used to apply against the debt. The balance is mainly that was applied against a revolver, but can be used obviously for M&A or growth opportunities, including continuous improvement initiatives that we have throughout the three businesses. So, I think we have the flexibility in 2020 to do what we are set up to do and also provide a decent return to the shareholders as it relates to the various activities that we're conducting.

Okay. Could you talk a little bit about your organic growth opportunities, your CapEx expectation for 2020 and maybe the potential capital and [ph] lobe gear (00:20:22) towards M&A that you foresee for 2020, Eric?

Well, all I can tell you is my expectation in terms of CapEx is very much in line with what we spent in 2018 and 2019. As it relates to organic growth, it's a big question right, Benoit, with what's going on worldwide. Who knows what will be the impact on the GDP growth of their different countries. But all things being equal, I would expect similar trends in 2020 than we've experienced in 2019. And we're well positioned in the UK for recovery and we've done a lot of work to make sure that whatever we did on the PIP would not impact the business negatively if there is a recovery. That's a good thing. [indiscernible] (00:21:06) business is healthy and performing and we – and there is nothing in the horizon that would tell me that this should be materially different. And FinishMaster as we've all known, we've done a lot of work at FinishMaster and we expect to rip some of the benefits of that in the coming quarters.

Okay. And lastly for me, could you maybe provide some color about the retention, the capabilities to retain employee independent jobber given you went through the strategic review. I'm just curious whether it has impacted some key [ph] metrics (00:21:39) or turnover ratios at Uni-Sélect given the ongoing – the strategic review that was completed?

This is excellent question, Benoit. I would tell you from a customer point of view, our customers have never been stronger. Our loyalty is at a high rate today higher than in the past. And I think we've continued to invest in the value proposition for them so that they can grow their business and we can be a better supplier to them. From an employee engagement point of view, certainly, as we went through the plans in each one of the three businesses, right, it's had an impact to our overall turnover rate. But our key employees are certainly secure and they're driving the change and leading to continual improvements inside the businesses. So, no fear from that.

Perfect. Thank you very much for the time.

Thank you.

Thank you, Benoit.

Your next question comes from the line of Daryl Young from TD Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Daryl.

My first question is on the competitive dynamics in the paint industry and specifically, I guess what percentage of your sales today are being made to MSOs? I know in the past you've defined MSOs anything three stores or more, but I guess what I'm trying to figure out is how much further margins can potentially erode as this consolidation theme continues at the MSO level and – yeah, what the kind of mix of your existing revenue is from MSO versus a true – like the true large MSOs would be who would be getting a lower fee versus the mom and pops?

Look, I think it depends somewhat on the activities that the MSO may or may not pursue in 2020, right. As you probably know, we are more exposed to national MSOs. We have a high concentration on that type of business at FinishMaster perhaps than at the market, as a whole. It's a question of alignment with our paints manufacturers. I would tell you that a lot of it is driven by what happens in the market at the collision repair level, which we can't predict if one will consolidate this market or that market. And when that happens, it certainly has some impact on our business model and our margins. And we have to adapt to that reality. As it relates to the speed of migration, look, finally speaking there is a trend. That trend has been around for in the last couple of years. We expect this trend to continue. And part of the restructuring that we conducted in 2019 was to allow us to be successful in that segment.

Okay. And then in terms of the increase in the competitive dynamic in the industry, can you maybe just give us a bit of color on where that's coming from?

Yeah, I think it's important to keep in mind that when you have a consolidating market, the way we're experiencing in the paint business, some of the independent distributors will focus on certain niche markets or down market in some cases. And that is certainly a competitive area where a lot of the distribution is focusing because of what's going on in the national and regional level. Right, so it's just a normal outcome of that competitive landscape. So in a way, that's where I would say the bigger pressure is, that we can tend to see on the smaller accounts. And then you have the fundamental trend of the consolidation happening. So we've got sort of two different factors going on in the industry.

Got it. Okay. And then in terms of in the UK, are you seeing increased competition there as the macro headwinds evolve or is it mostly just a lower top level demand from the macro headwinds?

I would say we really haven't – I think all of our competitors are going through the same things that we're going through. And certainly everything has been indicated as that we're not experiencing anything different than they are. So I think it's purely a top line that is in the entire country at this point. So...

Okay. And then, on M&A potential in the past, I know we've mentioned there's a lot of opportunities in the jobber network in Canada. Is that still a priority focus to continue working with the jobbers on succession planning?

Absolutely, yes. I mean, we're looking at it from a strategic point of view, not an opportunistic standpoint. So, I would tell you, clearly, it's part of the growth strategy for Canada moving forward.

And then, on the dividend, I mean the payout ratio is fairly low still at 40-ish percent. Any plans to rethink the dividend strategy at all?

Well, that will be something that the board me would be looking to the foreseeable future. But for now based on what we know, we're holding our dividend numbers as we've stated in the Q4.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Thanks, Daryl. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Zachary Evershed with National Bank Financial. Please go ahead.

Morning. Two quick ones...

Good morning.

...for me. Could you give us some examples of the optimization opportunities that you'll be pursuing in 2020 in each segment?

Well, I would say that we're continuing to look at further automation in all of our processes certainly whether it's back office or distribution in our branch network. We're also looking at workforce planning and how we optimize our workforces and also, we are looking at our route optimization so that we can be really not only environmentally friendly, but also benefit from our P&L point of view. So those are three major initiatives that we're looking at in all three businesses.

And freight rates have come off quite a bit from where they were last year. Is that having a significant impact on your bottom-line?

I would say I haven't seen that yet. So I think that it's not been materialized or a material impact to us at this point.

Okay. Thanks. And then, one last one. Are you expecting any incremental contribution from ramping industrial paint distribution in 2020?

Certainly, it is one of our growth sectors that we've mentioned that we're supporting and we're looking for that continue to grow in and we've made significant investments in our sales organization around that as well as operationally. So yes, we're looking for that to continue to grow at a rapid rate, hopefully.

Thank you very much for the color. That's it from me. I'll turn it over.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Lamers with BMO. Please go ahead.

Good morning Jonathan.

Good morning. I appreciate that you'll be holding an Investor Day in the coming months, but sorry, can you just review for us what areas the further strategic initiatives this year might cover? Will they be – maybe which divisions they'll be? So you mentioned the route optimization for FinishMaster. I missed the first part of your comment there.

No. I'm sorry. They are not – they're against all three business segments, so we're looking at route optimization in all of our branches, and we have branches in all three businesses today. We're certainly looking at automation in our all of our back office processes. We're looking at investing in to BI in all three of our businesses, to further drives efficiencies and be able to manage more effectively. So I mean, all three of the things that we have a list of network initiatives in all three businesses that will continue to evolve to service in a more efficient manner and a more effective manner for both our customers as well as our benefit to our profitability.

Thanks. I appreciate that you're not providing guidance. But I believe the paint suppliers generally are looking for volumes to be sort of flat to maybe down slightly at a market level and pricing to be up modestly in 2020. Do you have any thoughts as to the outlook for the overall market for 2020 and over the medium term?

Yeah. Look, as we stated in the speech, if you think about collision claims, we've seen some reduction in collision claims in the last few years and we don't expect that trend necessarily to change. Volume of paint as we've discussed in the past is fairly stable to reducing. So the reality is the organic growth so to speak is typically coming from price increase. And then the question becomes when is the timing of those price increases envisioned? There it's probably more in the second half as we know at this point. Having said that, the manufacturer could decide to push price increases sooner or not. But based on what we know at the paint level, it should be more in the second half of the year.

Thanks. And on the competition, I believe this is the second quarter where that's been called out. Was there a step change in competitive dynamics at some point last year that, that will be lapped sort of by the second half of this year?

No. I wouldn't say there's been an event or I think it's what we're seeing in the market. And as I was explaining earlier on the fact that we've got some more localized distributors that are fighting for a market share in a local market that is getting smaller and smaller, right, and that's where we've seen in certain markets. Because those national accounts or regional accounts have been consolidating. And that's what we're referring to in terms of pricing pressure in that tier of traditional smaller accounts.

Thanks. And if I could just ask about the board changes, how many board meetings have there been since January 1 and [indiscernible] (00:32:20) provided any indication of changes they would like to see?

So I would say this is our first board meeting since the 1st of the year. And [indiscernible] (00:32:33) we're excited to have them to be part of the board and certainly we have nine board members in there – they have their position and all of them speak their mind. So I'm not worried about two, I have nine. So – but no, not at this point. It's all good.

Okay. Thanks for your comments.

There are no further question at this time. I will turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.

Thank you very much. We look forward to seeing you and talking to you in the very near future and certainly as we indicated as soon as we get to finalized date for the Investor Day. Eric and I will be sharing that with you. Thank you for your support.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.