Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Éric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and Chief Operating Officer, Automotive Canada
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)
Elizabeth Johnston — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2016 Third Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would like to turn the meeting over to [ph] Ms. Ellen Barry (00:08). Please go ahead, [ph] Ms. Barry (00:09).

Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Presenting this morning are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; and Éric Bussières, CFO. Following their comments, we will open the call for questions. Joining us today for your questions are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster, U.S.A.; and Gary O'Connor, President and COO of Automotive Canada.

Please note that all documents referred to in today's conference call including this webcast presentation can be found on our website, uniselect.com on the first page.

As noted on slide 2, I would like to remind you that a caution regarding forward-looking statements apply to our presentation and comments. I would also like to underline that year-to-date 2016 results discussed on this call are compared to last year's adjusted results, which includes five months of operations of Uni-Sélect USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, sold on June 1, 2015. However, Q3 2016 results are directly comparable to the same period last year.

With that, let me turn the presentation over to Henry.

Thanks, [ph] Ellen (01:16). Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I'd like to invite you to look at slide 3 at the document posted on our website for this call. In the third quarter of 2016, Uni-Sélect delivered very good results. Total sales reached $319 million, up 15% from last year, with FinishMaster up 25% and Canadian Automotive Group up 2%. EBITDA was up 19% to $31 million while EBITDA margin rose to 9.7%. Net earnings increased to $17 million. And earnings per share stood at $0.41, up 11% on a year-over-year basis.

In the quarter, we announced a renewal of our normal course issuer bid to repurchase up to 2 million shares. We will also pay a quarterly dividend of CAD 0.085 per share to our shareholders.

Our current initiatives, please turn now to slide 4. We're making very good progress at FinishMaster USA on a number of fronts, with sales growth of 25%. We have acquired some great businesses and have been highly focused on successfully integrating those teams and businesses. To-date, all of those acquisitions have now been integrated onto our common operating system and branded FinishMaster. Although overall organic growth was below our expectations, it was a result of our product line changeover of one paint manufacturer. Excluding this impact, we experienced 3.5% organic growth. We continue to be focused on both organic and acquisitive growth. We have a strong acquisition pipeline to build out our geographic coverage and build density in key markets.

Sales in Canada were up, close to 2%. We experienced further economic headwinds in Q3. As we know, the Canadian Prairies have experienced an economic slowdown over the past couple of years as it relates to the decline in the oil and gas segment. This quarter, we experienced some slowdown with some customers in other regions who have seen declines with their end market customers due to local economies. This has impacted our organic results for the quarter. We have made terrific progress, however, building out our foundation for profitable growth.

In the quarter, we launched the FinishMaster brand in Canada and converted the first store to the new brand. The Bumper to Bumper automotive store brand conversion has been progressing very well with both our independent customers, as well as our corporate stores. A key initiative for us has been to build a complementary corporate store network in Canada.

We are making very good progress on multiple fronts as we build the foundation for integration and growth. We had announced earlier our selection of the PartsWatch point of sale or JMS, jobber management system, which bolts on to our SAP-based platform. We are pleased to announce that after the end of the quarter, the first store system implementation was completed successfully. This, combined with our standardized processes, store signage, and merchandizing initiatives, are building that platform for acquisition synergy capture and future network growth. Our corporate stores produced positive organic growth both for the quarter and year-to-date. As we look forward, our acquisition pipeline for both Automotive and FinishMaster Canada is very strong.

Before I conclude my remarks and discuss our priorities and focus going forward, let me turn the call over to Éric Bussières.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. And I'll invite you to turn to slide 5. Consolidated sales for the third quarter reached $319 million, a 15% increase again in the third quarter of 2015. This increase is mainly driven from the recent business acquisition and was somewhat impacted by the decrease of 1.3% of our organic sales. As mentioned by Henry, this is certainly below our expectation and partly attributable to the soft economic condition in Canada and the product line changeover with one big manufacturer in FinishMaster USA business. Sales from FinishMaster USA reached $202 million, up 25% due to acquisition, net customer recruitment, and existing customer growth. The Canadian Automotive segment rose to $116 million, an increase of 2% mainly from the various business acquisitions.

Turning to slide 6, we are pleased by our EBITDA of $31 million during the quarter compared to $26 million last year, an increase of over 18%. This improvement emanates from our accretive business acquisition, active management of our costs, and our ongoing focus of maintaining and improving our business condition. This is partly offset by the negative synergies following the sales of the net assets and our ongoing investments in the corporate stores. Our EBITDA margin reached 9.7% for the quarter, an improvement of 30 basis points against last year. On a year-to-date basis, our adjusted EBITDA stood at 9.1%, a 210 basis point margin improvement over last year. Adjusted EBITDA amounted to $82 million or a 7% increase for the same period last year.

Please turn now to slide 7. Earnings for the third quarter was $17 million or $0.41 a share compared to $0.37 a share for the same period last year on an 11% increase. The blended tax rate for Q3 was 32% compared to 31% in the previous quarter. The increase is due to the profitability from FinishMaster USA, representing a higher proportion on the overall free tax income compared to Q2. We are still projecting a net cash tax rate of approximately 14% for the year.

Moving to slide 8. The third quarter sales were up 15% compared to the same period of last year, thanks in large part to the acquisition, which was probably offset by negative organic growth. Growth margin improved by 230 basis point. Sales and gross margin growth more than outweighed the increase of operating cost related to our corporate store additions.

For the first nine months of 2016, total sales were up 17% compared to same period last year. EBITDA margin was enhanced by accretive business acquisition, improvements in our buying condition, and lower stock-based compensation expense. From a segment perspective, FinishMaster was the biggest contributor in the quarter with an excellent performance of 13% EBITDA despite a lower organic growth than anticipated.

For the first nine months of 2016, sales rose by 23%, while EBITDA increased by 33%, which implies good cost controls and the accretive nature of the business acquisition, resulting in an EBITDA margin of 12.5%. As it relates to the Canadian Automotive product segment, the business generated an EBITDA margin of 6.5%. Organic growth was under expectation due to lower volume from existing customers in relation to the softer economic conditions, delivery delays on some products, and reduced benefits from price increases in 2016 compared to the prior period last year.

Please turn now to slide 9. For the third quarter, cash flow from operating activities totaled $52 million, a $35 million improvement compared to the third quarter last year. This improvement resulted from the increased [ph] disposition (08:01) of our vendor financing program, net income tax refund, and improved operating income. Year-to-date, our cash flow from operating activities stand at $82 million compared to $37 million for the same period last year.

Please turn now to slide 10. As of September 30, outstanding total net debt stood at $133 million from $166 million at the end of last quarter, a reduction of $33 million for a leverage ratio of total net debt to EBITDA of 1.31 times. [ph] Excess liquidity (08:31) is robust with $260 million in available credit facility. At the beginning of 2016, we mentioned that we had annual negative synergies of approximately $4.2 million following the disposition of Uni-Sélect USA and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, mainly attributable to our IT system and related contractual agreements.

I am pleased to report that during 2016, we reduced negative synergies by over $700,000, thanks to the cost avoidance. In addition, following our recent agreements with various IT providers and the internalization of our IT servers, we expect to generate an additional savings ranging from $1.5 million to $2 million per year starting in the second half of 2017.

To summarize the quarter, I invite you turn to slide 11. Uni-Sélect had a good third quarter driven by accretive business acquisition, strong sales and improve EBITDA margin. EBITDA margin reached 9.7%, a 30 basis point improvement from last year comparable EBITDA. Net earnings rose to $17.3 million or $0.41 per share. This represent an 11% increase from the same period last year. Quarterly dividend payment of CAD 0.085 per share and the renewal in August of our NCIB program.

We are in a strong financial position to actively seek [indiscernible] (09:49) growth opportunity. Our pipeline of opportunities is healthy and in various stages. We are confident that some of those opportunities will materialize in the coming quarters.

To conclude, we are updating the guidance for 2016 as follows. An average exchange rate of $0.70 for the full year and following the lower organic growth than anticipated, we are [ph] revisiting (10:10) marginally ourselves to a range of $1.19 billion to $1.21 billion. We are increasing our EBITDA margin guidance for 2016 to a range of 8.5% to 9.25%. Our CapEx outlook for 2016 is modified from $20 million to slightly under $19 million. This $1 million reduction is truly timing related and will [ph] roll through (10:30) in 2017. Please note that starting 2017, we will no longer provide guidance.

This completes my financial review. Back to you, Henry.

Great. Thanks, Éric. So, our game plan has not changed. At FinishMaster, we continue to focus on profitable growth through the combination of organic and acquisitive growth. This means acquiring and successfully integrating businesses to extend our geographic coverage as well as building density in key markets.

In Automotive Canada, we see some economic headwinds. However, we continue to be focused on growing our business with both independent customers and corporate stores. We are making great progress building our platform for acquisitions, integration and growth. We continue to focus on both organic and acquisitive growth to build our Bumper to Bumper and FinishMaster Canada brands. Overall, total 2016 sales growth is expected to range between 13% and 15%.

On that, we would like to open the call for questions. Over to you, Donna.

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] And the first question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Tony.

Good morning. Henry, do believe that Uni-Sélect could achieve positive organic growth in Q4 in the automotive segment? Is the big challenge at Western Canada still? And how much has weather played, if any?

Yeah. I'm not going to say it's weather. We're not big on making excuses. I just think we've got some slowdown with some customers and it's really across different regions in Canada. So, what we've seen over the last couple of years is the Prairies have been the sort of stumbling block, I think that's still there. I mean, we're hoping that abates a little bit. It doesn't seem to be getting worse, but it doesn't seem to be getting any better. But there has been some pockets across Canada where we are seeing some local economies that have been impacted and some of our customers have seen some slowness.

Having said that, we've got other customers that are up double-digit. So, it's not something that we can say, the rest of the Canadian economy is slowing. We just see pockets of weakness. So, we don't quite frankly see that the fourth quarter is going to be sort of switching to a very positive trend, we see probably a little bit more of the same, but we're pushing hard for our market share growth, to continue to sort of absorb that sort of base economic headwind, if you will.

Okay. And then do you expect that there is likely pent-up demand that could support organic growth in 2017 deferrals, customer deferrals?

Yeah. I don't see that. When you think about the automotive side of the business, people get their car repaired, they get it when they need it. They can't defer it to next year. There may be some that are discretional in nature, if you will, and maybe some of that, so we don't peg our hopes on that stuff. We see the economy being sort of glad, if you will, with pockets of weakness, but our job is not – we can't do anything with that part, so we're really focused on how do we accelerate growth within our business. And I think, as you heard, we're seeing some positive signs on the corporate stores where positive growth on that front, yet we need to deal with some of those pockets of weakness in other areas. So, we're still pretty optimistic for 2017. We're heads-up and we're looking to grow our business.

And one more question. You mentioned, Henry, the product line changeover, I think consolidated products offerings to one manufacturer. You did state that there was an impact, about 3.5% on growth. Is that mainly U.S.? And if there was any impact in Canada, could you quantify it? And what was the strategic rationale behind it and could we see some impact over the next few quarters? Thanks.

Yeah. I think what we said is the underlying organic growth was 3.5%, excluding the product line changeover. I'll let Steve comment on the product line changeover.

Hey, Tony. This was a product line changeover only of one paint manufacturer. We continue to have strong relationships with Axalta and PPG, and we have a growing relationship with AkzoNobel in selected U.S. markets and Canada. And really believe that the client changeover fits very well with our long-term strategy at FinishMaster USA.

Okay. And would there have been some impact in Canada or none?

No. We have a relationship in Canada with various paint manufacturers, in particular PPG, a very strong player, AkzoNobel, a very strong player. So, there is no impact at all in the Canadian marketplace.

Okay. Well, thank you very much on that.

Thanks, Tony.

Thank you. The next question is from Stella (sic) [Sara] (15:32) O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Stella or Sara.

Good morning, Sara.

Yeah, we'll go with Stella today. Okay. Just going back to the Canadian organic retraction, just wondered how confident are you that this is an economic situation and not jobbers going elsewhere for parts, just wondering if you can kind of quantify that? Do you have a view on what's happening market share wise?

So, [indiscernible] (16:00) he knows our jobbers better than anybody for a very long time. And also, I mean, obviously, we're always keeping tabs on our customers and what they're buying and talking to our manufacturers and looking at one of our competitors, and we really believe that it's really economic. We don't believe we've lost market share. Actually, some manufacturers told me we've got some market share gains in some markets, so to me it's really the overall economy in the market that has been slowing down in our business right now. And, as I said, as Henry mentioned also, some of our customers are doing very, very well and others in certain markets are struggling [ph] along (16:34).

Okay. And maybe just with the decremental margin impact in Canada, how much of that would be volume related versus integration cost or other impacts that might be kind of one-offish in terms of investment in the new corporate stores, that kind of thing?

Yeah. It's Eric, Sara. I guess we have included in our financial statement some cost related to the acquisitions, but on top of it, there are integration costs that we are experiencing in both sides of the businesses. The total amount for Uni-Sélect this quarter was north of $600,000 in terms of what I would call integration costs. As it relates to the Canadian business, it's really more a volume mix situation that we had and a bit of a product mix situation that had an impact on the margin.

So, when you say volume mix and product mix, I mean, is it more import parts that are being sold at lower dollar value and lower margin, can you just give us a bit more clarity on that?

Product mix is more a matter of high margin products versus lower margin products and it's just a mix and that it is what it is. We tried to sell more of a lower end margin product this quarter as opposed to Q3 last quarter, and that certainly has an impact. And the other element is the mix of revenue between our warehouse activities, our direct shipments, and our store activity.

Okay.

Yeah. Just on the integration costs. To be very clear, in the U.S., as I stated, we have the opportunity there because we've got a very stable platform and we've got a system there where we can buy a company and integrate it onto that platform. And as you've heard, we've done a number of acquisitions over the last 18 months and they've now been integrated, and catching us early all of the synergies out there in terms of consolidation synergies but all of the initial synergies, things like back office, putting them on our platform, et cetera, and rebranding, that's all done.

In Canada, we had to build that foundation, and I couldn't be happier in terms of the progress we've made getting that foundation. It's not cost us that much money, but it's an upfront investment to put in the PartsWatch system. They make sure we have the platform to be able to integrate those businesses. So, we've got, in Canada, some stranded synergies, if you will, out there for the acquisitions we've made until we can bring all of those companies on that platform. And that platform, as I said, we've got that first PartsWatch implementation up just after the end of the quarter. And we couldn't be happier with the way that stood up, and we're going to continue to roll that out in a measured way over the coming weeks, months and quarters.

But the reality is we're very pleased because we operate this business with a very long-term view and that we're doing this work now, we'll capture the Canadian synergies as we are able to integrate them, but we're very pleased with the progress.

Okay. I guess just in terms of timeline though to capture those synergies going forward. I mean, how in the negative volume environment can we see EBITDA margin return to its last year levels anytime soon, or do we have to sort of see this pressure for the next few quarters as you're making these investments?

I think it's going to really, quite frankly, depend on a few factors. One is the economic situation. So, I mean, as we continue to press the growth strategies to drive organic growth, that will contribute it. We're also making sure that we're also very conscious in terms of our costs. So, like you've heard from Eric, we're very disciplined in terms of our approach to costs. So, we make sure we manage those in both businesses on an ongoing basis. And I think, obviously, the backlog, if you will, of some of the stores we bought to integrate is going to take us kind of 12 to 18 months to get through, and we'll make a call in terms of ways to accelerate that integration where it makes sense.

But we continue to have a pipeline in both businesses in Canada included that will add more acquisitions onto the table over the coming months and quarters. So, with that, you're always going to have some bit of a backlog to integrate until we can catch up. And that will catch up. I hope we don't catch up for a while because I want to make sure we get more stores into the group and more acquisitions in, and we'll ramp up that integration process as we go along. So, I think we'll have a backlog for the 12 to 18 months. That doesn't mean we're having [ph] massive strands of (20:49) synergies out there for years, but I think we're playing catch-up over the next 12 to 18 months.

Okay. Fair enough. And just one last one on FinishMaster. Huge margin improvement there, just wondering how much of that is insurance claim related and is it likely to stabilize back to the levels we've seen historically or is this a new level for FinishMaster just based on volume growth and integration of synergies?

Well, quite frankly, Sara, it's a mixed. I mean, clearly the revenue increased in FinishMaster. Our ongoing negotiations to improve buying conditions in all aspect of the two businesses are elements that contributed. And, yeah, claims were lower than what we have experienced and so far, as you may recall, we also had additional claims last year in Q4, so I'd like to tell you that it's perfectly predictable, but that's not the nature of the business, so it's a question of the margin enhancement I just spoke about for FinishMaster. And as we stated also, we are very conscientious on how we spend our dollars, and that is true for both side of the business, and I think the FinishMaster Team did a stellar job in Q3.

Okay. I'll leave it there. Thank you.

Thanks, Sara, or Stella.

Thank you. Your next question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you very much and good morning.

Good morning, Benoit.

Good morning.

Just to come back on the automotive side, I mean when we look at one of your biggest peers, they recently reported their results, they seem to post kind of a low single-digit growth in Canada as opposed to a decline on your side. So, just wanted to try to get more color. You already talked a little bit about some pockets of weakness in different region, but how would you compare your results versus your peers, is it kind of a different mix in terms of geographies or is it kind of [indiscernible] (22:52)?

Yes, Benoit, if I may, what our competitor has signaled is low single-digit growth, but he hasn't clarified if this was organic or partly attributable to acquisitions, as I recall, and I stand to be corrected if I'm wrong, but I couldn't gather if this was a mix or if this was true organic. And they made a fairly large acquisition in the Canadian market not too long ago, so I suspect that this is a combined number as opposed to organic true gain.

That's certainly what the transcript say, and we looked at them obviously. So, they're a great competitor of ours, and I respect them. So, everything we hear in the market – and Gary, maybe you can comment on that, everything we hear in the market is that we're not losing share at all. In fact, we're actually gaining share in a number of markets.

Well, as I mentioned earlier, Benoit, when we're talking to different players in the market, I mean, nobody is jumping for joy. I think everybody is feeling a bit what we're feeling, and it really is [ph] body (23:51) all over the place, I think for everybody, so we don't feel we're losing market share. It's just the general economic conditions right now.

Okay. And how would you compare the growth of your independent jobber versus your corporate store on the automotive side?

We've seen that our corporate stores have got some positive organic growth in the third quarter, so that was very encouraging, obviously. And again, I mean, we're starting on a journey, but it's very positive right now, and we're encouraged by what's happening.

Okay.

Yeah, yeah. Just to be fair to independents, we've got some independents that are really doing well.

Yeah.

So, we've got some independents that are up, we love them. And we support the heck out of [ph] everbody when we saw (24:29) some tougher markets. When you have as many independent customers as we have across the network, you're going to have some markets that are softer, so we've got some that are soft and we've got some that are rock and rolling. So, we're very pleased with them, and we're pretty excited about having positive organic growth and run our stores.

Okay. And do you have a feeling, Henry, that the independent jobbers that do well are the one that have multiple location as opposed to a single location?

There's really no patterns, to be honest.

No pattern, okay. Okay, okay. That's pretty good. And just related to stock-based compensation, what is the impact on a year-over-year basis on the cost side?

Benoit, I'll have to get back you on that one, I don't have that exact figure in front of me. I'll be happy to take that call or that element after the call.

Okay. And just on the paint side, once you exclude the impact of the product offering, it changed a little bit, so should we expect the 3.5% be a kind of a sustainable number in Q4, is it only a one-quarter impact?

The product line changeover is something we're working through. So, we'll work through that, through the course of the year anyway. So, I think it doesn't happen in sort of one discrete month. So, it will be the balance of the year. And yeah, certainly, we've provided that guidance before as we saw our organic sales growth in that 3% to 4% range. I don't think we're veering off that at all. In fact, we'd love to see it higher. So, at the end of the day, that's kind of what we expect for the balance, and the product line changeover will impact us for the balance of the year.

Okay. I see, but 2017 we should not see a big impact on that product change?

You'll see the comparables, right? So, it depends on where we end up. So, the comparables will be impacted in 2017, but we haven't settled through it yet. So, we don't know where that's based quite precise, but we're pretty happy with the way it's going. So, at the end of the day, we're going to measure both, what we're doing with and how we're doing excluding that.

Okay. Perfect. And just on the paint side, your strategy of implementing FinishMaster in Canada, building new location over time, it seems that there's a nice revenue opportunities. Could you quantify a little bit what would be the CapEx associated to that? What is kind of the timeframe and the revenue opportunities over time?

I think, first of all, we're trying to do this through select acquisitions. And that's what we've demonstrated over the last number of months. And, as we say, we have four locations today. Post quarter, we acquired Guelph Paint and Bumper, so that's our fourth location, so that's an example of an acquisition we will integrate. So, I think in the capital that it takes is a standard integration capital that would it take to acquire a corporate Auto Parts store or a FinishMaster store. So, I think, we have lots of opportunity to grow that footprint across Canada. And I think the primary driver will still be acquisitions, but we're not going to out rule out greenfields. So, if we get into some markets where we think it makes sense to add a greenfield store, and I would say this is both for FinishMaster USA and for FinishMaster Canada, we're more than open to greenfield in these events. So, we'll look at that in terms of the acquisition capital related and that will vary depending on the size and scale of the organizations we acquire.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks. Thank you very much for the time.

Thanks, Benoit.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you. The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Hey, Leon.

I just wanted to follow up on the product line changeover, can you just give us a bit of color as to what that entails exactly and what led to that, was it a pricing reason, was it just for competitive reasons and kind of what that entails going forward?

Yeah. We're not going to sort of get into any details on that, it obviously has lots to do with individual suppliers. I think Steve said it very, very well. We've got an amazing relationship with Axalta, with PPG and a growing one with Akzo, and we're very, very pleased with how that aligns with our long-term strategy. So, again, we're running this business on the longer run. We're not running it through chasing quarters, quite frankly. So, we're very pleased with where we're going with this strategy, and I think that says it all, quite frankly.

Yeah. I guess my question is like why does the product line changeover make you more aligned in the long-term, was it because there was – like was there a supply issue, was it a branding thing, was it a pricing thing? I'm just trying to understand why you would make that change for the long-term.

Again, that's what the long-term strategy of those individual paint manufacturers, ourselves. Our strategies dovetail together, and I'm not going to get into any more detail, but we just again couldn't be happier. We've got a great relationship with the three we've mentioned there. Our strategies long-term are aligned with theirs. We've got growth plans that work together to build our markets, whether they be the independent traditional collision repair center or whether they be an MSO. So, at some point, we all need to align with the key partners that we believe are going to be the right partners for the long run, and that's kind of where we are today. And, again, we're happy with the situation.

Okay. Well, thanks for that. On the Canadian side, I mean , you mentioned in the release that there was some delivery delays on some products, I mean, what kind of happened there and has that been addressed now?

Yeah. We have a few suppliers who've been struggling with their product offering and their supply strategic partner. So, we believe that for the most part it's been fixed, but it has affected our fill rates and obviously our sales.

You know what, it's not surprising, but it's related to an ERP implementation. That's not a function of the supplier being a bad supplier...

But not just us.

Not us today, but there are ERP implementations. So, it's great supplier and it's a significant supplier, and when they make these platform changes, it can be painful to them, but therefore it's painful to us. So, fully aligned with the supplier and, thankfully, they're coming back now in the last sort of week or two and their shipments are coming off. They do impact us and we can't avoid that.

Okay. And then in the past you've been quite helpful with some of the details regarding the Canadian organic growth without the Prairies. Could you be able to provide that or maybe provide how much down like the Prairies were for Uni- Sélect?

I think the Prairies are down the same was what we've said along the line. I think that's what we have highlighted, and what we don't want to do there is get into, this region's up, this one's off a little bit, this one's – [indiscernible] (31:05) of the business.

I think the big event was the Prairies over last couple of years, and now it's kind of in the 5% to 7% range, and it was 7% early on, and I think we're seeing a sort of [ph] compares of (31:15) 5% now. And that seems to be stabilizing into 4% or 5% at this point. And we're hopeful that that kind of would hit the floor there, and with oil and gas prices over time, we hope that will sort of pre-backup. But the rest of Canada, as Gary said and as I've said, it really is the [ph] body (31:32). There's no trend I'm going to tell you with. That the balance of Canada is economically depressed, it's very much [ph] body (31:39) and that's the same feeling we get from the discussions with our suppliers and our competitors, so I don't think there's anything unique and there's nothing. If we thought there was sort of a wholesale trend there to share with you, we'd do that.

Okay. And last question from me would be just on cash flow usage. I mean, obviously, we understand that M&A happens in clusters and those were more quiet in Q3. I mean, we see some debt repayment as well that happened in the quarter and obviously the NCIB was also renewed, so what's your kind of priority in terms of cash flow usage and at what point do you think it'd get active on the NCIB?

Well, [indiscernible] (32:15).

Sure. So look, as you mentioned, the predictability of an acquisition is – you need a willing seller, willing buyer at a price that makes sense for both parties. So, I'd like to tell you that we can schedule those on a monthly basis, on a quarterly basis, but that's just not how things work, so the priority of the capital deployment will remain on the acquisition. We obviously have a strategy to grow our stores network both in Canada and the U.S., and we'll expand our capital expenditure on that side in order to absorb the acquisition that we're doing and that we've done.

As it relates to NCIB level look, obviously, we got a figure that we disclosed per se. It's in place, it will kick in if we feel it's adequate, and as we've done in the past.

Okay. Thank you.

I couldn't agree more, but I want to make sure everybody understands. Our number one priority is to acquire great companies that fit with our business, that are accretive, and that help us grow this business for the long run. That's the number one sort of use of funds that we see as being the top priority. And we are very happy with the pipelines we have in both businesses. Well, I wish I could organize and schedule these things so they come out in a very determined precise schedule, but that, as you said, is just not the nature of the game, they come in clusters. So, that absolutely remains our priority, and we are very happy with the pipeline that we've got in front of us.

Great. And just one final housekeeping one from me would be, you mentioned that there was some tax refund that helped free cash flow. Can you just quantify that for us, please? Thank you.

Yeah, in terms of swing year-over-year, Leon, and we're talking about something like $6 million from a swing perspective because last year we paid, this year we got a reimbursement. So, the change on cash flow impact was about $6 million.

Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Leon.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the next question is from Jonathan Lamers. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hey, Jonathan.

Hi, Jonathan.

Hi, how are you?

Good.

Good morning.

Éric, just a follow-up on the $0.6 million of integration costs you mentioned.

Yes.

Would that be more weighted in Canada versus the U.S.?

No. Actually it was more weighted in the U.S. If you look at our MD&A, we also disclosed that we closed five locations during the quarter. So, there has been some integration costs related to those activities, but no there was some spend on both side of the border.

Okay. You have any further locations to be consolidated from the recent acquisitions?

Yeah, over time, there will be, Jonathan. I think, as we've mentioned on the FinishMaster side, when we make acquisition, typically site closure of acquisitions happens within 12 to 18 months from the date of purchase. So, we're executing that plan as per the acquisition we've done in the last few quarters.

Yeah. We don't disclose the locations for obvious reasons, but everything we've done so far makes total sense and has been premeditated in the sense we know that going in, what makes sense in terms of building up that network, and particularly in a density place. When we go to market, we know which ones that are – in a lot of cases, we're closing our own. It won't necessarily be the targeted location, we keep their location if it's the right fit for us and we close ours and we just design the network so it's efficient and effective for our customers.

Okay, thanks. And Eric, just a housekeeping item. The savings on the ERP synergies that you mentioned. Are those figures you provided relative to the $4.3 million negative [indiscernible] (35:47)?

Right. That is correct, Jonathan. Yeah. That's correct. Yes.

And one last question. I noticed you mentioned that in Canada, there was a bit of a mix shift between the direct shipping sales. I think in the past you said direct shipping is about half of Uni-Sélect Canada sales. Has there been any shift there?

It's a little bit under half of the Uni-Sélect traditional warehouse/direct shipment activities. I mean, yeah, the mix is a little bit different from the quarter of Q3 last year. But then again that depends, right? There's so many factors that affects direct shipment versus warehouse shipment, but they had an impact indirectly on margins for us because we don't make the same margins on direct versus warehouse shipment. And, as I said also, the stores' activity were quite robust in the quarter. So, I mean, that counterweighed what happened at the [ph] DC (36:40) level.

Yeah. And you'll get a little of bit of product mix happens, if you're selling I call it commodity oil on a disproportionate level, then you saw some more technical products that are at higher margins, that will have an impact on any given quarter too. So, that will vary, there's no predictability there. We love to sell all of them.

But I guess that underlying point is I couldn't see that there is a trend either way on direct versus warehouse activities.

Right. Okay. Thanks for your comments.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jon.

Thank you. The next question is from Elizabeth Johnston. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Elizabeth.

Hey, Elizabeth.

Just wanted to circle back briefly on the automotive segment, I know we talked already about the margin there. You also indicated that the margin was lower due to additional investments in relation to the corporate store initiatives, which I know you've talked about it already. Is that really related to the FinishMaster in Canada or does that also include some rebranding of the corporate stores?

It's a bit both, Elizabeth. I mean, there's activity on both sides on the FinishMaster Canada deployment and also on the Bumper to Bumper deployment. And, as we said, we expect to continue to make those investments in the foreseeable future, as we are converting the stores to Bumper to Bumper or converting some [ph] extra (37:47) stores to FinishMaster Canada.

Yeah. Remember, we'll do it – the whole Bumper to Bumper conversion [ph] in fact (37:54) matches our corporate stores. It's also our independence. So, as we convert independence, we help them with things like signage.

Yeah.

So, I mean, we're happy to do that as we build this truly national brand that's something that's fully part of our capital and part of our branding strategy for the overall business. So, we have Bumper to Bumper in independence, we have Bumper to Bumper in corporate stores, and the integration costs they have the overall investment line, but we also invest in things like the PartsWatch, which we told you was point of sale or jobber management, that's a couple of million dollar investment, that's not on an SAP platform. So, those are the things that we're investing in, as well as the cost of integrating the businesses.

But in terms of the item, would you say that most of it's coming from the rebranding?

Well, when we say investment in corporate stores, it includes the fact that we have to staff the infrastructure properly in order to [ph] pose (38:42) ourself for the growth that is coming. So, it's not just one element that you're investing in. You're investing into the overall establishment of the business and that's been the bulk of the costs and investments that we're doing.

Okay. Understood. That's it for me. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Elizabeth.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting back over to Mr. Buckley.

Great. Thanks, Donna. So, thanks. We're again very, very pleased with the progress we're making on a number of fronts in the organization. So, thank you very much for the call today. We really enjoyed the dialogue, and I'd like to just let you know that the year-end results conference call is now scheduled for February 9, and we'll try and use the same format where we have this web presentation to help you out and be as transparent as we can in the future. So, look forward to talking to everybody on February 9 or before. Thanks, everyone.

Thank you, Mr. Buckley. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.