Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Louis Juneau — Secretary & Chief Legal Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Éric Bussières — Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President & Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Charles Perron-Piché — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital, Inc. (Broker)
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial, Inc. (Broker)
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Jonathan Lamers — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (Canada)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Uni-Sélect details for the 2016 Second Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Louis Juneau. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Wayne. Good morning, everyone and welcome to the Uni-Sélect 2016 second quarter financial results, conference call. Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meanings of securities legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our latest Annual Report available on SEDAR as well as in the press release issued yesterday.

Joining me in here in Boucherville this morning are Henry Buckley, President and CEO; Éric Bussières, CFO; Steve Arndt, President and COO, FinishMaster; and Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada.

I will first turn the call over to Henry, who will discuss the key highlights of the last quarter. Éric will then discuss a few important financial information elements, for Q2. After their presentation, we will open up the call to questions. Over to you, Henry?

Thank you, Louis and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us. I want to begin my remarks today by expressing how pleased I am with the performance of both our businesses in terms of executing our strategies and delivering results. On a consolidated basis, total sales for the quarter grew 14.6%, with FinishMaster of 26.5% and the Canadian Automotive Group at 5% on a Canadian dollar basis.

Also, on a consolidated organic basis for the quarter, we achieved growth of 0.1%, driven by 2.1% at FinishMaster and negative 2.3% growth for Automotive Canada. Our EBITDA margin reached 9.2%, earnings grew to $16.8 million. We achieved earnings per share of $0.40.

Our teams are highly focused on executing our plan, which is accelerating profitable growth, a balance of organic and acquisitive growth, effectively integrating our acquisitions, and building the best team in the business.

FinishMaster delivered strong performance in the quarter, both growing organically and also acquiring key businesses to expand their geographic coverage and build density in key U.S. markets. Our teams are doing an excellent job in integrating these businesses into our FinishMaster family.

The integration team and our formal integration processes are delivering on our planned business results and synergy capture. We are pleased to add these new businesses, new team members, and new customers to our business. Our acquisition benefits will continue to grow, as we fully integrate these companies over the planned periods, absorb integration costs and see the full benefits of our synergies from these growing businesses.

Our focus continues to be on growing organically and our teams are adding new customers and expanding business with existing customers in both our key segments, traditional collision repair centers and our MSO, Multi-Shop Operator customers.

In Canada, we continue to be focused on growth. While we achieved overall growth in the quarter, our organic growth was below our expectations. The impact of the slowdown in the oil and gas segment in the Prairies is the primary driver. The balance of the year outlook remains optimistic as we execute on our organic sales growth strategies.

We're bringing on new independent jobber customers and we're seeing strong results from our newly launched sales force. We believe the overall market is soft, however, we are focused on gaining market share. In addition, we're seeing healthy organic growth from our growing corporate store network. We are now up to 50 locations, have a leadership team in place and are focused on building out this platform nationally. We have installed robust integration processes and are also delivering on our planned synergies.

Our new Canadian branding initiative is well underway and we continue to be dedicated to delivering first-class customer experience in both our Automotive aftermarket brand Bumper to Bumper and Auto Parts Plus. These strategies add significant value to our independent jobbers, our corporate stores and our installer customers. More than ever before, we are sending a strong message that we are Canada's Parts People.

In terms of acquisitions, we completed several key acquisitions over the course of Q2. At FinishMaster, we announced three transactions helping expand our geographic coverage and building density in key markets. Firstly, the Annex Group with nine locations, six in California and three in the Seattle, Washington area. We then added Gladwin Paint Company with eight locations across several key metropolitan markets in Texas. We closely followed this by acquiring Zitco, Inc., with one location and significant presence in Minneapolis.

We are thrilled to welcome these new talented team members to the Uni-Sélect family and help us accelerate profitable growth.

Before I conclude my remarks and discuss of our priorities and focus going forward, let me now turn the call over to Éric Bussières. Over to you Éric.

Thank you, Henry. Good morning, everyone. To begin, let me preempt my comments by mentioning that the results discussed on this call are compared to last year adjusted results, which included two-month of operation of Uni-Select USA, Inc. and Beck/Arnley Worldparts, sold on June 1, 2015.

As you have certainly noticed, the lower Canadian dollar has continued to impact our results, yet not operationally. In Q2 alone, the declining Canadian dollar penalized sales by $5.7 million or 2% at the consolidated level, which translate into a negative impact of 4.5% on the sales of our Automotive products.

You will also have noticed from analyzing our results, that our sales performance was impacted by difference in a numbers of billing days between Q2 2016 and Q2 2015. The additional billing date in Q2 this year had a positive comparative impact of $2 million or 0.7% of sales.

We are pleased by the progress in our EBITDA margin generated by our two operating units. With a 12.4% margin in our U.S. Paint and related product segment and 7% in our Canadian Automotive product segment for consolidated EBITDA margin of 9.2%. Included in our operating results, we spent approximately $300,000 in the transaction cost during the quarter and year-to-date $800,000 mainly in our U.S. Paint and related product segments. These transaction costs do not include the related integration cost.

Our account receivables level increased by $15 million against last quarter. Over a 50% of this increase is attributable to business acquisition and the remaining from ongoing operation following the increase in the volume of sales realized during the second quarter.

Inventory increased by $13.6 million compared to last quarter and this increase is entirely related to our various business acquisition closed during the quarter. Following the various acquisitions, goodwill intangible increased by approximately $46 million and $25 million respectively. Amortization of intangible against the last quarter increased by $700,000. Cash flow from operating activities totaled $38.1 million and like the preceding three quarters, we had one last payment under the vendor financing program for the sold operations equivalent to $2.6 million.

Accordingly, cash flow from ongoing operating activities before this payments were positive $40.7 million. I would also like to point out that the quarterly free cash flow increased by 19% from $25.9 million last year to $30.8 million mainly due to income tax refund and lower CapEx.

At the beginning of the second quarter – sorry, at the beginning of the quarter, we purchased on a whole split basis 405,970 common shares at an average price of C$0.2820 or $0.2145 in equivalent U.S. dollar for a total consideration of C$11.4 million or $8.9 million. As you know our share price was fairly volatile during the first quarter in the month of April. As a result, we took the opportunity to purchase some shares since we felt it was a nice return for our shareholders.

As of June 30, we had 627,420 shares available under our NCIB program that will be expiring on August 10. Subject to board approval and regulatory approval, a new NCIB program for 2016-2017 is expected to be in effect during the month of August. We are updating our guidance for 2016. However, please recall that starting in 2017, we will no longer be providing the guidance.

For the U.S. Paint and related product segment, we're adjusting our guidance for organic growth from 4% to 6% to a range of 3% to 4%, [indiscernible] (09:51) automotive product segment from a low-mid single digit to flat at an average exchange rate of C$0.76 to U.S. dollar for the full year, we now expect sales to range between $1.2 billion and $1.225 billion. We are increasing our EBITDA margin guidance for 2016 from a range of 7.75% to 8.75% to a range of 8.25% to 9%.

Our guidance on CapEx remain unchanged at $20 million with an acceleration of investments during the second half of the year with three key initiatives. As of June 30, our outstanding total net debt stood at $166.3 million. Cash mainly used to finance [indiscernible] (10:36) accretive business acquisition and share buyback under the NCIB.

Our access to liquidity is strong with $234 million in available credit facility. In addition, we had $18.3 million of cash held in escrow or 64% of this in support of the various balance of purchases at the end of the second quarter. Uni-Sélect is in a strong position to actively seek and seize opportunities through key acquisition to extend our geographic coverage and build density in key markets at FinishMaster. In Canada, we will continue to invest in our distribution capability and our corporate stores network.

This completes my financial review. Back to your Henry.

Great. Thank you, Éric. Let me conclude my remarks today by reaffirming our strong commitment to pursue in our profitable growth efforts, both organically and through accretive business acquisitions. This is our commitment to our shareholders and the number one objective pursued by each of Uni-Sélect's 3,000 plus teammates. On this note, I'm pleased to announce our board accrued a dividend of $0.85 per share payable October 18, 2016 to shareholders of record September 30, 2016.

Turning to the third quarter of 2016, we will continue working toward building our leadership positions in both businesses. We are truly committed to accelerating initiatives to drive organic growth and facilitating the effective integration of our newly acquired companies and building the best teams in the business.

In closing, I wish to sincerely thank the entire Uni-Sélect team for their continued commitment and passion towards delivering the industry's best customer experiences. We are now ready to answer your questions.

Operator, please, Wayne?

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, gentlemen. This is Charles Perron, filling in for Benoit. Thanks for taking my questions, and congratulations for the good results.

Thank you.

Thanks, Charles.

So, maybe first, I was wondering, if you can shed more light on the organic growth performance during the quarter in the automotive division? And if you can maybe discuss your expectations for the back half of the year, and if you think organic growth could maybe return into positive territory in 3Q and 4Q with your market share strategy, market share gain strategy that you discussed previously?

Yeah, thanks Charles. I can ask Gary to help us with that question for organic in Canada.

Hi, Charles. Yeah, there is no doubt that what we're seeing right now is – obviously, we have a big business section segment in the Prairies, which is really hurting our results, what's going on in the Prairies, so that's negatively affecting us. Over and above that, we see that the – the car count in the installer garage and that seems to be somewhat lower in the second quarter, so which translates to lower sales obviously. Going forward, at some point this usually picks back up and people have to get their cars repaired, so they will, they can delay it for a while but they usually come back at some point. So it's hard to say exactly how the third quarter and fourth quarter will work out. But we're working diligently to make sure that we have a bigger presence in those markets so we can get [ph] a decent (14:06) market share.

Yeah, just on this because this is obviously one of the things that we're looking at for both businesses our organic growth. This is absolutely a key strategy for us. So – let's face it, in Q2 we saw some softness in the markets. We still believe we're gaining significant market share here. We're seeing positive growth from our corporate stores. We've seen a number of independents, as Gary said in the Prairies that are seeing softer there. But pulling our competition and things like that – it's sort of subjectively, it's been a softer market in the second quarter. So as we look at the balance of the year we're bringing on some new independent jobbers, customers and I think that bodes really well for us organically.

We're far from giving up on the balance of the year. Let's face it, we're halfway into the year. We've seen a little softness in the economy but that doesn't mean we're throwing in the towel yet. Far from it, we've got lots of stuff on the table to accelerate to the balance of the year. So we still remain positive on it. We adjusted the guidance to flat just to make sure we're reflecting the reality of where we are today. We had a positive 1.5% in the first quarter. We are at a negative in the second. We're picking up through the balance of the year. So we're not ready to throw the towel in yet.

Okay, okay. Very good color. Thank you very much on that. And maybe now on the cash deployment opportunity. You're not debt free anymore, but free cash flow was solid and you're still having some flexibility in terms of balance sheet. How should we be thinking in terms of priority going forward between M&A, share buyback and dividend? And maybe more on the M&A, how would you qualify your pipeline and the valuations in the sector versus what they were three months ago?

So look, the answer is going to be same all the way through the year. Right now, yeah, we have done some accretive acquisitions throughout the course of the year. We're very pleased with that on a couple of fronts. One is that we've bought some truly accretive businesses and they are adding to our ability to grow our business both in the U.S. Paint segment and build out the corporate store network in Canada. That mission is not going to change. We're still going to continue to do that. We have the flexibility in the balance sheet to do that.

I think Éric shared it very, very well in the first quarter, we saw some softness in the share price and that's an opportunity to really add some value to shareholders. And we did continue to buy shares back in that quarter. And if that happens again throughout the balance of the year, we'll continue to do that as our NCIB allows. So clearly, that is the – something we'll consider. We've got a consistent track record of dividends and we don't see that changing at this point but that's up to the board to discuss and determine every quarter. So really it boils right back down to us focusing on our M&A pipeline and we have a strong M&A pipeline in both businesses.

So both in the U.S. Paint and the related product segment and then the Canadian Automotive Segment, we're making sure that we are highly focused on adding the right companies to build out on our strategy. We're not interested in just adding any company. It's got to be the right fit for our business. We're going to have to be disciplined in terms of what we pay for and we are highly focused on integrating those businesses. So, I don't think you'll see any change of direction on us moving forward. We're going to continue to do just that.

Okay, okay. Thanks for the color. And maybe last one from me. I was wondering if you could describe the performance in the automotive EBITDA margin. As I know, you guys have been adding new corporate stores in accretive acquisition but I was wondering if you had to make some discount on pricing to support sales volume especially probably in Western Canada? And also, at the same time, if you believe last year's EBITDA margin for the 3Q and 4Q provided a proxy for your expectation in second half of this year with the strategy in place?

Well, I'll answer the first part of it. No, we have not changed our pricing strategy to move volume. That just moves the problem from one quarter to another. So, we've been very consistent and very conserved in how we go-to-market? So, we haven't done any of that. For the second part of your question.

Yeah. So, on that, on the returns for the automotive business in Canada, I think we shared with you, we got more seasonality in the automotive business. So, in Q2 and Q3, there are stronger EBITDA returns in Q2 and Q3, and we have slightly lower in Q4 and Q1. And we don't expect that trend to change. The only thing that could change a little bit is what the economy does as we discussed in terms of the softness at the current moment. And also, some of the impact that we have by accelerating some of our customer growth. So, those are two variables that we'll deal with every quarter, but our outlook still remains positive as we discussed.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much for the time guys.

Thank you.

Thanks Charles.

Thank you. The following question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hey Tony.

Yes. Hi, good morning. Good morning, Henry. Maybe couple of questions in terms of regional performance. So, if we were to look at the organic growth rates or if you can maybe give us some color on the markets. What was happening in Quebec and Ontario and Alberta? And maybe if you can give us a bit of color on the competitive landscape. And also maybe some color on the car dealerships. How are they progressing in this? Are they losing market share to you?

Okay. I'll take that, I guess.

Hi, Gary.

Actually the Quebec marketplace is doing fairly well. Ontario, we – it's a tough market, Ontario lot of competition, very competitive. Having said that, we've recently signed some new customers, which will really help us going forward. And there is no doubt Alberta, it's suffering. We do have [indiscernible] (20:01) bright spots across the Province, but overall its really being affected by what's going on in the oil sands and the whole economy.

And talking from a competitive, you know what – our competitors are working hard like we are. But having said that, like Henry mentioned, they're strong in the same way we are. They're affected by the economy the way we are, so they're – they're not gaining market share for – as far as we can see. So, it's just a tougher market environment right now from the economy of the consumers.

And as for the car dealers, well, I mean, they keep on doing what they're doing. We don't believe they're gaining any market share. They've got a finite number of shops that they can deal with in customer base. The only negative we can see that – there seems to be a lot more newer cars out in the marketplace, and obviously that affects our warehousing where we go-to-market, but nothing has changed there dramatically.

That's good for us, long-term.

Long-term.

So, as you know the new car sales really affects us, as soon as they hit sort of four years and beyond. We get the benefit of oil changes and things like that through the installer base in the early years. But as that car park grows, we're pretty enthusiastic about the long-term prospects there. Again going back to the market, okay, its one quarter, right? We're a – little softness in the quarter. A little choppy in different spots as Gary said in Ontario. A little bit, but not much, and outlook, there is not any different than it has been. We're going to have to continue to deal with the oil and gas segment like everybody else is. We're not immune to that. We don't see it getting much worse. We think it's bottomed out, but who really knows. But overall we still see a pretty good market in it. We're focused on gaining market share and everything we can see so far tells us we're doing just that.

And with the weakness of the Canadian dollar, do you expect some of the manufactures to implement price increases in the second half of the year?

No, that's something that we don't see. We talk to the manufacturers and I think – obviously in the first quarter as the Canadian dollar strengthened against the U.S. dollar, that shied all of the U.S. manufacturers away from putting price increases in the year. So we haven't seen price inflation this year, but we saw a bit last year. We didn't see it this year. We don't forecast it for the balance of the year; come the fourth quarter, they may change their mind and install something for the end of the year, but we haven't seen any notifications of that yet.

Okay, and one last question. Can you remind us what percentage of sales here in Canada do you have related to private label and have you seen any change in consumer behavior?

Private label, Tony is about 7% to 8% of our sales on [indiscernible] (22:54) segment.

Okay.

And I mean, I don't think the consumer hasn't changed, I mean, obviously we've been trying to really grow that part of that segment from the margin perspective and we have [indiscernible] (23:06) really great quality and excellent coverage, and so we'll be pushing that, but they'll never be 20% of our business with the line of the product we have, so we keep focusing on it.

We are a national brand house. So this is very complementary for us and we'll continue to build it out, but we're a national brand player.

Right. Okay. Well, thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. The following question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, guys.

Hey, Leon.

I've just a kind of comeback to that same questions. It's being asked in two different ways for the Prairies. What were the organic growth have been, excluding the Prairies?

We didn't do that calculation this month. It was a bit choppy over the quarter, so it's spread out. It's probably – it wasn't an awesome quarter across the other regions, probably in the zone of flat, we didn't do the calculation to verify that.

Okay. Yeah, I think you had provided that in Q1. So, just wondering if you have done it for Q2 as well so. Okay. If you could just [indiscernible] (24:09) on the U.S., side, I mean, organic growth there as well. I mean, it was around the 2% range. We're trending more upwards, closer to the 4% range, and we see that you've kind of slightly amended the guidance from 4% to 6% to 3% to 5%. Can you talk to us a little bit about what was going on there as well?

Sure. We have Steve to answer that one.

Hey, Leon. Good morning. The Paint industry is a little flat right now. The number of repairs that are going through shops are flat to slightly up. We're – we feel really comfortable about where we are at with gaining market share and growing. Our pipeline is very robust in that, so, a little tick down, and Henry said it it's one quarter, it's one month but we are very optimistic on where we will be headed in the third and fourth quarters.

Okay. Thanks for that. And just one final one from me would be, just on your inventory, right. We see that there is Annex, Gladwin, Zitcos, some fairly sizable acquisitions there. And what's kind of your comfort level what you have for inventory right now and what can we expect in terms of working capital going forward for the balance of the year? Thanks.

Are you talking strictly on the U.S., side or on a consolidated Canada and U.S., side?

Both, for the consolidated side.

Well, look, I think from a working capital perspective, we expect to maintain and improving in a little bit our working capital for the remainder of the year. Obviously, if there is sizable acquisition that materialized in Q3 and Q4 that will have an impact on our free cash flow. In terms of inventory level, I will see that my expectation is that we should see some slight reduction in the inventory over time, simply by the time that we digest the acquisitions we made and start to optimizing the inventory level following those acquisitions.

Yeah.

So, I'm fairly optimistic that the working capital will continue to improve itself.

Yeah. Even we're focused on turns, I think nothing has changed in terms of Automotive Canada. We've popped up the inventory to make sure our fill rates were top shelf. They are – that stabilized and we're in good shape in Canada and then in FinishMaster, we've continued to digest those acquisitions.

You know, our turn targets internally we're working through those, but again it's imperative that we have the inventory we buy the companies. It takes us time to install the new pricing we get from vendors as we turn the inventory and at the same time, that's the time when we moderate what inventory levels are where. So, I think as [ph] they are excess (26:42), you'll see that come down a little bit, but you'll probably see it grow up again as we acquire more companies over time.

And just one final one then, so how was the integration coming along with Annex and Gladwin for example. I mean, where would you say you are kind of in integration cycle on that?

Leon, this is Steve again. We are right on our plan. We've got a great plan that's put together and we have a integration team that's dedicated. This is what they do full-time and each one is a little bit different based on their size, based on the complexity of the companies, but we're on plan and I would say maybe a little bit ahead with Annex right now. So, we're very comfortable with the direction [indiscernible] (27:25) integration..

I would say that, that will place there all in fact you know, I think I have shared with all of you, we have a very disciplined approach to acquisitions both in terms of our processes, in terms of dedicated people doing it and we're executing on the game plan, which also includes reviewing it on a constant basis. So we were just with Steven and his team, reviewing the detailed integration activities of all of the acquisitions we've made, not just Annex or Gladwin, all of them, they're all at different stages. So we expected to layer in the synergy benefits over time. So that includes looking at the inventory benefits our – by price, our product synergy versus what the target was or the acquired company was buying for, that happens as we cycle through the inventory.

So, as you look at that over time, you'll see those benefits accrue kind of over sort of six months to nine months, if you think about it on its return basis. Anything there is, what is a consolidation opportunity that could happen over one years to two years, back office and IT, three months to six months, those are the kind of timeframes that we have for all of the acquisitions. And again, I got to tell you, we're very pleased with the way it's going both in the U.S. and Canada as we review these acquisitions and drive integrations success [ph] well, that's wondered (28:43) to me one of the highlights of what we're doing strategically today and we're well on track in both businesses.

Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Leon.

Thank you. The following question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Hey, Sara.

Good morning.

Can you comment on the acquisitions that were added in the quarter. I'm not sure if I missed this somewhere, but how much revenue in EBITDA have you added on in Q2 specifically?

Yeah. We never highlight any of those individual transactions either in terms of sales volume or in terms of EBITDA. I know everybody would really like us to do that. We don't do that and we'll continue to have that playbook, that's something that we clearly don't [ph] want into (29:30) the market. So we'll continue to be a little quiet that way, and we're just very confident in terms of being able to integrate those ones and it'll be reflected in the results as we move forward.

Okay. And I guess the debt level was a little higher than I expected, that's why I'm asking. I just wondered if the revenues were significantly greater than maybe the Street expected, and therefore the multiple pay just resulted in a higher transaction price. I'm just wondering debt wise was there a surprise or is it all tied back to the acquisition prices?

So Sara, it's Éric. It's all tied back to the acquisitions mainly, and obviously, they ongoing normal operating activities that we have. For us, the debt level is in line with our expectations and we have certainly paid all those acquisition within the range that we've indicated in the past. So, we have not exceeded any of the range that we've telegraphed to everyone as through our multiples that we pay for those businesses.

Okay. And then just on the margin, both for Canada and FinishMaster, were there any surprises to the management team in terms of the performance of both? I guess for Canada, I'd have expected a bit higher and for FinishMaster a bit lower. But internally were there any variances versus expectation?

No. Not really. Look, the reality is that the FinishMaster margins are robust and solid and they continue to perform, and as we said, the acquisitions are accretive, and therefore the benefit that we see on our EBITDA margins. In Canada, well, look obviously, we – the quarter was a little bit softer then we would have liked. And that we've talked about the softness on the organic growth side. So, that has an indirect impact on the overall sales volume, and thereby directly on the margins. Now, are we unhappy with the margin? Absolutely not. I think it's a good performance by the Canadian Automotive Group. And as we're building our network on cooperate stores, I think we'll see some margin expansion over time.

Okay. Great. And then maybe just on – you commented that buying any large acquisitions in the back-half of the year, working capital changes should be improving. Just wondering, what kind of pipeline do you see ahead in terms of both Canada and FinishMaster, is it still very tuck-in oriented or could there be larger transactions in the near future?

Yeah. We've got a great pipeline in both businesses. So, we're very happy with that and it – yeah, as you can see, it will be variable. And again, it goes back to finding the right acquisitions, at the right time, at the right price. So, we are very disciplined in what we pay and again, as Éric said, we don't go out of those ranges. We're not forcing anything into quarters or timeframes. When we find the right companies, the right fit, we install them. So, our hope and expectation is to do more in the back-half of the year, nothing to announce at this point.

And in terms of size, I'm sure everybody loves to do a big acquisition, but we're equally as happy as small- and medium-size tuck-ins. There quite frankly, we're getting very good at being able to acquire those companies and to digest them/integrate those businesses into our network, and that's something that we'll continue to do moving forward. And if one of those big opportunities comes up, sure, we're again, very much keen to look at it. But we're not seeing they're having that as our number one focus in our playbook. We're happy to go and do what exactly what we've been doing over the last 12 months, which is find nice quality tuck-in businesses and grow and integrate them, and grow them effectively, that's probably our primary strategy. Again, big one comes along, we'll be happy to look at it.

And do you feel confident that there are a number of more sort of Annex, Gladwin types available in FinishMaster territory or in the territory you want to get into for FinishMaster?

Yeah. For both businesses. We've got a great pipeline in both businesses, and FinishMaster has it, Canada has it. Canada, for example, we're now up to 50 corporate stores. And we put ourselves in a walk mode for a minute, just to make sure we have all of our integration efforts in place, our branding is in place, we've hired the right team to install our integration and integrate those businesses, and a leadership team to run those corporate stores. So we're exceptionally pleased with that. I mean, exceptionally pleased is where we are today on that. And that will allow us to acquire more of those stores over time. So our pipeline is strong in both businesses. Steve's got a great pipeline. It just got to be the right fit for us, that fits in with our strategy of geographic expansion and our density play. So we're happy with both.

Okay. And maybe lastly, just in your comments, there is a mention of Q3 leadership focus, what did you mean by that? Where do you need to sort of amp up the leadership team.

That was more about market leadership than it was a leadership team. We're very happy with our leadership team in both businesses. I think, the one I just described was the corporate stores. If you think about where we were in Canada, we're very good at running independent jobbers, and our focus has been to ensure that if we're going to be in the corporate store business, we're going to be exceptionally good at it, both in terms of strong leadership and we have the strong [ph] VP, GM (34:48) for corporate stores in Canada. We've added integration folks both in terms of leadership, merchandising, IT integration, was decided on what our JMS system is for the Canadian store business, that's all in place today. We just hired a General Manager for our Western Canadian stores. So we're exceptionally pleased with the leadership team in Canada on the corporate store side. And we've also got a great team on the independent jobber site. So we're very confident in that team, and Steve's got equally robust team in the U.S. Paint segment.

So, from that part of it, we're strong. I think our focus is making sure we maintain our leadership positions in both those markets and gain market share. That's the kind of thing that sits in the front of our heads every single day and making sure we'll have to adopt to markets as they grow and contract, but moreover, we need to make sure that we're focused on leadership gains in each one of the businesses and gain market share.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Sara.

Thank you. The following question is from Jonathan Lamers. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Hey, Jonathan.

I think, net debt to EBITDA leverage has increased to about 1.7 times or close to that level. Does the company continue to target a leverage range of 2 times to 2.5 times?

Yeah. I mean that – we're maintaining those guidance. And as I've said and as we've explained before, typically we had to burn cash in Q1, we generated cash in Q2, Q3, Q4. The reality is by the end of Q2, we typically recovered the cash we burn in Q1 and then we start generating cash in Q3, Q4, what I'm pleased with this quarter is that, in fact we ended up cash positive after two quarters, a little bit higher than what we initially envisioned at the beginning of the year. So, from that perspective, we do expect the additional cash to be generated in Q3, Q4, which if there is no other acquisitions would translate over time at deleveraging where we are at the end of the quarter. In terms of guidance, we were maintaining that we're quite comfortable with the leverage of 2 times to 2.5 times and we're even willing to go higher in the event of a larger acquisitions that would justify such a leverage.

Okay. Thank you. For FinishMaster, I know there's been a lot of comments about the organic sales growth. I mean, has the pace of net customer recruitment changes it at all for FinishMaster, this year versus last year?

Jonathan, this is Steve. Our pipeline for organic customer growth is still as robust as it was last year. We are actually ahead of the target for our goal for new customer attraction. So it's therefore, I think if there is any area and that's traditional customers, any area that we maybe a little bit slow and it's just the acquisition and integration of the MSO customers and that's really more on their side of the growth that they're having. So we're very pleased with the attraction of new customers that we've got going on right now.

I think, Steve, yeah, a big issue there is the MSO customers. That's a massive opportunity for us, but that will fluctuate based on their activity. So I think you've seen us in previous quarters, where there's been lots of MSOs that are acquiring companies with that opportunities as well as big MSOs acquire some of the traditional business to be able to acquire and integrate those businesses into the FinishMaster network, and that volume will fluctuate. We could see that ramp up in a quarter or two quarters, and we'll see it soften at a different levels. So that's something that we have left sort of influence over. We love it, when they acquire and we can integrate those businesses, and we'll take it every single day. But our day-to-day job is to make sure we're out there block and tackle selling all those traditional customers, making sure we don't lose any market share, we gain market share in all those MSOs. But the gravy for us is when they really truly expand and that's something, as Steve says, we don't have sort of a direct influence over.

Okay. Great. And can you comment on the buying conditions you're seeing ahead of Q3 versus the favorable buying conditions in the first half of the year?

You're talking FinishMaster or Canada or...

I'm looking for FinishMaster.

I think at the end of the day FinishMaster continues to optimize buying conditions, no matter what, I mean, [indiscernible] (39:31) we always use our scale. A lot of our buying conditions will depend on things like price increases, where we can buy ahead of those. Everybody does it. I think we do a very, very good job at it, in terms of making sure we get ahead of that curve. And we've got a solid track record to been able to buy ahead, take any benefits from that and make sure we dissipate that inventory over time. So, I think nothing has changed. We continue to pursue that and take any opportunities we can.

Okay. And one question on the Canadian business. Can you tell if consumers in the Prairie provinces are deferring vehicle maintenance? And based on – if so, I mean, based on past recessionary periods that you've seen, is there typically a catch-up period, once the economy begins to recover?

Well, there's no doubt there, there is a delay from the consumers. But I think a bigger impact is all the oil activities. I mean, we're really strong in the oil patch and I know there is a lot of vehicles that are used in the oil patch, and we really work in that, and one day if that slows down, that hurts us probably a lot more than what the consumer is going through, although there is some impact there. So, it's a cycle. It will come back. Actually, we're starting to see a bit of activity in some areas where they're starting to drill again and that will help us. So it's a cycle we have to go through, and this maybe a little longer cycle in the past. But we strongly believe it will come back to acceptable levels.

I think it's a function of parking lot too. At the end of the day, as Gary said, there is less people in Alberta today. The people living in those communities that are oil and gas affected, there was outmigration out of that province. So you see a lot more – a lot less, quote unquote, pick-up trucks, in the parking lot now than you did see two years ago. So, to you question when we start to see an uptick and then start to rehire, there's going to be more pickup trucks in the parking lot moving forward. That's kind of the primary driver I would say as opposed to the consumer behavior. I think people have been laid off going back a year ago, at some point you need to get your car repaired. And I think that there may be some delay there, but I think that's a minor point compared to the size of the parking lot that's out there in the field today.

Okay, thank you Gary O'Connor.

Thanks, Jon Lamers.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] There are no further questions registered. I would like to return the meeting to Mr. Buckley.

Great. Thanks, Wayne. So I think if we just look back and reflect on the quarter, we said very, very clearly we're very, very happy with the number of things. are we sitting here happy with organic growth? no. But I can assure you Steve, Gary and the entire team is focused on that and remember this is one quarter, this is not the long-term. We're highly focused on building this business both in Canada and U.S. for the long-term. and one of the things that excites me most about our progress is that fact that if you're going to be in the acquisition game, which we have, we've demonstrated we've acquired a huge number of companies over the last 18 months, circa 25, 26 companies today. The key has been able to integrate those businesses successfully, capture the benefits, and be able to tuck them in and make them a part of the family. And that's something that I am extraordinarily pleased in terms of our progress on.

We've got the right team in place. We've got the right processes in place. We're executing on it. We're measuring our progress and we're tracking that. And that's something that I'm absolutely delighted about in terms of the success we have. So, as we build out our business for the long run, which is our focus. We're establishing a very strong position in the U.S. market with FinishMaster. We are the leader in that business and our job is to extend that lead, and we're very clearly doing that and we're committed to pursuing that goal moving forward. The same goes for Canada. In Canada, we've got a strong position in this marketplace. We're building that out in terms of drawing our business with our independent customers. We're doing so by building out a network of corporate stores. We're 50 today and we're aiming much higher than that on an a national basis over time. And the combination of those two things, followed by the focus on our branding is really positioning us extraordinarily well to grow the Canadian business and extend our leadership position in the Canadian marketplace.

On looking out in the longer-term, beyond just what the quarter does, I'm very pleased with our progress in terms of where we got to today, and I'm optimistic about how the future looks for us.

So really appreciate your support. Thank you for the questions and we look forward to talking to you in the next quarter in October. Thank you, everyone.

Thank you. That concludes today's conference call. Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.