Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard G. Roy — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
J. Andre Lacy — President & Chief Executive Officer, FinishMaster, Inc.
Gary O’Connor — Executive Vice President, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — CFO, Vice President & Head-Investor Relations, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Jessy Hayem — Analyst, TD Securities
Elaine Lae — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Vincent Perri — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants please stand by. Your conference is ready to begin. [Foreign Language] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Second Quarter Results Conference Call. I'd now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Richard G. Roy, President of Uni-Sélect. [Foreign Language] Please go ahead, Mr. Roy.

Merci beaucoup, Valerie. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the 2011 second quarter review of Uni-Sélect. With me today are the Denis Mathieu, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Gary O'Connor, our Executive Vice President; and Mr. J.A. Lacy, President of FinishMaster. I will be making my remarks in English, but as usual at the end of the presentation during the question period, you can voice your questions either in French or in English and we'll be happy to answer you in that language, I would assume except for my friend, J.

I also would like to remind you that since the 1st of January, the corporation has chosen the U.S. dollar as its reporting currency in its consolidated financial statements and our interim financial statements have been prepared in accordance with policies set under the first time adoptions of the International Financial Reporting Standards.

So let's start first about the highlights, the executive summary of our second quarter results. And sales for the quarter were $125.5 million higher than last year at $474.6 million. The increase in revenues versus last year is mainly made of the impact of the acquisition of FinishMaster, amounting to $117 million.

Also, the change in sales due to organic reasons were positive 1.8% for the quarter really by market we can see that the Canadian organic sales were up 2% while the U.S. organic sales were up 1.8%. Stores that were either closed or sold during the quarter or in previous quarters reduced revenues for the quarter by $2 million.

Net earnings now for the second quarter were $18.5 million or $0.85 per share, representing an increase of 27% in dollars and 15% increase per share compared to last year which had come in at $0.74 per share. Once adjusted for non-recurring items such as the implementation cost for the ERP and also for the Canadian warehouse reorganization expenses, adjusted earnings were in $19.1 million or $0.88 per share compared to $0.77 per share last year.

Moving onto the six months' results, sales for the first semester were $871 million, or 35% higher than last year which came in at $644 million. The increase in revenues versus last year is mainly made of again the acquisition of FinishMaster which added to $117 million to our revenues for the first six months of the year.

Changes in sales due to organic reasons were positive 1.3% for the six month period. Again in Canada, we were 1.9% positive organically and in the U.S. 1.1%. Again if we take a look at the impact of the stores that were closed last year or early this year, closed or disposed of, that reduced net sales by $4.4 million.

From an earnings perspective for the first six months of the year, net earnings were $28.2 million or $1.30 per share. This represents an increase of 30% in dollars and 18% in EPS compared to last year that has come in at $1.10. Once adjusted for non-recurrent items again such the gain on the disposal of assets, the acquisition expenses of FinishMaster, the ERP implementation cost and the warehouse reorganization expenses, adjusted earnings were $30.5 million or $1.41 per share compared to last year $1.18 per share.

If I move to the operational sections, looking at the sales in Canada, as I mentioned before, organically sales were up 2%. They were 1.8% in total again due to some stores that were closed or disposed of. Sequentially, we can say that the quarter started a little weak in April, but much stronger in May and June and that we see this positive trend going on in July. For the six months, year-to-date sales are up 0.9%, again 1.9% organic in nature, the difference being due to closed stores.

We have continued to sign supply agreements with national accounts and we have renewed some others including our contract with Canadian Tire that was renewed for a two-year period. From an operational point of view, we've done some streamlining to our warehouse network in Canada and we've moved a warehouse also.

Moving on to the U.S., overall, the U.S. sales for the second quarter of 2011 were up 54%, and as mentioned before 1.8% of this was organic. Year-to-date, sales are up 53%. Organically, sales are up 1.1%, and of course, acquisitions account for the difference.

Looking at the continued impact on sales, what we're seeing is that users of our banners program, whether they're jobbers or installers in the U.S., are increasing their purchases from Uni and therefore we're continuing our effort to increase those bannered jobbers and installers, as we're very confident that our model offers very good value. Execution on the major account opportunities that we have also and that were signed is stressed to continue to progress on the sales.

Operationally, I can tell you that we've opened a new store during the quarter and we're planning to open a new one during the next quarter, the third quarter and we've also made a small acquisition with two small stores in the North Central region. By the end of the year, we will have completed the remodeling of a dozen more stores to our dual market model with both basically retail and commercial sales.

Moving on to FinishMaster, I can tell you that the synergies of $2 million were planned for 2011, and they will be realized and even exceeded actually as we speak now. The annual synergies that we have already realized would have a run rate of about $4 million, and they will impact 2011 by more than $3 million.

Branch consolidation are beginning to happen right now, with the first three locations being merged this month and in October. And we're considering merging a total of 25 locations in 2012 and '13 as per the integration plan that we had published before.

Early opportunities for cross-selling with the mechanical parts within the collision centers reside mainly with the chemicals at the beginning. And beginning in July, the FinishMaster branches started carrying Auto Extra lubricants. Fluids and coolant will be introduced a little bit later during the year. Reception was good, but obviously it's too early to talk about sales there.

Let's move on to the implementation of our enterprise resource planning software. We have significant and successful milestones during the last quarter, following the implementation of our finance module in the second quarter of last year. This year, we have rolled out the operational modules in two pilot warehouses in April as planned.

We're working on completing all operational testing and we believe that we should be able to continue with the next implementation wave by October. This next wave was originally planned for August. However, this short delay should not affect significantly the global implementation plan scheduled to end by the end of 2012.

Overall, we're looking at a cost in the project that may differ from the overall by about $6 million, $4 million capitalizable overall and $2 million additional cost. I will remind everyone that the optimization of sales, improved margin management, better distribution activities, as well as improved asset management are at the heart of the benefit that we expect from this initiative.

On behalf of my friend and colleague, Denis Mathieu, I will tell you that the net debt was $335 at the end of the quarter, excluding the convertible debenture compared to $385 million as of the end of March, 2011. So this is a significant decrease of $50 million during the quarter. The total net debt to invested capital is now 39.3%, down from 43.4% last quarter.

In conclusion, during the next quarters, the corporation will continue to focus on several objectives; first obviously maintaining our efforts to increase the efficiency of our existing operations by increasing sales, improving productivity, and obviously, strict expense and asset control. The pursuit of the integration of FinishMaster, which is going very well, and we'll continue to focus on that. And then, the orderly deployment of the enterprise resource planning system, while making sure that the transition is smooth, not only for our resources, but mainly for our customers, and through sound management of that change. We are confident that the corporation has positioned itself to fully benefit from existing business opportunities in our market segments.

I'd like to take this opportunity before concluding to let you know that we will organize in September, September 26 and 27, two days for our investors and analysts who would be interested to join us to really better understand our PB&E business. So we will show you what we are already doing in Canada in this segment. And I will remind you that we're already the largest independent paint distributor in Canada. And obviously also with the newly acquired FinishMaster, so that you can see what is the real potential of that organization and understand why we're so excited about it.

So, many of you will be receiving an invitation some time between now and two weeks from now. If you haven't received anything and you're interested, I would encourage you to contact Linda Malo my assistant at lmalo@uni-select.com.

In conclusion, this is pretty much the end of our second quarter review. We're now ready for questions. And as I said earlier, please feel free to ask questions either in French or in English. Thank you very much and Valerie we are ready for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question, Jessy Hayem. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon Jessy.

Richard, according to your disclosure, it looks like FinishMaster contributed about $117 million in revenues in the quarter. And if I look at, I guess, the reported revenues last year, it looks like it had a 9% year-over-year growth. First of all, is that correct? And second, to what would you attribute such an increase in revenues in the FinishMaster business?

They had a nice growth. 9% is a little too high. My recollection is more in the 7%. And why don't I ask my friend and colleague, J. Lacy, to answer your question?

The growth that FinishMaster has realized has been a combination of being able to pass price increases from the suppliers through the value chain and market share gains that are the result of the growth initiative we've put in place in the third quarter of last year.

Okay. Is it pretty much evenly split or mainly price increases would you say, J.?

50-50.

Okay. And then, I guess, back to Richard. You mentioned, it looks like you guys are ahead of schedule on the synergies anyway, and I think you had been aiming for $2 million in synergies this year. You said you're at a run rate of about $4 million. Just looking to gauge I guess, is it just that things are – are you executing faster or are there some – did you uncover some additional synergies that you can give us some color on or maybe what the source of these synergies are?

I would tell you that we are executing a little bit faster than what we thought we would be. And so that's why we believe that the $6 million that we had forecast for next year certainly will be realized. It is possible at one point or another that we announce that we've done more than the overall $10 million, but for the moment it's a little bit too premature. But it's going very well. We are very satisfied. It's coming faster than what we have planned originally.

Okay. And then is any of this from starting to combine stores? I think you had identified some locations that were going to be combined or have you not started doing that yet?

Actually, the first combination of stores will happen this coming Friday.

Okay. Well, all right. Another question on the U.S. organic growth rate, it was pretty good considering, I guess, the poor weather that seemed to affect business in April. Again, was there anything particular driving the growth? Did you guys put through any price increases there or have you started cross-selling maybe some parts into the FinishMaster network? Any color there as well and how is business trending so far as well this quarter?

Listen, it's certainly is not due to price increases. So that's a real overall growth percentage. Business is okay, certainly not easier than it was a while ago. But it's real volume that we have there. One of the nice increase that we can tell you is that within our own operation, the product, Beck/Arnley product for the imported nameplates are growing significantly and Beck overall outside of Uni has also increased its sales by about 11% organically. So that certainly is part of our increases, and within Uni, we are growing that segment more than double-digit quite frankly.

Okay, great. I have a final question before I circle back. Just on the Canadian Tire contract that seems to have been renewed. Were there any major changes worth highlighting there or are you guys still expecting I believe it was a $15 million annual run rate if I remember correctly there?

I'd like to ask Gary to answer that one.

Yeah, Jessy. No, there are no significant changes to the agreement. Basically, we're going to continue doing what we're doing. The run rate, it varies, I would tell you, year to year, but it's in the vicinity you were talking about basically right now.

Okay, great. Thanks. I will go back for more, and congrats on a good quarter.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question, Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Just a first question on the product mix change that you commented on in MD&A, just what kind of shift are you seeing in it? Is it a greater focus on the private label brand?

I would tell you that, generally speaking, there's a couple of elements there in the shift, but in terms of the product, we are seeing some sales shifting to lower priced elements that would be a good characteristic. In terms of the mix of sales also, we are seeing more drop shipments if you want, or sales as opposed to warehouse sales and we're also seeing a very good increase in different type of customer base. I mentioned that we saw some increase with our banner account, but we also saw increase in our e-tailer accounts, e-commerce and also in major accounts, fleets and so and so forth.

And you were mentioning the national supplier agreement. Some of those are new and you have renewed. Do you think this will sustain or grow your organic growth base that you've already established in U.S. and Canada? Should we expect I guess -

This is one of the objective that we're pursuing, which is to widen the customer base that we can deal with and you know that we have been doing that in Canada for several years now and we're getting some benefits. And this is something we're doing more and more in the U.S.

And, in the U.S., I was just wondering, there was a brief comment on inflation. It's probably nothing substantial, but do you think there will be slight inflation and also inventory pre-buy opportunities to take advantage of this?

Well basically inflation is a little bit mixed bag because we are seeing in the second quarter just a little bit of inflation, like 0.2%, in the U.S. And in Canada quite frankly we don't see that because of the strength of the Canadian dollar. So overall, if you're looking at the global impact of inflation and North America, I would tell you it's minimal if any.

Okay. And the last question, do you see any potential – I mean with organic growth and that you have further demand coming, do you see a margin pickup above 7% on the EBITDA margin, or is 7% a good target for the year?

Well, again Elaine, I never give prospective information and we're working at improving all of that, but I really don't want to comment on that one, no.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Anthony.

Richard, with referring to your margins were relatively flat, but do we have any promotional activity during the quarter? Was there anything unusual or was it just normal business?

I would say it was normal business. There were some promotional activities that, if anything, squeezed the margins a little bit.

And is that over or is it continuing?

Gary, you want to comment on that.

We think that we did – we'll try to be a little more aggressive in the few months. I think it's going to – the pressure won't be on as much going forward, but there's no doubt that there were some pricing pressure that we reacted to. But I think the worse is over for the time being.

Okay. And Richard, can you give us a bit of an update on the market in terms of the channels? We noticed that there were a lot of car dealers that closed and then independents picked up the market share. Could you give us a bit of color of how Uni-Sélect is doing in that channel? And are there still great opportunities for you to capture?

Well, now, I'm not sure exactly I'm getting exactly what you're asking me. But what I can tell you is that in that segment, probably you may have read some comments by analysts that are talking about car dealerships with very difficult new car sales still continuing, putting more emphasis on the under repairs of all makes, all models if you want outside of their own brand. And we see that as offering some potential for us to supply them. Actually, we do have some agreements with a group of car dealerships and we have been increasing those sales during the second quarter, so that may very well be as something that can continue to expand there.

It is at this stage though very difficult to guess the exact impact of the car dealerships that closed over the last few years and what it has done. It's very difficult to measure. I would think that it certainly was a positive for the aftermarket in general, but I would be hard-pressed to give you real figure there.

Okay. And when do you think you'd be ready again to proceed with new acquisitions considering you have acquired FinishMaster? Are there certain regions that you're looking at in order to lever?

I would tell that, yes, we are ready to make acquisitions as we speak right now.

And, are there any particular regions, like more of the West Coast and?

No. I would not want to speculate there. We do have opportunities in several areas of North America.

Okay. Well thank you, Richard.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Otto.

Good afternoon. Just maybe a quick general industry question, recent reports from the AIA suggest the automotive industry in the U.S. is forecast to grow between 2010 and 2014, close to 4%. I mean is that a number that you guys are like – does that seem reasonable to what you guys are seeing in the U.S., given the U.S. opportunities right now?

Well, I will tell you that if I saw that report as you did, and I'm very encouraged to see that, when I talked to some of my manufacturers though they don't seem to be quite as enthusiastic. I think 2% to 3% maybe more of what they have in mind right now, but I certainly hope that AIA is right.

Okay. I'll send that to you after. And then, just maybe a quick question on your working capital, I mean like a bunch of the debt reduction was generated from reduction in working capital. Can you remind us of what kind of seasonality we should expect for the second half of the year? Should we expect something similar or a continued reversal?

I will ask Denis Mathieu to answer that one.

No, I don't expect that the $50 million debt reduction will be doubled for the next second half of the year. I think we were able to integrate the working capital of FinishMaster and also to deal with the different suppliers in term of adding some term and conditions. But that's behind us and at the end of the day, we will keep the same kind of working capital that we are having as we speak.

Okay, perfect. And, maybe one more question for you, Denis. In terms of the tax rate, you mentioned that this quarter's tax rate is not representative and then are you still expecting for the full year 21% to 22%, I believe? Is that what you said last quarter?

We're still on for the 21%, 22%.

Okay. That's all I have for now. Thank you.

Thank you, Otto.

Thank you. Our next question is from Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Thank you. I just wanted to go back on the selling price pressure that you're seeing and if it's in Canada and the U.S. as well, and if it comes from any of what we talked about before the U.S. competition in Canada, given the Canadian dollar strength?

I would tell you that it's probably not related to that as much. And if I ask my friend Gary to expand, I probably will tell you that it's mainly in the U.S. I would think.

Yeah it's mainly in the U.S., although there has been some in Canada. But I would tell you they are separate situations because of different market forces. But I mean it's nothing unusual and it comes and goes, and right now we got a little more of it in the second quarter. But as I said, it's nothing that we're overly concerned with in the long run.

Okay, so the U.S. competition in Canada has subsided?

Yes. I mean, it's always been what it is and there's been no different activity I guess.

And then, the second question I had was, in MD&A, just reading on the corporate reorganization in the Prairies, the warehouses being closed, just wondering if this is unique to Q2, or if this is expected to continue and how much should we expect it would cost?

Actually during Q2 – we had closed one in Q1 and we closed one in Q2, and moved another one in Q2. And in Q3 for Canada that should be about it. I would expect about maybe $150,000 in cost coming in during Q3 to finalize what we started in Q2.

And this reorganization, is it due to the ERP or just...

No, it's just a normal logistic streamlining that we're looking at really.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Jessy Hayem. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Richard, just on that same line of questioning, on normal logistics streamlining, is that what the $498,000 in additional expenses recorded this quarter referred to?

Yes. This is exactly it.

Okay, great. And then, I missed some of your comments. I believe you said that there were additional – you expected an additional $6 million in ERP-related costs over and above what you had already, I guess budgeted for?

You are right.

And how much of that will be expensed in 2011?

Probably none of it. $4 million would be capitalizable, $2 million would be expensed and that would be in 2012.

Okay, so then, we're still at about, expecting about $20 million in CapEx for this year, right?

Yeah, roughly you're right.

Okay, great. On to the EBITDA margin, again, being roughly flat year-over-year, what was the approximate, if you have it handy, the approximate contribution in basis points of the inventory gains that you captured in the second quarter? And is there more to come in the third quarter or have you pretty much used up those gains?

Well, basically there is always a few, but if I look at the overall between Canada and U.S. for the whole corporation, if I exclude the paint business, it's very little. My friend Denis tells me it's about 0.2% of revenues.

Okay, in the quarter, 0.2% from those special buys essentially?

That's right.

Okay, great. What are your expected store closures, be it Canada or U.S., excluding FinishMaster this year?

Maybe one or two.

Okay, great. Thank you very much. That rounds it out for me.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question is from Vincent Perri. Please go ahead.

Yes, good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Vincent.

Just a few quick questions. Just wanted to follow up on your debt levels. You were able to reduce that with some of the working capital we generated in the quarter. It seems that you're saying that you don't expect that to reverse. And in the last quarter, you did say that you were looking for – you're targeting the debt reduction about $40 million to $50 million and it looks like we've obtained that. Do you expect any further debt reductions here over the next two quarters?

I wish, but I would like to stay conservative in saying that I'm not expecting any more reduction.

Okay, but you don't expect the working capital requirements to reverse either?

Exactly.

If I understood you correctly.

Exactly. I mean the level of working capital that we do have right now should stay the same because – yeah.

Okay. And with respect to some of the new contracts that you've announced, you've talked about the Canadian Tire, but in the MD&A you also mentioned the Hydro-Quebec and some Gaz Metro contracts. Are those new incremental contracts and, if so, are they material? Can you quantify that?

Basically, Hydro-Quebec is an expansion of an existing contract and Gaz Metro is a new one and on an annual basis, Gary if I'm not mistaken, it's $2 million additional business that we are talking about here.

Approximately $2 million.

Okay, thank you. And in terms of the interest costs and depreciation that we recorded in the quarter, is this the kind of run rate that we could expect going forward?

Assuming that the interest rate goes up, yes.

Okay. That's it for me, gentlemen. Thank you.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question from Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Hi, gentlemen. Last question, but on the ERP, just wanted to know with things going very well and employees having been fully adapted and trained on the system, do you see any ERP benefits especially with you were mentioning before, more drop ship?

The more drop ship is not something that's coming from the ERP. That's really having adjusted the way we encourage our customers to come to market. At this stage with two warehouses implemented, it's still too early to see real benefits as of this time. We've seen a few benefits when we implemented the financials last year in terms of some streamlining of our back office operation. I will tell you, quoting one of our general manager who is now operating SAP in his region, that he does see some nice potential benefits in terms of better managing the business. But after two or three months of running a pilot program, it would be premature on my side to say that we already started seeing some benefits.

Would the drop ship diminish benefit if it grows?

I'm sorry, could you say again?

I'm just wondering if the ERP benefit and the drop ship have any kind of correlation or does ERP...

None whatsoever. They're not related at all.

Okay, I see. Perfect. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back over to you, Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much, Valerie. Well again, thank you very much for having joined us this afternoon and for the interest that you show in Uni-Sélect. I look forward to talk to you in November, early November when we'll be reporting on the third quarter results. In the meantime, again please do not forget to, if you have any interest, to write in your calendar the two investor days on September 26 and 27, where we will be taking some of you who have an interest for through our PB&E operations in both Canada and the U.S. With this wish you a good day and thank you again for having been with us. Goodbye.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for all your participation.