Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Manager-Investor Relations & Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Henry Buckley — Chief Operating Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Chief Financial Officer & EVP-Corporate Services, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Capital Markets
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Michael Glen — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All participants, we thank you for standing by. Your meeting is ready to begin. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the 2014 Third Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager of Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you, Rafael. Welcome to Uni-Select 2014 third quarter financial results conference call. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO. Also joining me this afternoon are Henry Buckley, COO of Uni-Select, Inc.; Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster; Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; and Brent Windom, President and COO, Automotive USA.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Securities Legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our most recent annual report available on SEDAR.

I will now turn the call over to Richard Roy, who will discuss key operational highlights for the quarter. He will be followed by Denis Mathieu, who will discuss our financial results. After the presentation, we will open the call up for questions. Richard?

Thank you very much, Karine. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I am overall pleased by our third quarter results and by the continued profitability growth displayed once again this quarter.

This performance is the direct result of the continued efforts deployed by our team since mid 2013 in executing our Action Plan. The path towards making Uni-Select a stronger, more flexible, and increasingly more efficient partner of choice across North America is well underway.

Since the implementation of our Action Plan 15 months ago, we have systematically recorded stronger profitability margins quarter-after-quarter. Our adjusted EBITDA margin is now getting closer to 7%; thanks to our numerous initiatives to improve our processes, control our expenses, and optimize our distribution network. We announced in Q3 the upcoming opening of a [ph] new store in (02:34) Avon, Massachusetts. The new facility slated to open early next year, will serve customers currently assigned to our Milford and Randolph warehouses, which will be closed. The very modern Avon warehouse will be more optimally located and will help us improve our efficiency, while offering an enhanced customer experience by carrying all essential and non-essential product lines in addition to providing overnight deliveries.

Also, as per the Action Plan, we have undertaken the optimization of 12 of our distribution centers. The investments of about $5.1 million will include duct reconfigurations to add shipping lanes, conveyor modifications to serve parcel-packaging stations, racking reconfigurations to optimize non-conveyable product locations, and high-moving parts relocation to improve picking.

We expect annualized benefits of approximately $1.6 million from those initiatives, which are already factored into the Action Plans' financial projections for 2015.

Operational improvements announced in Q3 also include the back-office optimization measures made possible by our recent technology investments, more specifically through our new ERP software of which we are still learning to take full advantage. Only nine months after the final ERP implementation, which was completed in the U.S., I am pleased to report that we are nearly half way through the $15 million EBITDA improvement forecast for 2016.

Let's now look at our topline performance in Q3. Sales growth was almost flat this quarter, a performance attributable to a declining Canadian dollar, the forecasted sales losses stemming from store and warehouse closures under our Action Plan, as well as more difficult comps.

In the U.S., organic growth reached 1.3%. We pursued our growth in the PBE, MSO category in our recruitment of jobbers and installers under our automotive banner program.

Our Canadian operations achieved 1.2% organic growth. When added on top of the strong 5.3% organic growth that we have recorded last year in the third quarter, the combined 6.5% increase over two years is a performance that which we are proud. Indeed, shop conversions to our new banner strategy continued to be successful, while our jobber development approach continues to bear fruits.

Looking ahead, while not losing sight of our profitability targets, we will focus even more aggressively on the acceleration of sales growth. We remain fully confident that our market share growth strategy remains the right one and that the sales programs in place are the most advantageous in the market for both our current and future customers. The entire management team is committed to converting these strategies into a renewed sales momentum across the organization.

Before handling it over to Denis, I would like to offer my full support to John Shannon and his team. John has been a member of Uni-Select for many, many years. Unfortunately, on October 16, his store located in Valleyfield, Quebec was completely ravaged by fire. By chance nobody was injured. But, unfortunately, the store and all of his merchandise were destroyed. I must say that I am very proud of our team who responded very fast on-site day one to help Auto Parts Plus Valleyfield to quickly resume operations in a temporary location. We wish John all the best.

I would also like to take a brief moment to extend a warm welcome to our new Chief Operating Officer, Henry Buckley, who joined the Uni-Select team about eight weeks ago. Henry, we are delighted to have you on board, and maybe this would be a good moment for you to say a few words and introduce yourself.

Thanks, Richard. It's truly a pleasure to be on board with the Uni-Select team. So over the past 60 days, [ph] I'm in businesses (06:58) in both the U.S. and Canada, and I see a lot of opportunity for us moving forward. So my intention over the coming weeks and months is to get out and see more customers and more team members.

Quite frankly, the focus for me over the coming weeks and months is simple, start work with businesses, work with all of our businesses to accelerate sales growth. Very simply we have to grow the topline. And secondly, work with our internal teams to optimize our processes and our network to improve our service levels to our customers.

So very simply put, those are the two things that I'm highly focused on over the coming weeks and months.

Thank you. Thank you very much Henry. Again, welcome; a great addition to our team. It's now time to go over the financial results. So, Denis, if you could please take us through those.

Good. Thank you, Richard, and good afternoon, everyone. The sales for the first – the fourth quarter – I'm sorry for the third quarter reached $465 million, a 0.2% increase over the same quarter last year. The organic growth of 1.3% and sales from recent acquisitions were almost entirely offset by the impact of the declining dollars, the Canadian dollars, and sales loss from store closures, which, by the way, is in line with the Action Plan.

EBITDA for the third quarter reached $30 million compared to $20 million last year. Adjusted EBITDA grew by 4.5% in the quarter to reach $31 million, while our adjusted EBITDA margin went from 6.5% to 6.8%, making it our fifth consecutive quarter of adjusted EBITDA margin improvement.

These improvements were mainly driven by $3.3 million in savings realized under the Action Plan and tighter control on expenses. These positive items were partially offset by an unfavorable distribution channel and customer mix and timing of marketing expenses versus last year.

Now, looking at our bottom line. Net earnings stood at almost $15 million compared to $14 million last year. Adjusted earnings for the quarter increased by 5.1% to $15.8 million, representing an adjusted earnings per share of $0.74 per share compared to $0.70 per share last year. When converted into Canadian dollars, adjusted earnings per share totaled C$0.80 per share in the – during the third quarter, up 9.6% compared to C$0.73 for the third quarter of last year.

Now, for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014, sales amounted to $1.360 billion, a slight decrease compared to 2013, which is mainly due to the sales loss from store closure combined to the negative impact of a weaker Canadian dollar. 2.2% organic growth in recent acquisitions partially offset this decline.

EBITDA for the nine-month period reached $78 million compared to $37 million last year, which I remind you, includes restructuring charges of $35 million before tax related to network optimization. Adjusted EBITDA grew by 9% to $83.6 million while our adjusted EBITDA margin went up from 5.6% to 6.2% over the Q3 last year. Savings derived from the Action Plans year-to-date totaled $12.7 million, in line with our forecast.

Net earnings for the period stood at almost $39 million compared to $11 million last year. Adjusted earnings totaled $42 million or $1.97 per share, a 12.6% increase over last year adjusted earnings per share of $1.75. Once again, expressed in Canadian dollar, Canadian currency, adjusted earnings reached C$2.16 per share, representing an increase of almost 21% year-over-year.

Since the beginning of the year, we generated $104 million in cash from operating activity compared to $88 million last year. Year-to-date, we reached – we reduced our debt by $57 million or more than 20% even after investing $17 million in net business acquisitions during the first half of 2014.

Our outstanding net debt stood now at $221 million at the end of the quarter. With the amount of capital investment reported in the fourth quarter; for example, the new warehouse in New England and new vehicles, we do not expect additional significant debt reduction in the fourth quarter.

Our debt-to-adjusted EBITDA stands at 2.05 times compared to 3.13 times at the end of the first quarter. If we include convertible debentures in our debt ratio, our ratio stands at 2.48 times, which is still below our March 31 ratio.

And, finally, the Board of Directors declared earlier today, a quarterly dividend of C$0.15 per share payable to shareholders on record on December 31, 2014.

So, Richard, this concludes my financial review. Back to you.

Thank you very much, Denis. As I said earlier, we are very pleased with our third quarter performance, which highlights the great achievement of our team. Our team also remains fully dedicated to offering a superior experience to our customers and to accelerate our sales growth by recruiting customers, intensifying enrollment to our banner programs, leverage business opportunities in the paint distribution sector and improve our product offering.

We also intend to continue to improve adjusted EBITDA margin by taking advantage of the Action Plan and ongoing cost reduction initiatives by leveraging our ERP and by improving the overall buying and selling conditions. Thanks to our talented team, we will continue to prove to independent wholesalers, installers and collision repair operators that we are their partner of choice, and that we can offer them a second to none support in helping them grow their business.

Finally, I would like to thank all of our shareholders for their continued support. We are now ready to answer your questions. Rafael?

Thank you. We will now take questions from the telephone lines. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Benoit Poirier. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, guys – good afternoon, sorry. And congratulations for the good quarter.

Thank you, Benoit.

Just to come back on the organic growth rate, obviously, the Canadian dollar impact of 1.3%, so once you strip that out, you become closer to 2.6%. Just wondering if there is any thought once you compare this 2.6% versus what peers have been reporting so far, would derive almost an average of 4.5%. So is there anything to highlight on that side?

Yeah. Well, basically, a couple of elements there worth noted. It's a fact that the month of July in Canada was very weak overall. It came back very strong in August, but we had a poor beginning of the quarter. But fact of the matter is, we were also comparing to a more difficult comp last year. We had two stores or three stores that came on line during the quarter, which really gave rise to very large initial orders.

And the other element also is that our sales show that we hold every year in October in the Province of Quebec here was held at a one week later during the quarter. So basically, some of the orders that we got could not get shipped and invoiced until early October.

So that really explains a little bit what the lower sales or comparable increase in sales for the quarter.

What I will tell you, though, is that we remain very confident. We still have very good growth overall in Canada for the year. And we remain confident for the fourth quarter that the organic growth will be there.

Okay. And when I look at last year's Q4, the organic growth was very solid in the U.S. and Canada; it was almost 5.5% on a consolidated basis. And given that the Canadian dollar, right now where it stands; is it fair to say that you'll still be facing some tough compares or – in terms of organic growth for Q4, Richard?

It is fair to say that. Actually, even if we exclude the impact of the currency, it will be – it will still be a fairly steep comparable – comparative sales for the previous – the fourth quarter last year. But we certainly expect to do – certainly in Canada to have good organic growth anyway.

Okay.

But the exchange rate will be – will continue to be a factor going against our topline.

Okay. And just in terms of free cash; obviously, very strong performance in the last two quarters. I've just noticed that the accounts payable were up almost $20 million. Denis mentioned that we should not expect a significant debt reduction. So just wondering what we could expect next year whether – sorry, in Q4, just in terms of overall working cap inventory reduction and free cash flow generation? Should we be a little bit less positive given the strong performance in Q2 and Q3?

Denis, you want to answer that?

Yes. Benoit, over and above, the cash flow generated by the operations, we believe that we're going to be able to improve again our working capital by approximately $20 million. And all the improvement will come from inventory reduction.

We still have – you probably noticed in the press release that the famous metrics that we are providing, probably noticed that we are shy in term of reducing our inventory by $20 million. So it's not over. As you know, we still have one warehouse to open and two warehouse, three warehouse to close.

So by doing so, we can expect that in the first half of 2015, we're going to be able to reduce the total inventory and reduce the working capital by approximately $20 million. So over and above, the cash generated by the operations, you can add approximately $20 million.

Okay. But mostly in the first half of 2015, right? Not Q4 2014?

Yes, sir. I mean Q4...

Okay, perfect. That's great. And obviously, when we look at your cash position, funded debt, EBITDA well below your target of 3.5 times now close to 2 times. So any thought about cash deployment opportunities you see these days? And what you believe is the most interesting for shareholders?

Well, basically with a financial position that's really backed and even better than where we were for the last few years, we're actually back to the level where we were in 2008. We feel very comfortable in looking at the opportunities that we have in the marketplace. And whether that's in Canada or the U.S., we see opportunities for additional acquisitions which we've been – we've done a few early in 2014, and we're looking at that. And we do believe that this would be always being selective and following our filter, we do see a lot of opportunities shaping up there.

Okay, thanks. I'll jump back in the queue.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you. The next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hello, Cheung.

Afternoon.

Hi. My first question just relates to the Action Plan. When I look at the metrics that you mentioned, it seems for the plan, sales erosion is coming in better than expected, cost savings are coming in ahead of schedule. So – and I was just wondering, what's – what is it that's really sort of pushing out the schedule, now that you expect to finalize the plan in, I guess, first half of 2015 as opposed to end of 2014?

Well, basically, I would tell you, there's two elements. And the first element is just within logistical. The warehouse that we were to open in the last quarter will be the new warehouse and Avon will be opened in mid-January. And, quite frankly, our manufacturer for the racking is a little bit worried that whether or not we will be able to deliver under the planned schedule.

We are experiencing a slight technical delay there. And unfortunately, then you have the Christmas holiday and so on and so forth. So we decided that it probably was safer to postpone that move to the middle of January. That way we would not affect the service level that we offer to our customers, which is really the job number one that we want to have there.

So that's number one and that's probably the most important element. But again, instead of doing that move in December, we'll do it in January. And the two other warehouses will be closed very shortly after that.

The second element is really the work – the streamlining of the work in the 12 distribution centers that I was alluding to early in my presentation. This was the last element of our plan that we have scheduled for the tail end of our plan, and we've delayed it a little bit, because, as you can see, we're delivering the EBITDA improvement that we were planning on the plan originally even before we attacked that last element. And that last element was the one with the slowest payback.

So quite frankly, we went into a little bit more in depth with the other elements, which allow us to be on track with the EBITDA improvement even before we have attacked that last element. So that last element is being worked on as we speak, it's begun, but it will be completed somewhere in the April to June timeline.

Okay. That's very helpful. So, I mean, just with respect to that and I'm assuming that we can shift some of our CapEx expectations from Q4 2014 to, I guess, early 2015?

Yeah, Denis?

Yeah. You're perfectly right. If you recall, I said that the -technically this year we were supposed to invest $30 million, and I mentioned to some of you that next year it would be $25 million. Fortunately, I mean, the good news is that this year we're going to spend only $25 million, that's good for the debt; but next year, instead of $25 million, we increased our needs to $30 million now. So there is a $5 million postpone from the fourth quarter this year to the first half of next year.

And it is related to that and other initiatives also.

Okay. And just my last question. I guess, moving on, you touched on this earlier, which is related to the inventory expectations. Can you talk about, I guess – so far this quarter – historically, I've seen you guys take advantage of some, like inventory discounts and buying upfront towards the end of the year. Is that something you would expect this year or should we not expect that as you guys try to work down inventory?

No, you should expect that in the fourth quarter, and that's why we – quite frankly, we do not believe that inventories will go down in the fourth quarter. We will have some inventory reductions related to the further execution of our Action Plan in the U.S., but these will be compensated by price protection, special buys, that we will have in the fourth quarter, almost in equal amount.

Yeah. Okay. That makes a lot more sense. Okay, great. I will jump back into the queue.

Thank you, Otto.

Thanks.

The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Hello.

Hello, Sara.

Can you comment on the gross margin impact. There was some commentary about unfavorable distribution channel and competitive mix. Can you just give a little bit more granularity around that?

Yes. Sure. Well, basically when we look at the distribution channel, basically we're referring to the fact that, again in this quarter, in mainly our U.S. parts sales, we've got about 1.8% more in sales that are done on a direct shipment basis; about 20.2% against 18.4% during the third quarter.

That's very much in line with – in terms of progression. That's what we had in the previous quarter. It's not more. It's actually slightly less than Q2; but the differential is the same. Actually, year-to-date, we're running direct shipments in the U.S. at about 20.9% of our jobber sales compared to 19.5% a year before.

The other element is really the fact that we are increasing our share of the business with PBE, MSOs in the U.S., which is really a wonderful positioning that we have. Because we all know that there is a lot of consolidation between the collision repair shops and the MSOs are really those who are emerging with the lion's share of the market. And we are extremely well-positioned with our footprint and the quality of our service to basically serve those customers.

So we now have a larger portion of our U.S. business that's done with MSOs. And the flip side is that, given that these are large accounts, the gross margin is lower on those accounts now. At the same time, also the cost to serve those accounts is also lower, which really is allowing us to maintain the overall EBITDA margin on that. But you've got to be careful to provide them with the service level that is warranted under the agreement for the kind of gross margin that we earn on that.

So when you look at the margin, that's really, I would tell you, the two main elements when we're talking about the channels and so on and so forth in the customer mix that affects the gross margin negatively.

Okay. Thanks. And then can you just remind us where are you on direct shipment in Canada as a percentage of sales?

Okay. Direct shipments in Canada is always pretty much stable in the 49% to 50% range; and that's been unchanged for several years.

Okay.

But we're not expecting to be at that level in U.S., as we previously explained.

That's right.

Okay.

If you remember, in previous meetings I've mentioned that we have done our network optimization assuming that the direct shipments in the U.S. would go probably to 25% within our parts business. And we're still at the 20% to 21% range right now.

So if we take it up, another 500 basis points; what's the negative impact to your gross margin that would be expected?

I don't have that figure right now, but I'll tell you something is, we are improving and reducing the warehousing cost in such a way right now that the impact is not going to be as significant as it was last year and the year before.

Okay.

By the way, for the moment, I have no indications that we'll even get to 25%. It's been stable at 21% all through the year, this year.

Okay. Good to know. Can you comment also just on the usage of your vendor financing program. There's still room available on that. I just wonder what would allow you to go and use it structurally even more versus staying where you are now, and is 80 days accounts payable kind of the way to look at your working capital going forward?

Denis?

Sara, it's a very, very good question. It's always a question of negotiation with our suppliers. But more importantly, the suppliers decide if they want to use it or not. And what we've done, we gave the choice to the suppliers. Either they are providing us better terms, payment terms, it could be 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, doesn't matter; or they go with our vendor financing program.

And during the last, I would say, I mean, during the last two quarters, three quarters, a lot of our suppliers decided to gave us directly better payment terms. So we didn't have to use the excess capacity, because, if you recall, we increased that credit facility earlier in – I think, in the first quarter. And so far, we didn't have to use it because of the fact that they – the suppliers decided to gave us better payment terms directly.

Okay. So, I mean, if we look at – I mean, because the accounts payable days were up in the quarter; is that sort of a go-forward level, or is it going to vary throughout the year?

No, it's really flat because of those new terms, payment terms we got. So I would say, most of the additional accounts payable we got in the quarter is directly related to the new negotiations we got with the suppliers.

Okay.

So we're pretty much at level.

Okay. And then maybe just lastly on acquisitions. You commented, obviously, with your balance sheet in good shape, looking at opportunities. I mean, in the consolidating market now, I mean, do you see the U.S. as – again, I'm assuming there is a lot of sellers looking for better pricing now? I'm just wondering in terms of the pipeline of opportunities you're looking at, are you finding it more difficult to get good value on acquisitions that you're looking at or is it same as always?

No, not really, Sara. We see opportunities on both sides of the boarders, whether that's in the U.S. or in Canada. As I mentioned earlier, on the PBE side, multiple tends to be a little bit higher than on the part side. But we do see opportunities right now. Several of them are necessarily that large, but they certainly will help in our desire to increase the density of our operations in several markets where we would like to generate even more logistic synergies. And there is – and so, we see a lot of opportunities available to us right now.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Michael Glen. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Michael.

Just on the working capital; over the past two quarters, it's been a positive inflow, about $40 million. How do you think that's going to shakeout in Q4? Will it be a further inflow or do you expect to get maybe a bit of that back?

A couple of things. First of all, the fourth quarter is always lower than the third quarter. So for sure, our account receivables will reduce a bit in the same way it used to be. As I mentioned, inventory won't change that much because of some incentive program that we do have, and also the fact that we're targeting to try to reduce inventory. But that should not have any major impact. And accounts payable, technically, should not change neither. So I'm not expecting major improvement or deterioration of the working capital in the fourth quarter.

And, for sure, as I mentioned earlier, in the first half of 2015, I already mentioned that we will – we should deteriorate the working cap by $20 million; meaning that, at the end of the day, it will improve the – it would be a debt reduction of $20 million, an additional $20 million.

Okay.

Because of the fact that we're going to reduce the inventory.

Okay. Can you also just clarify your expected tax rate for 2014?

I mean, a very good question. You probably noticed that our tax rate is – from quarter to quarter is more consistent than it used to be. We used there some major variations. Now at 18% to 20%, it's more consistent with what we are looking for the future, at least for the fourth quarter.

Now, with respect to next year, considering the fact that most of the improvements will come from – in term of profitability will come from the U.S. and the tax rate being higher in the U.S., we are anticipating that the tax rate for next year will be closer to 22%, 23%.

Okay.

So basically what you're looking at is a higher tax rate in Q4 this year in line with the other three quarters, but higher than the Q4 of last year.

Exactly.

Okay. I understand.

And – sorry.

Go ahead.

No. Go ahead. Sorry.

Okay. And with the leverage where it is right now, do you think that you'll be inclined to get more aggressive in terms of the share buybacks?

I would not say so. I would think that with all the opportunities that we have in the marketplace to deploy capital there and earn a good return, that probably would be a very good use for that. And so that – I would tell you, I'm not precluding any opportunistic share buyback if we have some opportunities there, but that's not going to be the primary use of our cash going forward.

Okay. And just – when we look at the quarter upcoming; obviously, it stepped up for the industry as a whole. Have you guys thought of any initiatives that you're going to look to pursue it if trends from a weather standpoint should start to soften through the quarter relative to last year, of course?

Denis?

Can you clarify your thought?

Like last year, the industry benefited as a whole from adverse weather conditions in Northeastern U.S. in particular. So do you guys have any plans in place if the weather works against you this year to keep yourselves robust?

Well, the weather is always something that is totally unpredictable. So we don't know what's really going to happen even though last year with the very harsh winter conditions we lost some sales day where we just could not be on the roads and ship.

So this being said, Michael, what I will tell you is that – Henry mentioned – it's earlier – he is very much focused with the team on sales initiatives and we have already improved fill rate service levels to our customers. So we have several initiatives ongoing with recruitment and so on and so forth to ensure better sales. So that's really where we are. And to paraphrase my Chairman, my boss, he was saying, you know when it rains or when it snows, it snows on both sides of the street. So my competitors have the same issue as we do, so we just go forward and plan ahead.

Okay. And just on the EBITDA margin for 2015, you had previously talked about a 7% margin target. Does that still hold right now?

We're still going for that obviously. We're also looking to improve our performance sale-wise, which certainly will be one of the element that will help us achieve that 7%.

Okay. Thanks.

Welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Anthony.

Good afternoon. Richard, can you give us a bit of an idea in terms of your new commercial credit facility? How much lower the interest rate is? And how much could we save going forward?

If you don't mind, I will ask Denis to fill that one.

Thank you. But I don't know and I'm just kidding. Tony, just – the goal – we had very, very good terms – not terms but very good rate. It was on market. So the only – the purpose of doing that was mainly to extend it by almost 18 months from January 2017 to June 2018, and that's the main goal.

In term of savings over the time, we're talking only $0.50 million. So it's probably only $100,000 for next year. It's not that much. The goal was really to extend the good terms that we used to have.

Okay. Good. And with reference to competitive landscape, U.S. and Canada; could you give us a bit of color on that and a second part to that question. If you look at Advance Auto's acquisition of Carquest, has there been any impact on Uni-Select in terms of being either positive or negative?

Okay. Well, basically in terms of the overall market, I will tell you that it remains competitive obviously, I'm not telling you anything that you don't – already know very well. [ph] Can't see (38:51) that it's more competitive or less or whatever. So it's really a market-by-market. And overall, it's very similar to the conditions that we have been meeting for the last year or so or even the couple of last years.

If you look at the M&A aspect that our competitors did, it did offer, and is now beginning to offer even a little bit more opportunities, in the sense that, some decisions are being made. That will open up some opportunities for us.

Okay. And did you see any dissections come over from...?

Yes. Yes. We have seen some. Yes we have.

So you're seeing a bit of positive and...

A little bit of positive. And hopefully, they will be a little bit more positive. But until it's signed, sealed and delivered, I don't want to talk about it.

Okay. And do you anticipate any inflation or any deflation on certain products or...?

Other than the paint [ph] were a good (39:51) year after – year-after-year there is anywhere between, what 3% and 4%, Steve, increase I would say. On the parts, we don't foresee an inflation. Maybe a little bit in Canada on account of exchange rate variance, but certainly not in the U.S.

Okay. And, Richard, one last question. From your experience in this business – we've seen of course a big major drop in oil pricing and fuel prices, do you think that this is going to be a good tailwind going forward as consumers drive more and more wear and tear on vehicles?

I would tell you that it certainly is not a headwind. It's a very favorable development and we – certainly it's – when you look at past trends, when the price of fuel has gone down, miles driven have gone up, and that's always good for us.

If I want to be the guy who looks at the glass half empty as opposed to half full, I will tell you that there is some of our markets that are heavily relying on oil and gas exploration activity that I believe will probably be affected negatively also. But all-in-all, it's probably more of a tailwind than a headwind.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Leon.

Richard, one quick follow-up. You were mentioning some of the inflation on paint there. My question was regarding the organic growth between the paints versus the parts. Can you provide a bit of a breakdown there?

No. We're not publishing the breakdown for that. But I think it's probably not going to surprise anybody. And we don't do it for competitive reasons. But we're doing better on the paint side than we are on the part side.

Okay. And then on the foreign nameplates, can you at least provide maybe a bit of a color there as to how that's working out?

Well, our Beck/Arnley division has experienced very nice organic growth overall selling to Uni-Select customers through Uni-Select and also to non-Uni-Select customers, because this is a brand that we market throughout North America.

So we're doing – we're satisfied with what we've done with the – in the parts for import vehicles, the foreign nameplates as we call them. Now, there is still a lot of room to continue to grow.

Okay. And if I could just quickly, just jump back to my previous question regarding the paints. You were mentioning that some of the growth, I guess, is coming through inflation. I mean, how much of the organic growth within the paint segment is organic – pardon me, is volume-driven versus price-driven?

You have a lot of volume-driven growth also; it's not only organic – it's not only price-driven.

Okay. Thank you. That's it.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I'd like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much, Rafael. And I want to thank you for your presence on this call this afternoon and also for your interest in our organization. Again, we remain committed to create additional value for our customers, our team members, and also our shareholders. So we will be talking to you in the mid-February, a little bit earlier than usual for the publication of our year-end results.

So thank you very much to all of you and look forward to talk to you in a couple of months. Take care.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time and we thank you for your participation.