Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Manager-Investor Relations & Communications, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President, CEO & Non-Independent Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Chief Financial Officer & EVP-Corporate Services, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Brent Windom — Senior Vice President-Sales & Marketing, Uni-Select USA, Inc.
Steve Arndt — President and Chief Operating Officer, FinishMaster Inc., Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Benoit Poirier — Analyst, Desjardins Securities, Inc.
Leon Aghazarian — Analyst, National Bank Financial Brokers
Sara O'Brien — Analyst, RBC Dominion Securities, Inc.
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Anthony Zicha — Analyst, Scotia Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the 2000 (sic) [2014] (00:08) Second Quarter Results Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager-Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thanks, Paul. Welcome to Uni-Sélect 2014 second quarter financial results conference call. The speakers today will be Richard Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Executive Vice President, Corporate Services and CFO. Also joining me this afternoon are Steve Arndt, President and COO of FinishMaster; Gary O'Connor, President and COO, Automotive Canada; and Brent Windom, President and COO, Automotive USA.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Securities Legislation. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information. For details, please refer to our disclaimer regarding forward-looking information in our most recent annual report available on SEDAR.

I will now turn the call over to Richard Roy, who will discuss key operational highlights for the quarter. He will be followed by Denis Mathieu, who will discuss our financial results. After the presentation, we will open the call to questions. Richard?

Thank you, Karine. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. I'm pleased to report another improved quarter for Uni-Sélect with increased sales, EBITDA and net earnings. We entered the second quarter knowing that we should incur sales losses due to the forecasted store closures under our action plan. I'm glad to report today that the success of our various sales initiatives and a strong commitment on execution by our team and they will – enabled us to overcome those losses and to deliver an overall sales growth this quarter.

This growth was mainly fueled by our Canadian operations up 6.8% organically. The results of our U.S. operations up 1.3% on an organic basis came in below our expectations as a result of a temporary non-recurring inventory management issue causing lower than usual fill rates for the month of April and May. The issue was rapidly identified and efficient corrective measures implemented. As of today, the rates have returned to their historical levels and that is behind us.

We continued putting emphasis on our sales programs and rolled out new ones in specific markets to build additional loyalty and volume from our existing customers while attracting new ones. On both sides of the border, these programs are yielding positive results and has continued to play a key role in our strong commitment towards long term sustainable growth.

In Canada, our independent wholesalers continue to add new stores, which translate into positive growth. Shop conversions to our New Banner Strategy has started and addition levels are very positive. We are also pleased with the sales resulting from our agreement with the Collision Solutions Network signed last year. Serving this important aggregate of collision repair shops bring attractive value to our Canadian customers.

In the U.S., FinishMaster continues to grow its market share, including the MSO segment, which is on the rise and promising for the future. Our [ph] U.S. SPAR (03:53) distribution activities proposed an improved independent jobber program to increase sales in that segment of the business.

I'm also pleased to state that our new ERP software is delivering the expected results so far. With its implementations complete, we were able to improve ordering processes and e-connectivity applications, feature – a feature which was warmly welcomed by our customers as they know – they now have easy access to and better visibility on the inventory in our network.

We also fully integrated the activities of all the acquisitions done during the first half of this year, including the latest acquisition, J.K. Distributors, concluded on April. We consolidated some locations, converted the stores to our banners, converted systems and change product lines all of that within a very short window.

Over the course of the second quarter, we also continued the implementation of our action plan which I am proud to say is proceeding on target, delivering the projected improvements in EBITDA. Since it was introduced a year ago, we recorded $22.4 million in the recurring improvements. We are also in line with our forecast in terms of sales erosion and inventory reduction.

In the quarter, we closed one store and our team continued to work on the upcoming opening of our new warehouse scheduled for Q4. In addition, we continued reengineering delivery, controlling cost and reducing head count as well as implementing initiatives to improve store profitability.

Before handing it over to Denis, I would like to thank the members of the Uni-Sélect team who are the driving force behind our successes. They have once again demonstrated their talent and commitment towards our success and have shown their ability to succeed in this competitive marketplace through innovation and superior quality customer service. We are fortunate to count on such a great team. Denis?

Thank you, Richard. Sales for the quarter reached $479 million, a 0.5% increase over the same quarter last year. Organic growth of 2.9% has been partially offset by the declining Canadian dollar and by one less billing day in Canada while sales loss from store closure in line with the action plan were partially offset by sales from recent acquisitions.

EBITDA for the second quarter reached $30 million compared to negative $7 million last year. 2013 second quarter last year, I mean include a $35 million mainly related to restructuring charges. So adjusted EBITDA grew by 6.8% in the quarter to reach $31 million while our adjusted EBITDA margin recorded an increase of 300 basis points from 6.2% to 6.5%.

These improvements were mainly driven by $3.8 million in savings realized under the action plan. The increase also came from organic growth improving fixed-cost leverage and tighter control on expenses. These favorable items were partially offset by unfavorable distribution channel and customer mix.

Now, looking at our bottom-line, net earnings stood at $15.5 million compared to a net loss of $9.3 million in 2013. Adjusted earnings for the quarter stood at $16.5 million or $0.77 per share or 6.9% increase over the $0.72 per share reported last year. When converted to Canadian dollar, adjusted earnings per share totals CAD0.84 for 2014 second quarter, up 15% compared to CAD0.73 in 2013.

Now, for the six months period ended June 30, sales amount to $892 million this year, a slight decrease compared to last year, which is mainly attributable to sales loss from stores closure, combined with a negative impact of a lower Canadian dollar, a 2.3% organic growth and recent acquisitions partially offset this decline.

EBITDA for the six months period reached $48 million compared to $9 million total last year, which I remind you included restructuring charges as indicated earlier. So adjusted EBITDA grew by 12% to $52 million while our adjusted EBITDA margin went from 5.2% to 5.8%. In addition to the factors mentioned for the quarter, our results for the six-month period were impacted by higher utilities causes by weather conditions across North America during the first quarter. Savings derived from action plans for the six months period totaled $9.4 million.

Net earnings for the period stood at almost $24 million compared to a net loss of $3 million last year. Adjusted earnings totaled $26 million or $1.23 per share, a 17% increase over the last year adjusted earnings per share of the $1.45. Once again, expressed in Canadian currency, adjusted earnings were CAD28.8 million or CAD1.35 per share, an increase of [ph] 23% (09:51) for six months.

Since the beginning of the year, we generated $37 million in free cash flow compared to $31 million last year. As we improve earnings and manage our working capital, we were able to reduce our total net debt from operations by $36 million since the beginning of the year, out of which $18 million was used to acquire businesses for a net debt reduction of $18 million.

Our debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio for bank covenant purposes stand at 2.35 times compared to 2.86 times at the end of the first quarter. We achieved our objective to be under the 2.5 ratio before the end of the year and we are committed to continue to improve such ratio in the coming months. Now, if we include convertible debentures in our debt, our ratio stands at 2.75 times still below March level of – March 31's ratio.

So, Richard, that concludes my financial review.

Thank you very much, Denis. Our 2014 second quarter proved again the efficiency and soundness of our action plan, the positive contribution of our new ERP software, our ability to control cost in our dedication to increase sales. The important benefits that we yield under these major initiatives all contributed to make Uni-Sélect and even more competitive and [indiscernible] (11:25) distributor in North America.

In the coming months, we will remain focused on improving our profitability and efficiency, and more importantly, accelerate organic growth across all of our markets. We will continue to prove to independent wholesalers, installers, and collision repair operators that we are their partner of choice and that we can offer them a second to none support in helping them grow their businesses.

Before I conclude, I'd like to announce that the board of directors approved today the creation of a new Chief Operating Officer position reporting to me. We will be able to introduce this new COO shortly.

We're now ready to answer your questions. Paul?

Thank you very much. We will now take questions from the telephone line. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from Benoit Poirier, please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, Richard. Good afternoon, Denis.

Good afternoon, Benoit.

Just first question, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what do you see right now in the U.S. Just looking at the organic growth rate 1.3% versus peers that we're averaging close to 5.4% in the quarter. So just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the competitive landscape in the U.S.?

Basically the competitive landscape in the U.S. has not changed much over the last quarters, it's very similar to what it has been. We did experience, unfortunately, some technical issues that led to lower fill rates during two months of the three months of the quarter. And we believe that this certainly has played a bit of role in the lower organic growth rate that we have experienced during the quarter. Thankfully, we have corrected that and we've been back in business at the right fill rate level and customer service and hopefully that's all behind us.

Okay. And as you said was it related more to the ERP system and do you think it could maybe create some pent-up demand for the third quarter?

No, it was not related to the ERP system, it was something much more basic that I'm not really willing to discuss, but it was not systems related. As far as pent-up demand is concerned, I would not go and endorse for it because you know our business very well and you know if one day you can't meet the demand, unfortunately the business is pretty much gone. So I would not go there.

Okay. And just for the new organizational structure, could you maybe discuss what you are looking for in terms of abilities for the CEO (sic) [COO] (14:52)?

Well basically, we're looking for that COO with good leadership qualities I would tell you that this is definitely one of the basic need that we have there and good knowledge of industrial distribution business.

Okay. And for the latest three acquisitions you've done could you talk a little bit, I would assume that the integration is mostly behind and whether you see other M&A opportunities for the second half this year?

Okay. Yeah, definitely all the acquisitions that were done in early 2014 had been fully integrated as we speak including integrations of warehouses or even merging some of their locations, their branches, systems, people, product lines where it applicable and so on and so forth. And that is – so we're very, very happy with that. And I might say that this is certainly one area where our new technology is helping us integrate faster and more deeply. As far as M&A coming for the future, you know that we don't really comment on that. We are working on some opportunities. We're looking at some of the stiff. When it will come and when it will be obviously – and you've heard me say that before M&A is a little bit like going fishing. You put your line in the lake, but you don't know what kind of catch you will have and what the size will be and then when it would like, so.

Okay. And maybe last question, just in terms of the EBITDA margin, I was just wondering whether you're still confident to reach 7% next year?

That is still our targets. There is no doubt about that. That's what we're working towards.

Okay. Thanks for the time.

Thank you, Benoit.

Thank you. The next question is from the Leon Aghazarian. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon. My first question is...

Good afternoon.

My first question is regarding the organic growth, you mentioned in the press release that your primary focus is going to be about accelerating organic sales growth. I just want to see what makes kind of say that is it more because of new initiatives, is it because you're seeing a faster industry recovery? And then the second question to that is – second part to that is, accelerating versus what exactly? Is it versus the quarter itself or versus I guess just a general expectation?

It's accelerating versus our past quarter, because obviously it's – we'd like to do even better than that. And when the focus basically is two pronged. One of the basis of that, as I said, is we have recovered from a temporary drop in our service level, which generally will bring additional sales, but we're also has been continuing to work on some sales program. We've added some people also to support our colleague, Brent Windom in the management of the sales and the operation and the operations of our U.S. operation, so that's really what we've done. I will remind you, as we stated in previous calls, that our long-term objective and our medium term – call it as you want is to beat market growth, which AAIE is predicting to be anywhere between 3% and 4%. And quite frankly, we won't be happy and we won't until we can beat that.

Thanks, that's helpful. Yeah, you also mentioned that the second quarter was softer than expected in terms of sales growth. Is that related to the earlier point you made about lower fill rates or is that more of a Canadian and U.S. focus or was it just something specific?

No, it's totally related to that – to that fill rate issue.

Okay. And then final one from me before I circle back is in terms of the usage of cash, I mean, the focus what is that in terms of priority? I mean, in terms of better reduction, first of all, or is it in terms of CapEx because as we see in the executive summary your CapEx plan for 2014 is around $9 million or so. And I mean so far we see that only very little has been realized there. So should we expect more CapEx in the latter half of the year?

Yeah, you should expect more CapEx in the second half of the year because, quite frankly, the opening of the new warehouse that we have planned will take place in Q4, so most of the spending will be taking place in Q3 and Q4 for that one. We've also talked about the streamlining of some of our existing warehouses. The work is in process, it's being planned. So there should be some additional capital expenditure is coming during the third quarter and fourth quarter under realization of those elements. This being said whether or not we end up spending the whole amount is we're still taking a second look at that. And if we adjust this downward, we will be coming back to you. In the coming and – in the last second half of the year, we will also be expanding our warehouses in Dallas and that will give rise to some additional capital expenditures also.

And Leon, if I may, you are referring only to the action plan, because don't forget that we do have also other additional such as you know delivery of vehicles and so on. So overall, our target is still $28 million to $30 million for the year. So we already spent $8 million so far – almost $9 million so far. So you should plan for an additional $20 million for the second half of the year, including the action plan. The amount that we – Richard mentioned.

Thank you. That's very helpful.

Thank you. The next question is from Sara O'Brien. Please go ahead.

Hello, good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Sara.

Can you talk a little bit about the gross margin impact in the MD&A, you talked about distribution channel and the customer mix. Can you just give a little bit more clarity on what's putting the pressure on there?

Yes. Basically, when we were talking about distribution channel, we're talking about mainly in the U.S., the drop shipment went up slightly to about 22% for the quarter of U.S. parts shipments was through the drop shipment route which is slightly higher from previous quarters. And when we're talking about the customers, we're also talking lot of their business that is coming in is large customers including the multi-shop operators on the collision repair side where typically the gross margin is lower there. Now the cost to serve those large customers is also lower, which helps us maintain the operating margin. But if you look at the gross margin in isolation, it does have a negative impact there.

Okay. And then in terms of the operating leverage that you're getting off the very solid growth in Canada, is that driving your EBITDA margin up significantly? I'm just wondering how much of the improvement is from Canada versus the U.S.?

It's pretty much stable, slightly higher in Canada, but the – a lot of the operation is coming from – the improvement is also coming from the U.S.

Okay. And then maybe on free cash flow, it does sound like there is still some pretty big CapEx in the back half of the year, but with the inventory reduction program, are you expecting to be significantly higher on free cash flow in 2014 versus last year?

I think you are perfectly right. We mentioned to you that our goal was to be below the threshold of 2.5 times EBITDA. We're already at 2.35 times, so we already achieved our goal after the first half. So now, I don't have any choice, [indiscernible] (23:27) my forecast to mention that we're going to be close to 2 times EBITDA.

Assuming there is no acquisition.

You're perfectly right. Thank you.

Okay. And acquisition wise just because as you were mentioning them, still tuck-in focused and U.S. warehouse focused or is there another opportunity either in Canada or in something to go with FinishMaster?

There is opportunities in FinishMaster. There is opportunities in Canada, and there is opportunities in the U.S. parts business. What we're looking at right now is mainly I would say tuck-in and complement to existing footprint.

Okay.

That's a better way to leverage our structure also.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon. My first question just relates to the action plan. The cost savings you guys have realized so far today has sort of I guess from my standpoint runs a little ahead of your plan – from your action plan. And I was just wondering your sales erosion where you haven't seen as much of – can you maybe comment on or if you're expecting sales erosions as maybe accelerate in the second half of the year, or is there a potential that you could just revise your estimates lower?

Brent, you want to field that question?

Well, just two things I would say that we're certainly aligned to achieve all of our expectations of the benefits of the plan. We're ahead of it as you've mentioned. And I think for sales erosion, we have been very successful in the markets of retaining some of the business that as we exit that we were able to move it to existing or other locations. And we continue to see that sort of holding steady for the second half of the year, certainly that's our goal right now.

Otto if I may add is, last quarter what we have said was that there could be a little bit more erosion going forward. But we will – we believe that we probably would be a little shy of this $70 million overall and we continue to feel that way.

Okay. That's fair. That's very helpful. And I guess just following on with the U.S. side of the business, I mean, this maybe a difficult question to answer, but with the organic growth of 1.3% and including some of these non-reoccurring inventory issues that you mentioned, are you able to provide what I guess, if ex these issues would it be like a 2% growth rate, 3% growth rate. Can you comment on that?

It's very difficult because you're asking me to speculate...

Yeah.

... what the organic growth rate would have been without some of those fill rate issues. So I don't really want to go there.

Okay. No, that's fair. Okay, and my next question, just with respect to the debt, I know Denis you mentioned that I guess your new target is going to be about two times EBITDA by the end of the year, but with the lower leverage and I guess would there be any consideration that you guys maybe a little bit more aggressive on your share buyback given with the share prices today?

At the price it is right now, I could not agree more with you.

Okay. Okay, that's fair. And my last question, just relates to the overall I guess consolidation of the overall industry in the U.S. I mean do you guys view this as a positive or negative given some of your, I guess major competitors are, I guess joining forces that you can see in commentary and that would be helpful.

Well, what I will tell you is when there is changes, there is always opportunity. And even though I don't want to go too much in detail with that, but we have been successful in recruiting some new business away from some of the people who have done major transactions in the past. So every time that this happens, it opens up possibilities. I would tell you that overall the market continues to be competitive, the way it was for the last couple of years, there's not that much that has changed on that side.

Okay. Okay. That's all I had for now. Thank you.

Thank you, Otto.

Thank you. The next question is from Anthony Zicha. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon, Tony.

Can you talk – can you provide us some more color on the U.S. organic growth considering that was a tough winter. Were you satisfied with the level you achieved and do you think that there is more pent-up demand that will rollover into Q3 considering was a real tough winter once the ideal conditions, but?

We're not – we're certainly not satisfied with the organic growth that we have experienced in the U.S. That's for sure. And what I will tell you is that we've had – as I mentioned, we've had let's call technical issues that have basically presented us from meeting our full potential there. So I do believe that we should be experimenting better organic growth than what we have demonstrated in Q1 and Q2.

So – and what about July you get on indications, and how it performed relative to a year ago?

It's not complete yet. So I would tell you – I haven't really looked at last year. I'm looking really at what my forecast and all of that is doing. So for the moment, I would rather not give you an answer without double-checking.

Okay. In overall business, was there any inflation. In the paints we heard chemicals has been going up. So has there been any price increases during the quarter or do you anticipate any price increases for the second half of the year?

You are talking about specifically about paint. I think I heard that...

No.

No?

Overall, maybe if you want to mention the...

Overall, in the parts business in the U.S., absolutely no inflation whatsoever. We have seen a little bit of inflation in Canada due to some manufacturers adjusting due to changes in foreign exchange. [ph] Nothing as of major but a little bit (29:57). And on the paint side, Steve, there is always a little bit of inflation, but not – nothing special this year.

Nothing out of ordinary that will happen this year.

Okay. With reference to acquisition pipeline, when we're looking at the multiples today versus last year, are they trending up in – are you bumping into more private equity players as you're bidding up multiples?

Yeah. For the type of acquisitions, the targets that we're looking at, we are not bumping into any private equity people in that market, absolutely not, okay? As far as multiples are concerned, we're not really seeing a big change over the last quarters.

And sellers, is it pretty much why a succession, why would they be selling...

I mean there is different reasons as you see, everyone has a different story. In some cases, its succession planning. Where there is new succession, the person wants to retire. And other cases that's people who basically are wondering whether or not they can meet the working capital requirements and the systems requirements that are needed to manage the unknowing demand for additional parts and the longer life of the vehicles and so on so forth. So it's different type of situations that we're facing.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from [ph] Michael Glenn (31:40). Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon.

Good afternoon, [ph] Michael (31:46).

Just to clarify on the JK Distributors when you integrate that, does it still continue to operate under JK distributors or do you switch the – do you switch the brand name as well?

Brands, no. We completely converted them to the Auto-Plus brand, which is our brand for all of our stores both for our corporate as well as our independent.

Okay. Okay. Additionally on the COO, can you – where would that person be based?

What? I'm sorry.

Is that person going to be based in...

He will be based here in Montreal.

Okay.

Into that office.

Okay. And how will they split their time between U.S. and Canadian operations?

Listen, you're getting into way too much detail probably similar to what I'm doing right now. So a lot of time in the U.S. and a lot of time here. I hope you're not gauging us on a [ph] 35 hours a week ratio (32:42).

Well now, is it like – it seems as though the Canadian business is performing quite well. So I would anticipate he is going to spend more time in the U.S. I felt. Would that be a good assumption?

I hope so we have for lunch.

Okay. And just the circle back on the gross margin, based on your commentary I guess we should assume that gross margin pressure continues to the back half of the year?

I was – I was unfortunately have to say. So, yes. But again the – the cost also is being had a downward trend also at the same time.

Okay. And then just in terms of some of the sales initiatives that you're thinking of, would that include maybe some price discounting?

Not really. No. It's really going much more of being very proactive in the way that we go to market.

Okay. Any – is there any more detail there or...?

No.

Okay. And have you been able to gain any of the CARQUEST banners at this point in time?

Yes.

Okay. Any idea of how many or where those were based?

Well, I mean we have changed a couple of stores already, obviously all in the U.S. and we have agreements for some more, but obviously until that's done, I don't want to announce any of it.

Okay. The account payable balance jumped fairly significantly in the quarter. Is that – was that a timing related or should have [ph] stepped (34:31) at this level?

It is a timing mainly because of the fact that we have to – we purchased a lot of – don't forget we purchased a lot in March, April and May in order to accommodate the sales of May and June, and its seasonal and also for the summer. So, at the end of the day, it's normal that if you compare the balance as compared to year end, it's obvious that we do have a lot more payables at this time of the year.

Okay. Thanks. That's it from me. Thanks.

Thank you, [ph] Michael (35:06).

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting back to Mr. Roy.

Thank you very much, Paul. Well, thank you very much for your interest in our company and the time that you have spent with us. I really look forward to talk to you again at the end of October, when we will be announcing our third quarter results, and I will expect to have further improvement to report at that point.

So to all of you, have a nice balance of the day, and thank you for your attendance on this call. Take care.

Thank you. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time. And we thank you for your participation.