Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karine Vachon — Investor Relations & Communications Director, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Denis Mathieu — Vice President-Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Richard G. Roy — President and Chief Executive Officer, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Gary O'Connor — President and COO Canadian Operations, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Willie Alexander — Executive Vice President-Corporate Stores, Uni-Sélect, Inc.
Daniel Courtney — President, FinishMaster, Inc.
Elaine Lae — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets
Otto Cheung — Analyst, GMP Securities
Vincent Perri — Analyst, Laurentian Bank Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Fourth Quarter Results 2011 Conference Call.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Karine Vachon, Manager, Investor Relations and Communications. Please go ahead, Ms. Vachon.

Thank you. Welcome to the 2011 fourth quarter and fiscal year review of Uni-Sélect. The speakers today will be Richard G. Roy, President and CEO; and Denis Mathieu, Vice President and CFO. Also attending the conference are Mr. Gary O'Connor, Executive Vice President; Willie Alexander, Executive Vice President, Corporate Stores U.S.A.; and Dan Courtney, President of FinishMaster.

Before we proceed with the presentation, I would like to remind you that certain information that will be discussed during this call may constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of securities laws. Caution should be used in the interpretation of such information since management has made certain assumptions which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those indicated or underlying these forward-looking statements.

For more information on risks and uncertainties, please refer to our most recent annual report filed with the Canadian Securities Commissions and available on SEDAR. Forward-looking information discussed on this call are based on management's current estimates and expectations. We do not undertake to publicly update this information unless required by applicable securities laws.

Denis Mathieu will now present the financial information, followed by Richard G. Roy, who will describe operation highlights for the quarter and conclude the review. At the end of the presentation, we will open the line for your questions.

Thank you, Karine, and welcome to our fourth quarter review. Sales for the quarter were $131 million higher than last year at $437 million. The increase in revenues versus last year is mainly made of the impact of the acquisition of FinishMaster amounting to $116 million including organic growth. The impact of the acquisition of Parts Depot, the Florida operations, amounts to $15 million. Changes in sales due to organic growth were very positive at $14 million, or 3.4% for the quarter. This variation is comprised of the following: Canadian organic growth were $2 million or 1.6% and the U.S. organic growth, 12 million at 4.2%.

The net earnings at $100 million – no, I'm sorry, it's $11.7 million, or $0.54 per share represent an increase of 15% compared to last year at $10.2 million, or $0.52 per share. Once adjusted for non-recurring items, such as the ERP implementation and the network organization expenses, adjusted earnings were $12.8 million, or $0.59 per share as compared to last year at $0.55 per share.

The exchange rate between Canadian and the U.S. dollars is comparable year-over-year. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the sales were up by almost $1 billion – $500 million, I'm sorry, higher than last year, so at $1.8 billion. The increase in revenue versus last year is mainly made of the impact of the acquisition of FinishMaster amounting to $452 million including organic growth. The impact of the acquisition of Parts Depot, once again, only the Florida operations, amounting to $50 million and the valuation of the currency exchange rate adding revenue by $22 million.

The stores that were either closed or sold reduced the revenue during the year by $6 million. Change in sales due to organic reasons were positive $43 million, or 2.5% year-over-year and this variation is mainly comprised of the change in the organic growth at 3.5%, or $80 million and the U.S. organic growth at $26 million, or 2.1%.

Net earnings for the year, $56.5 million, or $2.61 per share, represent an increase of 45% compared to last year at $45.1 million, or $2.49 per share. Once adjusted again, for non-recurring items such as gain on disposal of assets, acquisition expenses, mainly the FinishMaster, ERP and network reorganization expenses, adjusted earnings worth $60.5 million, or $2.79 per share as compared to $2.46 per share last year.

The return on average shareholders' equity in 2011 stood at 12.5% and remain unchanged as compared to 2010. The – in terms of financial position, I would like to add that during the quarter, we finalized the conversion of our financial statement to IFRS. Adjustments have been made to some 2010 figures in order to reflect the transition from Canadian GAAP to the international standards.

Once again, as we explained in the first quarter, the impact of the IFRS on the Uni-Sélect financial statement is mainly comprised of the employees' benefits, cumulative translation adjustments, adjustment for rebate and provision from suppliers, net of income taxes. All those adjustments impacted 2010's opening balance sheet and reduced 2010 net earnings by less than $1 million, or $0.05 per share.

Finally, it's worth mentioning that the 2011 tax rate is not representative of the ongoing tax rate. As mentioned during the third quarter revenue, drop in the tax rate is directly related to lower profit margin in region where we know we have high tax rate. Weighted average tax rate was directly impacted positively. Going forward, tax rate of 20% to 21% on an annual basis is more representative, and as we should reverse the trend on margin on those regions.

Now, Richard?

Thank you very much, Denis. So, let's talk a little bit about the operations during the fourth quarter of 2011. And if you look at our aftermarket – automotive aftermarket environment and what are the underlying factors that are affecting the industry right now, the first – one of the first elements is the age of the vehicles which is nine-plus years and increasing annually at about 1%. And that certainly is the favorable factor. That's a tailwind. We also have a number of vehicles in operation which is growing at about 5% compounded annual growth rate, which is also a positive factor for the industry.

Consumer spending, disposable income is showing some positive trends late in 2011. So, that would be favorable, while the unemployment rate is also improving at least at the end of 2011. There was some improvement there. So, that's again the tailwind that's carrying us.

On the other hand, gas prices are getting higher. So, that's a headwind. And miles driven are also trending about 1.5% down year-over-year, which also represents a headwind. So, considering these aftermarket fundamentals, we remained positive even though high gas price continued to be a headwind. I would tell you that the tone is generally upbeat.

If we're looking at our operations in Canada now, the Canadian sales posted an organic growth for the quarter of 1.6%, or 3.5% for the 12-month period. Once we eliminate the impact of the exchange rate and the historic close and net of the acquisitions, actually, I will come out with a little bit of my text to tell you that the fourth quarter organic growth for the Canadian warehouses was affected negatively by an adjustment to the rebates granted to our customers as the growth has been higher than originally planned. And with the type of customers, our programs are so made that the rebates earned were higher for the year and a lot of the adjustment was booked in the fourth quarter; otherwise, the organic growth in the fourth quarter would have been similar to the organic growths for the balance of the year.

And that is true despite the fact that product inflation, as we measure internally and not scientifically, by extending the quantities on hand at the end of the period by the cost both in effect this year and the previous year, that product inflation shows negative price – pricing in Canada of 1.5% on average than last year. And last year, it was also negative 1.3% compared to 2009. So, quite frankly, despite those negative prices and evolution of those negative prices, we're still showing organic growth.

During the quarter in Canada, we've had experienced a little bit of productivity issues in some of our warehouses related to the rollout of the SAP software and also the completion of a move in one of our large warehouse on the West Coast. I will tell you, though, that the situation is now back to normal and we've very happy with the way that it has all happened.

If I look at the U.S. operation now, sales for the fourth quarter of 2011 were up $132.3 million, or 73%. If we're looking at the organic sales, they were up about $12 million, or 4.2% for the quarter after taking into consideration the stores that were either acquired or sold, as well as the acquisitions of FinishMaster and the assets of Parts Depot in Florida. Year-to-date, the revenues are up $460 million, or 59%. Again, organically, the sales are up $26 million, or 2.1%. So, as you can see the trend that started in the third quarter continues in the fourth quarter.

Even if the margin is up 0.2% in the fourth quarter, we're still not where we need to be in terms of reinstating the margins that we – erosion that we had in the third quarter. We are making some headway. But we talked about that in the third quarter and I would tell you that when we look at the overall situation, obviously, there is pressure on selling prices due to prevailing economic conditions. But we also have an unfavorable change in the type of customer that we have and the mix of customer, that has put some pressure on the margins there.

As I've mentioned last quarter, measures had been implemented and some of the positive impacts were seen in the fourth quarter on that margin. We certainly have revised all of the pricing, all of the schedules that we could. There has been some additional support from our vendors and so on, so forth, though we are working also in reducing our cost base, so that's in process. And we're beginning to see some benefits even though we're not quite done yet.

Stores. Special emphasis again was placed also on improving margin. Some prices were increased selectively on some items. And we continue – we see some positive impact and we continue to work on that to further improve gross margin. We've talked to you in the past about some dual markets, remodeling our stores. Well, we completed another dozen stores in 2011 for a total of 23 stores over the past two years. And an additional six stores remodeling are in process in early 2012 as we talk.

The product deployment within initial – and the product deployment at Beck/Arnley during the quarter was enhanced in Canada and we see improved sales to our Canadian jobbers there. We've also added some additional sales people in Canada to improve that, and it's having a tangible impact. We have also completed our Beck/Arnley product deployment in several of our stores in the U.S., and we're pretty much done with what we expected to do. And we are seeing very positive result there also.

Talking about FinishMaster, the overhead reductions of $2 million plan for 2011 and the synergies that we announced, they were achieved. Actually, we've achieved additional synergies of approximately $1.5 million for a run rate in 2011 of $3.5 million. Annual synergies are at the $6 million level as we speak. Run rate, and if you remember, that's what we had announced for the end of the second year. And we're pretty much at the end of the first year. So, we're doing – we're certainly doing well there and are in line.

We announced some branch consolidation between the FinishMaster and the Uni-Sélect locations. That began last quarter with three locations that merged in August and October. Two more have been merged during the first quarter of this year. And we are turning one more – one consolidation per month going forward in 2012. The acquisitions of the assets of Parts Depot in Florida also created six more store consolidation opportunities.

You're all aware that we're also in the middle of the deployment of an Enterprise Resource Planning software. And as far as that is concerned, we have had significant and successful milestones during the last quarter. We have completed the implementation in 5 warehouses and 12 stores. As of the beginning of November, the implementation was a success. Last weekend, we implemented the software in an additional six warehouses in 22 stores. In total now, 13 warehouses, 44 stores have been implemented. The project is progressing well and is on schedule.

When you look at our balance sheet, you'd probably also realize that the level of inventory is unusually high for this time of year. We have done some early purchasing for the spring season in order to improve the fill rate from our suppliers. And we've also been granted some additional incentive on special purchases which we took advantage of. So, the working capital will stay at a higher level during the first quarter of 2012 but we do expect that working capital reduction will be back at historical level as soon as the end of June this year.

So, in conclusion, the main highlights for 2011 were the acquisition, obviously, of FinishMaster in the U.S. on January 11, 2011. The acquisition of certain assets of Parts Depot in Florida that was completed at the end of October 2011 and are already impacting positively the fourth quarter results, the opening of a couple of new stores, the merger of three stores with FinishMaster, the closure of seven stores and the acquisition of five new locations.

We've also reorganized the Canadian distribution network. We've deployed our – we've started the deployment of our Enterprise Resource Planning system as planned and I will tell you that the organic sales being positive in Q3 and Q4 is also a highlight.

So, in conclusion, I will tell you that during the next quarters, the corporation will continue to focus on the following objectives: maintain our efforts to increase the efficiency of our operations through increased sales, improved margin, productivity as well as improved control over cost and assets; pursue the integration of FinishMaster, as well as those related to the assets recently acquired in Florida; and continue the orderly deployment of the Enterprise Resource Planning system.

The board of directors today approved and the declaration of the dividend of CAD 0.13 per share, in Canadian dollars, payable on April 28, 2012 through the common shareholders of record on March 30, 2012. This is an increase of 8.3% compared to the preceding quarter.

This completes our 2011 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end review. We're now ready for your question. Please feel free to ask the question either in French or in English as you prefer. Thank you very much. And, Valerie, I'm giving you back the control.

Thank you, Mr. Roy. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you. I was reading in the press release about you guys have some proactive initiatives in terms of margins for 2012. Just if you can give us some more details on that.

Basically, Elaine, with the – if you remember, if you go back to the third quarter call that we talked, we talked about several initiatives amounting to an overall amount of $10 million in margin. And we were talking about some expense elements certainly on the labor side. We were also talking about pricing adjustment and obtaining some support for some of our initiatives from our vendor community. So, these are the elements that we started working on and that we certainly did some of that in Q4, and we will continue to work on those elements to continue to improve margin over the next quarters in 2012.

So, would you say year-to-date, I guess what percentage or what dollar run rate are you at?

That's a good question. It's very difficult to assess because you've got elements that go up and elements that go down and something like that.

Yes.

But we're certainly happy with the elements of cost and some of the margin enhancement also. I would tell you that we're probably halfway in our targets at this stage.

Okay. That's great. And just looking at the Q4 margin on adjusted basis, just the difference from Q3, was there anything other than the customer mix that might have negatively impacted just the change in margin quarter-over-quarter?

I think you need to look at seasonality. If you look at Q3 versus Q4, you will see for the last three years some decrease. I'm looking at it, really, Q4 this year against Q4 last year, and you've got an improvement there. A lot of our costs, we're being more and more involved with stores, so a lot of our costs are fixed. So, quite frankly, when you're looking $30 million, $40 million less volume than the previous quarter, that has that type of impact on your margin. So – and you shouldn't be looking at Q4 versus Q3. You should be looking at Q4 this year versus Q4 last year and we're about 30 basis points ahead of where we were last year.

And despite some adjustments at year-end this year, again, I was referring to some additional rebates that were granted to Canadian customers because of the way our product – our programs are structured. And we were successful with revenues but that meant additional rebates, and that was booked in the last quarter. We've also increased a little bit of some reserves and I'm thinking about employee benefits, a couple of million dollars' worth of impact there. So, there is always those year-end elements. But if you look at Q4 this year against Q4 last year, you're about 30 basis points ahead of last year.

Yeah.

And that shows that we're making some headway.

And just to clarify on the rebates, was it just the – your volume exceeded the discount rebates so you had to reverse some of them?

No, it's not – no, it's just the other way around. It's that we accrue rebates that we grant to our customers as we go, but as larger customers who have very good – the best buying conditions have increased their volume, the – and the sales are better there, we have accrued additional rebates that we give them. Rebates granted to our customers are accounted for as a reduction of sales, and obviously, it comes out of margin, too. So, that's really what has taken place. And that's why when we say 1.6% during the last quarter and 3.5% during the year as organic sales in Canada, in reality the 1.6% is negatively affected by that accounting entry, but quite frankly, from an operational point of view in the last quarter, the organic sales were as good as during the first three quarters.

I know. That's great. And I'll just leave with one question before I get back in the queue, but just anything in terms of outlook for 2012?

Nice try. You know that we don't give guidance. So, you know that there's really that anything that I want to add other than the fact, as we mentioned last quarter, that we keep working on improving our margins in the U.S. and that the overall environment, as I have mentioned in our opening remarks, remained positive despite the headwind of miles driven that is down and the cost of fuel that is up. Other than that, I won't go any further. The environment is still – to us, we're positive about the environment, and we keep working on the improvement of our operating margin. And we're not totally done, but we're making progress.

That's great. Appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your next question is from Otto Cheung. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Just wanted to touch upon your debt levels. Are there any concerns of hitting your certain covenants in the near-term especially with Q1 being another high-working-capital quarter.

Well, we're working at lowering the working capital that we employed. Obviously, the level of inventory right now is very high. We're also increasing our EBITDA dollars which certainly help support all of this.

Okay. Okay, and in terms of maybe can you provide a little more color on your – the potential impact of the higher gas prices and like how you have historically seen that impact you guys?

Well, yeah, this impacted us last in 2011, no doubt about that. 2012, it's still a bit early in the year to see what the impact will be. Looking at that rough figures, okay, you're just – I'm looking at this from a fairly high level, we're consuming about $10 million worth of fuel annually in our various vehicles. So, depending on where the fuel costs will end up in 2012 compared to 2011, you can try to see what the impact would be.

I will tell you at the same time that we think that we are always working at improving our fleet with more fuel-efficient vehicles and also reorganizing our delivery routes to minimize the travel that we have and be more efficient to compensate for some of that. But it's obviously – it's a headwind. And it's also a headwind in terms of consumer spending, miles driven and so on, so forth. You look at 2011, if you read what the industry analysts are saying, they're talking, depending who you read, anywhere between 1.2% to 1.5% decrease, 2011 over 2010, still too early for me to see what's going on in 2012, but it's certainly is one of the headwind that we're facing.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you. That's all I have for now. Thanks.

Thank you, Otto.

Thank you. Our next question is from Vincent Perri. Please go ahead.

Yes. Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Good afternoon.

So, just a follow-up on the debt levels. This year, in 2012, what would you expect in terms of the – of repayments for debt – from your free cash flow, how much do you think you would be able to pay down debt?

Well, basically, we do expect that between now and June, it probably would be down $50 million compared to where we are at the end of the year. It's not going to be done in March, I would think, because that's still a very high season for us. But between now and the end of the second quarter, I would expect that we'll be very close to $50 million decrease in the debt level.

Okay. Sorry. Did you want to add something? Sorry.

Yeah, there is $50 million coming from the reduction of inventory, and another $50 million between June and December with the net re-cash from the company, excluding inventory reduction.

So, working capital reduction, $50 million between now and June. And then the outgoing earnings and cash flow, another $50 million by the end year. That's really what Denis is saying.

Okay. For a total of 100 for the year?

Exactly.

Okay. And if I go back to the margins, I mean, it's two years now that our margins are like at the low-end of the 6% range, and we're looking for all these synergies coming from the FinishMaster acquisition, where could we see the margins going by the end of the year? Could you give us a little bit of guidance given the market conditions and what you see in the synergies? Could we see a lift from these levels?

Vince, I will tell you that we are certainly convinced that we can improve them. Again, we're not giving guidance. I want to be very careful there because it's a very slippery slope. If I start saying a little bit, then my legal guys will get on my case and say that I've got to give more and more which obviously would suit you but it's not something that we've done in the past that we want to do.

What I'm telling you is that we have this year, generally speaking, improvements over last year except for the third quarter. We're one-tenth or 10 base points better than last year which is not where we want to be. And we're working very hard to improve that. I will tell you that something like 50 basis points is something that we can certainly talk about. But again I don't really want to go further in terms of where we want to be in the future. It's above that but I don't want to commit to that.

Okay. Fair enough. Now, with respect to your 2010 numbers, the Q4 figures that you presented, I see there's some adjustments compared to last year. I know it has to a little bit with the transition from GAAP to IFRS. But could you give us a little bit of detail because I thought the Q4 numbers that we had presented in the prior MD&A had these figures presented in IFRS?

Denis?

It's really directly related to the IFRS. You're perfectly right. But we never – up to now, we had – we released the first, second and third quarter under IFRS but, if I recall it correctly, I don't think we disclosed the fourth quarter under IFRS. So, it's really the first time that we are releasing the numbers for 2010 under IFRS because we had to release January 1, 2010, and every quarter during the – so, this one is really the first time that we are releasing that fourth quarter of 2010.

Okay. And my last question just on the ERP system, we're on budget with respect to the timeline. In terms of cost, are we still targeting the $76 million?

We have talked. The last time that we had, we were very close to that in terms of CapEx and the cost. I think it's a little bit higher than $76 million. If I remember well, it's in the $80 million somewhat range.

If I may, in terms of CapEx you've very close. It's $78 million, okay. But the total cost of project is $90 million. So, most of the – the difference between $90 million and $78 million is already spent to the P&L in 2010 and 2011. If I recall it correctly, I think there is only a couple of million dollars for 2012, okay, and that's going to be it. So, I would say that $78 million, I think there is only $10 million remaining. So, $80 million out of the $90 million is already spent.

We're not – we haven't changed that budget. The last time we really made a change which was what six, nine months ago or something like that. It hasn't changed since then.

Okay. Well, thank you. That's it from me.

Welcome.

Thank you. Our next question is from [indiscernible] (31:50). Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. I had a question regarding the organic growth rate. The number 4.2% seems awfully high for the U.S. operations. Can you maybe provide a bit more color on that, was it due to pricing, was it due to new stores or?

No. New stores would not really get in there. Quite frankly, we have done pricing in Q2 and Q3 to make sure that we were in the game. There has been some additional type of customers that we've added. I think I could ask my two colleagues from the U.S. to add color to that. I do believe that we're gaining a little bit of ground on the market there. FinishMaster is also doing very well in gaining market share. So, Gary, would you have anything else that you would like to add on this?

I would love to. I just think all our initiatives we started early in the year are starting to pay off in 2011, and we saw some results in 2012. So, I just – for the automotive side, these are just part of those initiatives.

Willie, would you have anything that you would like to add?

I would just say that we did gain market share through new customers and organic growth with existing customers in the fourth quarter. So, not a whole lot on inflation.

Dan, at FinishMaster?

Our focus is new customer traction, and we are aggressively going after market share in that respect. The paint industry continues to pass 4-plus-percent price increases per year.

So, that certainly was a positive impact on our figures. [ph] Eliam (33:34), is that what you are looking for?

Yeah, that's great. That's great. And then I just – I guess on Canada, you were saying that if it wasn't for a couple of those negative adjustments that you had in the quarter that the organic growth would've been closer to 3.5% or more like the annual number that you had for Canada, is that what you would expect going forward as well?

Well, yes, that's what it was basically. You're right [ph] Eliam (33:58).

Okay.

Going forward, it's always difficult to say. Again, we're not giving guidance there. But at this stage, I have no real special worry, let's put it this way.

Okay, great. Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Elaine Lae. Please go ahead.

Thanks. I just have a follow-up on – just more details on the changing customer mix impact at margins. Just – is this just to, I guess, customer mix that go for more entry-level products? Or what kind of mix change are we seeing?

No, that's really a new type of customers in terms of national accounts and elements like that where the margins are slightly different. There has been some product mix changes but no visible difference in the last couple of quarters than we've been experimenting over the last few years. So, I wouldn't call that a big factor.

Okay. So, in terms of – just because you guys have obviously great organic growth and it looks like the focus is customer – gaining customers, but would you say the profile may be shifting to lower margin but more volume?

There has been some of that, obviously. That's not what we're trying to do. And that's what we're working on. And when you're talking about improvement in margins, part of it is to make sure that we are doing better with the higher margin customers, and that's part of the improvement that we're seeing right now.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions registered at this time. I would like to turn the meeting back over to you, Mr. Roy.

Well, thank you very much for your interest in Uni-Sélect and for your questions, I really welcome that. I'd like to mention that May 8, we will have our Annual Shareholders Meeting and also the announcement of our first quarter 2012 results. So, I look forward to see you then and talk to you then. Hopefully, you can visit us at the meeting.

Thank you very much again for your interest and your time, and have a good balance of the day. Bye-bye.

Thank you, sir. The conference has now ended. Please disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation.