Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Howard M. Lorber — President & Chief Executive Officer, Vector Group Ltd.
Ronald J. Bernstein — President & Chief Executive Officer-Liggett Group LLC and Liggett Vector Brands LLC, Vector Group Ltd.
Bryant Kirkland — Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Vector Group Ltd.
Richard J. Lampen — Executive Vice President, Vector Group Ltd.
Ken P. Bann — Analyst, Jefferies & Co., Inc.
Mitchell Pindus — Analyst, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to Vector Group Limited Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. During this call, the terms adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA, and tobacco adjusted operating income will be used. These terms are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations to adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA, and tobacco adjusted operating income are contained in the company's earnings release, which had been posted to the Investor Relations section of the company's website located at www.vectorgroupltd.com.

Before the call begins, I'd like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The statements made during this conference call are not historical facts but forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks are described in more detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Vector Group, Howard Lorber.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us for Vector Group's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. With me today is Ron Bernstein, the President and CEO of Liggett Vector Brands and Liggett; and Bryant Kirkland, Vector Group's Chief Financial Officer. I will provide an update on our business and review Vector Group's financials for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013. Ron will then address Liggett's performance for the period and provide an update on company and industry developments. After that, we will answer your questions.

As you may be aware, on October 23, Vector Group and Liggett announced a settlement relating to the Engle Tobacco Litigation in Florida. Pursuant to the settlement, more than 4,900 of the 5,300 individual Engle plaintiffs will be dismissing their claims against Vector Group and Liggett. We are pleased to have reached this landmark settlement, which has resulted in a $53 million after-tax charge in the third quarter, as it prudently resolved substantially all the Engle cases pending against us. The Engle cases have been the company's biggest litigation overhang over the [ph] past (02:16) decade, and this settlement will substantially reduce our ongoing litigation risks, as well as related legal expenses.

Turning to our business operations, we performed very well in the third quarter and our balance sheet remained strong. Furthermore, we continued to have significant liquidity with cash and cash equivalents of $260.5 million, and investment securities and foreign [indiscernible] (02:38) of interest with a fair market value of $178.5 million as of September 30, 2013.

In the real estate business through New Valley, we made a number of investments this year in development projects, primarily focused in the New York City area. There continued to be strong demand in residential real estate in the city and we have been fortunate to partner with several talented developers on various projects.

Recently, New Valley and our partners closed on the purchase of 101 Murray Street, one of the largest development sites in Lower Manhattan. Additionally, with other partners, we signed a definitive purchase agreement over the Park Lane Hotel on Central Park South. With respect to our Escena real estate investment in Palm Springs, California, in October we sold 200 of the 867 finished lots for approximately $22.7 million. We will continue to assess new opportunities and selectively pursue those with the best partners' terms and long-term value [ph] potential. (3:37)

I will now review the key financials for the three and nine months ended September, 30, 2013, for Vector Group. For the third quarter ended September 30, 2013, Vector Group revenues were $271.5 million compared to $272.8 million in 2012. The decline in revenues was primarily due to an approximate 3.6% reduction in cigarette volumes during the period, which was partially offset by higher pricing.

The company recorded adjusted operating income of $46.6 million in the 2013 third quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $43.2 million in the 2012 period, an increase of approximately 8% primarily due to increased margins. Third-quarter 2013 adjusted net income was $18 million or $0.19 per diluted share, compared to 2012 third-quarter adjusted net income of $20.9 million or $0.23 per diluted share. For the third quarter 2013, adjusted EBITDA was $50.1 million compared to $46.6 million for the year-ago period, an increase of approximately 7%, primarily due to increased margins in 2013.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, Vector Group revenues were $761 million compared to $807 million in the 2012 period. The decline of revenues was primarily due to an approximate 9.5% reduction in cigarette volumes through the nine-month period, which was partially offset by higher pricing.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, adjusted operating income was $127 million compared to $117.6 million in 2012. The 8% increase was primarily due to increased margins. The adjusted net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, was $45.4 million or $0.48 per diluted share compared to the 2012 nine-month period, where adjusted net income was $43.3 million or $0.48 per diluted share.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2013, adjusted EBITDA was $136 million compared to $127.9 million for the year-ago period, an increase of approximately 7% primarily due to increased margins in 2013.

I will now turn the call over to Ron Bernstein to discuss our tobacco business. Ron?

Thanks, Howard, and good morning, everyone. As Howard indicated, on an operating basis, our tobacco business had a strong third quarter despite challenging industry dynamics. We remain pleased with our year-to-date performance and our position going forward.

As mentioned in previous calls, during the first quarter, the participating manufacturers of the MSA, including Liggett and Vector Tobacco, entered into an agreement with 20 of the 52 MSA states and territories to resolve the longstanding non-participating manufacturer adjustment dispute for the years 2003 through 2012. During the second quarter, two additional states joined the settlement.

In the third quarter, the NPM adjustment arbitration panel ruled that 6 of the 15 states that did not settle had not diligently enforced their MSA obligations in 2003. As a result, Liggett will receive a credit of approximately $6 million against this 2014 MSA obligation. This was recognized in the current quarter with $4 million applied to operating income and $2 million to interest income.

The NPM adjustment arbitration process will continue with the non-settling states as we still to resolve years 2004 through 2012. We obviously would prefer a negotiated solution to this process.

Excluding the income from the arbitration ruling, the Engle progeny settlement and litigation judgment, our third quarter operating profit increased by nearly 6% over the prior year period. The increased profit was primarily the result of higher margins across all brands and effective cost control, the benefits of which were partially offset by anticipated lower volumes.

Before I elaborate further on performance, let me turn to the financials. Please note that financial reporting for Vector Tobacco was combined with Liggett. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, Liggett revenues were $271.5 million and $751 million compared to $272.8 million and $807 million in the corresponding period in 2012.

Tobacco adjusted operating income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013, was $50.9 million and $139.4 million, respectively, compared to $48.1 million and $130.2 million in 2012. Thus, tobacco adjusted operating income increased by 5.8% in Q3 and 7% year-to-date over the prior year period.

We continued to maintain a balanced approach to pursuing volume and margin opportunities in the market. In essence, we worked to maximize short-term opportunities while maintaining focus on brand strength and long-term profit growth.

As you may recall, in 2011 and 2012 market conditions led us to pursue higher margins on our brand portfolio while continuing to build on the national strength of our Pyramid brand. Earlier this year, we determined that the time was bright to also drive longer-term volume growth by leveraging our strong position in the deep discount segment.

To that end, in January, we introduced a new national brand Eagle 20's. The key goal of Eagle 20's is to stabilize our overall volume trends by offsetting losses in non-core brands, as well as to develop a second brand that is complementary to Pyramid. Eagle 20's is building on its good start and is clearly benefiting from the robust distribution base we've built with Pyramid over almost four years.

Through the first nine months of 2013, the brand gained active distribution in over 26,000 retail outlets with more than 3,000 added since the end of the second quarter. In addition, we believe there are a variety of growth opportunities for both Pyramid and Eagle 20's and we have recently implemented targeted programs that feature a more aggressive tactically oriented approach to marketplace discount.

We're very pleased with the early results of these programs, which are meeting their objectives. While Pyramid, Eagle 20's and our other conventional cigarettes will clearly remain our primary focus long term, we were also pleased to announce that we have entered the fast-growing e-cigarette category, a $1.5 billion industry in the U.S. at this point with a limited shipment this past September, and plans to substantially expand our market presence early in 2014.

It's important to point out that while we recognize the potential of this category, we enter it cautiously, as there are currently many unknown factors that are beyond our control. These include long-term consumer acceptance, taxation, and the impact of likely FDA regulations. With that in mind, we've developed our e-cigarettes brand, ZOOM, with [ph] Zio (11:03) a company based in Germany that has significant experience in the e-cigarette category. This approach has allowed us to take advantage of new and emerging technologies while minimizing the costs of developing a new high quality product from the ground up.

ZOOM will be manufactured in China where the first e-cigarette appeared into the market in 2000, and will feature a proprietary e-liquid made in the United States. We will discuss ZOOM in more detail including specifics on timing and the scope of our market expansion in future conference calls.

We believe that we'll be entering the market with an appealing product. And as this category continues to grow, we will succeed with ZOOM.

Turning back to conventional cigarettes, in the third quarter, the overall market, including our branch, showed some improvement. Despite this modest improvement, many consumers continued to search for low-cost alternatives.

Unfortunately, due to the failure of Congress and regulators to adequately address the tax evasion and avoidance of companies selling mislabeled pipe tobacco and filtered cigars, these under-regulated and under-taxed products are ubiquitous in the market, offering consumers ready access to low-cost smoking options.

In previous calls, I have noted the genesis of the mislabeled pipe tobacco situation. Without revisiting that, it's clear that the government's failure to date to properly enforce its tax code and existing law has led to the loss of billions of dollars of tax revenue and has adversely impacted the legitimate tax-paying industry.

While some progress was made by Congress last year in passing legislation that classifies retailers making cigarettes in their stores as manufacturers, unfortunately, the mislabeled pipe tobacco category appears stronger than ever.

Another under-taxed product that regulators and Congress have failed to address is filtered cigars, cigarette equivalents that are currently sold under an unintended tax loophole. While these products are not generally as popular as mislabeled pipe tobacco, we believe they currently comprise approximately 8 billion cigarette equivalents or almost 3% of the total cigarette market annually, and their appeal in the current economic climate continues to grow.

The GAO recommended that Congress consider equalizing tax rates on roll-your-own and pipe tobacco, and in consultation with Treasury, consider options for reducing tax avoidance due to tax differentials between small and large cigars. We, of course, continued to support full tax equalization.

We remain hopeful that FDA and TTB will uses the existing enforcement authority that they have to properly regulate these mislabeled products. So, regulatory activity has been further slowed by the recent government shutdown. Additionally, the FDA is in the process of revisiting its authority to regulate other tobacco products. It was encouraging to learn that the FDA recently sent warning letters to several companies that it believes are marketing roll-you-own tobacco and pipe tobacco who evade taxes. Additionally, a number of states have recently taken legislative or regulatory actions to address aspects of the mislabeled pipe tobacco problem, a trend that we hope continues and extends to filtered cigars.

As noted previously, large domestic and international cigarette manufacturers have moved into the deep discount segment, presumably to offset declining premium volumes. Not surprisingly, the big three companies now comprise a majority of this segment according to Management Science Associates' data. And we continue to see periodic aggressive pricing from foreign companies in an attempt to capture volume and share.

More importantly though, we remained pleased with the performance of our Pyramid brand amidst all of these factors. Pyramid has a well-established national presence and is currently sold in more than a 115,000 stores, with a distribution base that continues to grow. Pyramid remains the seventh largest brand and third largest discount brand in the United States.

According to Management Science Associates, for the third quarter of 2013, overall industry wholesale shipments were flat due primarily to strong performance by Altria and Lorillard. Retail shipments declined by 3.2% in the quarter with Lorillard partially offsetting others' declines.

Of note, the second quarter trend of these discount-focused companies declining at a greater rate continued in the third quarter. Liggett's third quarter declines in wholesale and retail shipments were approximately 3.5% and 7%, respectively, versus the year-ago quarter. Importantly, this marked a substantial improvement over the prior quarter.

For the 2012 year, TTB reported industry taxable shipments declined by less than 2%. For the current year, we are now anticipating that taxable shipments will decline in the 4% range as cigarette shipment showed some improvement in the second half of this year.

As we look ahead, we will continue to implement our plan to grow Pyramid and Eagle 20's, as we introduce them nationally in 2014, while at the same time working carefully to control costs. We're pleased with our 2013 performance and market position, and are confident in our ability to continue to perform.

Thanks for your attention and back to you, Howard.

Thank you, Ron. As I noted at the start of the call, we are pleased with our recent performance and continued to believe that Vector Group is well positioned. We have strong cash reserves, have consistently grown profit margins in recent years and we'll continue to benefit from our favorable terms under the MSA.

Additionally, we are proud of the company's uninterrupted track record of paying a regular quarterly cash dividend since 1995, and an annual 5% stock dividend since 1999. The company once again reaffirms that our cash dividend policy remain the same.

Now, operator, would you please open the call for questions?

Yes, sir. At this time, we will open the floor for questions. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Ken Bann with Jefferies.

Good morning, Howard and Ron. I was just wondering on the settlement, what will – any negotiations going on with the other plaintiffs, the other cases in that, or would you expect to be able to settle them also on similar terms in the near future?

You mean the remaining ones that [ph] haven't opted in yet (17:38)?

Right, right, right. I think it's like 400 or so.

Yeah. There's a couple lawyers that control most of those, and we are going to continue the conversations and see if we can settle them.

Okay. Is there a hope there that you can, or is it – are they...

Bryant, you want comment on...

Yeah. So, I have a couple of things. A couple of things, first, there is a number of them, maybe as much as half of the remaining where people simply have not been able to be found by their attorneys. So, when you whittle1 that out, there is – as Howard said, there are one or two attorneys who control a substantial portion. We continue to have discussions, and obviously, we would be pleased on the same relative terms. But it's a process that's going to have play out over time.

Okay. And then, also, on the negotiations with Prudential over the Douglas Elliman stake, do you have anything to report there or it's still ongoing or...

Yeah. [ph] Jake (18:46), what could we say about that at this point?

We're still in the process of trying to complete that. We hope we're getting to close to the end.

Okay. And any other thoughts about any other price increases on your brands this year?

Well, as I'm sure you know, we would never broadcast pricing intentions for the future. We're always looking for opportunities to enhance our margins and taking a look at where our volume sits relative to that. So, I wouldn't be able to give any guidance at this point.

Okay. Okay. Great. All right. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from Mitch Pindus, Wells Fargo.

Hi, gentlemen.

Hi, Mitch.

Hi, Mitch.

My question relates to Prudential. Obviously according to the statements you made in the past, you're talking to them right now about finding a valuation of which to buy out their 20%. My question relates though to the, I guess, the royalty fee or whatever fee Prudential will be due from you for sales out of Douglas Elliman. Is that ongoing or is that finished based on the agreement?

We – our position is it's finished. Their position is it may not have been finished the same time exactly that we thought it was finished. And you sort of have two different organizations to have the franchise company which is now owned by Berkshire Hathaway. And the stock in Prudential – the stock that [indiscernible] (20:40) owned by Prudential was owned by something called [ph] PRESO (20:48) which was Prudential real estate finance subsidiary, which is still owned by Prudential. So it's a little bit complicated, but we believe at the end of the day that our obligations are seized. And it's just a matter of some period of time from the time we actually gave notice till when they felt it was over that there could be a claim.

And, Mitch, this is Dick Lampen. I mean, the larger issue, remember the agreement terminated in March. So certainly, since March no fees are owed, the only issue Howard's alluding to is whether several months before that, the obligation will also seize. But clearly as of...

Hello? Dick?

Yes?

Hello?

Hello?

Well, we hear you both.

Yeah, Mitch, I was just saying that – I think I was just clarifying that definitively as of March when the – hello?

Yes, we're listening. Go ahead. Dick?

It looks like our phones just reset in Miami.

Hello?

Hi. well, we hear you all still. Hey, Dick you want to finish what you were saying?

His phone might have reset. Let me get him, hold on.

All right.

Ladies and gentlemen, please hold. At the moment, we are having technical difficulties. Please stay on the line.

Ladies and Gentlemen, please continue to hold. We are experiencing technical difficulties. Call will resume momentarily.

Hello?

Mr. Howard.

Yes. Hi. I don't know want happened...

Okay, sir. Can you please...

Can you put us back in.

Yes, sir. You are back in the conference. You're the only speaker on so far.

Okay. I don't know what happened to our system, but we lost it.

Howard, I'm back. I don't know what happened.

Okay. So, I guess, we were talking about the – for Mitch. Mitch, are you still on? He maybe have gone. Are there any other questions, operator, on your list?

Yes, sir. We have a question from [ph] Fred Greenberg with Greenberg Advisors (24:20).

Okay.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

On the Douglas Elliman business, do you have a report – I couldn't dig it out of your long press release – about how that business performed in the quarter?

Yeah. It should be in there. I'll have BK... [ph]

This is just (24:44) minority interest, but there's no comment about it...

Yeah. BK, do you have a comment on that?

That's an interesting business and we should know more about it.

Yeah.

Okay. I will...

We're back on from Miami.

All right, BK, would you answer that?

We didn't hear the question.

The question refers to a little more color on Douglas Elliman, how that's doing and last – I think in the last quarter report, you had more to say about it – you had a little bit to say, but I didn't see any numbers, maybe it's in your minority interest line.

Yeah. Right. Before anything, it's Bryant Kirkland. How are you doing today?

Hi, Bryan. Good. Happy Halloween to you guys.

And happy Halloween to you. I don't have all numbers in front of me because I'm in another office. But we – I believe Douglas Elliman did an $18.5 million of EBITDA this quarter, compared to the year ago period of $10.5 million. And we did $33.3 million, I believe, for the nine months compared to $23.1 million.

And as far as revenues – their revenue were from – they went from about $103 million to $127 million this quarter. And last year, they went from – they were $272 million and this year they were $316 million for the nine months period.

So that's fabulous growth, that's true.

So we're in a very strong market.

Yeah I'm sitting right in the middle of it on Madison, in 89th Street.

Yes. Good place to be.

Yes. A good view. So you're going to consolidate this and – but you're going to bring it out of – as an equity line or are you going to bring it into the top line, in the bottom line without [indiscernible] (26:41) consolidate it?

When we consolidate, we [indiscernible] (25:43)...

Would that have – okay, would that have any impact on your – will it have an impact on your top line, right? [indiscernible] (26:50) integrating it into your rev, if you would have integrated it, just off the top of my head in your revs for this year and the third quarter, you would have obviously had a significant better rev line. has anyone pro-forma'ed that? Just tell us what that would look like in the future?

If we had – yes, it's Bryan. If we had had Douglas Elliman for this quarter, we would have had around $399 million of revenues.

And what would that have done [indiscernible] (27:22). What would that have looked like for your [ph] VDR (27:29) year-over-year as one business, just doing the math?

Sure. We would have gone from $375 million of revenues to $399 million.

Okay. So the revs would be up.

Would have been. Right.

And the bottom line, I assume there's no – well, if you buy the 20%, of course, you're buying more earnings.

Okay. Someone just tapped me on the shoulder now. I'm back to the questions. So if we consolidate the – as I say in operating sub, like any other sub, the bottom line business, does that impact the income – operating income, or is it already done by the equity line?

No. The operating income would have increased for the quarter by $18.5 million. It would – the operating income would have been higher by $18.5 million for the quarter. And the year-over-year increase in operating income for the quarter would have been around $8 million.

Okay. So, it's sort of – could we all say this, that it by this process, which is coming to an end point, the company does look more like a – a little more of a healthy growth company? Howard, how would you take that?

Well, I mean, look...

From your point of view, as long-time [indiscernible] (29:05)

Obviously, the real estate business has growth. I mean, on the sub business, as we know, doesn't have growth, although we've managed to grow our earnings. So obviously I guess you could say the overall picture looks better from a growth perspective.

Right. Have you – we talked – I talked about this and I don't think you'll do it. The valuation for real estate of this quality, like if you look at Toll Brothers, they're a builder, but you know what I'm alluding to, you're in the right neighborhood, so to speak.

Now, look at Realogy. I mean, that's...

Okay. Yeah, That's a service business – sure. That's right, first cousin. Would you spin this off?

We always think – we're going to do whatever we think is in the best interest of the shareholders.

Yeah. I think the answer I sense was no because it interrelates with your other strategic investments in real estate, which actually sounds good. Sounds good from operating a company, from being a stock jockey, I guess I was at Goldman Sachs in that phrase, the spin would obviously give you total higher value, I think, for the corporation.

If we believe that, then we think it's good for all the shareholders, ultimately we going to consider it.

Are you considering it?

We can't comment about what we talk about.

Okay.

Before we make a decision.

Okay. Well, I think you're a good businessmen. Yeah, congratulations.

Thank you.

It sticks in my mind that you bought that from almost nothing – from something on Long Island or...

Yeah, about $1 million.

What's your next one?

I don't know. We're still looking.

Yeah. You never know until it's over, right, 10 years later.

Exactly.

Okay.

Thank you.

And I'm glad you're getting into the electronic delivery system. You're delivering – and my background of course is medical. You're delivering in effect what's in a patch that you're delivering nicotine, right.

Nicotine, right. It's nicotine, yes, absolutely.

Did you ever think of going to Miami and talking to our mutual friend about developing this into a pharmaceutical?

No, we really haven't.

Yeah. Okay. I think he's busy in Tel Aviv right now. Okay.

Thank you...

So thanks a lot, gentlemen.

Have a good day. Any other calls, operator?

Yes, sir. [Operator Instructions] We have another question from Mitch Pindus at Wells Fargo.

Hi, gentlemen. I'm back. [indiscernible]

(32:09) [indiscernible]

(32:09)

That's right. You couldn't get rid of me that easily.

Exactly. So where were we in your question?

We were talking about Pru and the franchise fee and...

Yeah. So the point is we took the position and we terminated the franchise. And I think it's the end of October, beginning of November of last year. By contract, it was over anyways at the end of March of 2013. So there is – there could be and – could possibly be a dispute for a number of months. But from the end of March going forward, there cannot be any further dispute.

And what are those numbers look like? Is it 5% of gross sales?

No. It's based on commissions, not sales. And basically, it could be, probably what – BK, about $6 million a year we were paying in the couple of years, $5 million, $6 million, $7 million?

That's correct, Howard. It was around $6 million. And we do call it Douglas Elliman Financials and [indiscernible] (32:14) every year.

Okay. So my next question is switching over to the tobacco business. E-cigs, are we involved in that at all? You've always been sort of cutting edge when it came to the technology side of that business.

Ron?

Yeah, as I said, we have – we did a limited distribution. We're going to be introducing – or not introducing, but expanding a position in e-cigarettes in the first part of next year. Our brand is named ZOOM. We've developed it in coordination with a German e-cigarette company [ph] Zio (33:56) who's been quite active in Germany. The product is going to be manufactured in China. The liquid is proprietary and is formulated in the United States. We did a – we did some limited distribution in September and will be expanding it on a national basis again early in 2014.

Great, thank you. So, my last question really relates to some of these outside investments that you've done in the past which have been very successful for you. I'm talking about the op-cos of the world. And I am just wondering in order to find a lot of these investments, you really have to do some sleuthing. Actually, you have to do quite a bit of sleuthing in order to find some of them. I'm wondering if you're planning at some point to just put out a schedule where we can [ph] continue (34:50) you own X number of shares of this company, X of that company, that type of thing?

I don't think so because a couple of reasons. There are situations if we go back in time and find when we made a substantial – took a substantial position in strategic holdings and we were hoping to make a bigger investment in the company and then the stock just took off and we ended up selling, and I think we made $20 million or $25 million. Things like that you really don't want to report until you have report at any place. And so, unless it becomes a filing position, it probably doesn't make any sense for us to be report it.

And, Mitch...

And what about...

We're very – I mean, we're very transparent with the real estate investments that are being made. But as Howard said, with respect to the publicly traded securities, we only file when we [indiscernible] (35:41) position.

Right. Well, I guess what I'm talking about is after you're at that 13D position, have you considered just putting out a schedule and really opening the kimono, so to speak?

Well, I mean once we are in a 13D position, it's fully transparent. But we don't presently have any 13Ds that are outstanding.

I think we do, Dick [indiscernible] (36:07). We have Morgans Hotel. [indiscernible]

(36:12)

Right.

Speakers, at this time, we have no further questions in the queue.

Okay. Well, thank – I'd like to thank everyone for participating in this call. And as always, B.K., Ron and myself are available if anyone has any questions in the future. Thank you and we look forward to speaking with you on the next call. Have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's teleconference. You may now disconnect.