raw transcript


Vector Group Ltd.
 
VGR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to Vector Group's Fourth Quarter 2004 Earnings Conference Call. Before the


call begins, I’d like to read the Safe Harbor statement. The statements made during this


conference call which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to


risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth or


implied by forward-looking statements. These are described in more detail in the Company's


Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Operating Officer of Vector Group, Dr.


Howard Lorber.


Howard Lorber, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Good morning everyone. I’d just like to make a comment that we were delayed a few hours as we


assembled our final results, which is not uncommon considering the requirements of Sarbanes-


Oxley. We are pleased, however, to have the results issued at this time and we will be filing our


10-K later today.


Welcome to Vector Group's fourth quarter 2004 earnings conference call. Before the call – thank


you for joining us. With me today is Ron Bernstein; the President and CEO of Liggett Vector


Brands and Liggett's. On today’s call, I will provide an overview of our business and Vector


Group’s performance for the fourth quarter. Ron will then review the performance of Liggett group


and Vector Tobacco for the quarter and the year, and discuss the status of the restructuring of


Liggett Vector Brands that was announced during our third quarter call. After that, we will be happy


to take your questions.


Industry conditions, while remaining generally difficult have regionally started to develop more of a


traditional industry pattern. The big three companies all took pricing actions of approximately a $1


per carton late last year in conjunction with the tobacco quota buyout that became lower in October.


We believe that these price increases which were larger than the absolute amounts required to


cover the cost of the buyout reflect a greater comfort level and then narrow the size of the price gap


between premium and discount cigarettes. The market leaders have expended significant


resources over the past two years to both narrow and stabilize that price gap. While the discount


segment of the market remained highly challenging, 39 states, the most recent being Virginia, had


now passed the allocable share legislation, and we are finally starting to see the companies at the


deepest discount levels increase their prices. In his comments, Ron will address how these actions


coincide with our market strategy.


We are also closely monitoring some particularly aggressive retail trade programs being utilized by


two market leaders that appear to be designed to limit competitive access to shelf space in retail. If


these factors prove anticompetitive in nature, we will seek appropriate remedies.


As you already know, last October, Congress passed legislation that included an approximate $10


billion buyout for tobacco farmers and tobacco quota holders payable over the next 10 years. All


cigarette manufacturers and importers are to assess the amount necessary to cover this payment


based upon the respective company’s market share on a quarter-by-quarter basis. The USDA has


issued regulations on the legislation, but has not as yet established the assessment and payment


process. We anticipate that Liggett’s annual payment based upon current market share will be


approximately 23 million. To cover this cost, effective October 22nd 2004, Liggett raised the prices


on all of its cigarettes by 65 cents per carton. Most established manufacturers and importers have


now raised prices or reduced promotional spending level to compensate for the buyout cost. While
raw transcript


Vector Group Ltd.
 
VGR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


it is not yet clear that all of the smaller non-participants to the Master Settlement Agreement have


raised prices, it is clear that all of them will in fact be liable for the required payments going forward.


Industry-wide total domestic shipments for the 12-month ending December 31st declined by 1.7%


over the 5 to 12 month period while fourth quarter 2004 shipments increased by approximately 1%


compared to the same quarter a year ago. We believe industry declines for the year were less than


historical months due to some anticipatory wholesale purchasing in the fourth quarter relating to big


three pricing actions.


Liggett’s fourth quarter performance was impacted somewhat by the restructuring which took place


during the quarter and our decision to raise prices by 65 cents on October 22nd, to cover tobacco


quota buyout costs. Our decision to raise price prices as soon as possible was based up on our


clear understanding of the cost of the tobacco buyout legislation and our desire to raise prices by


the smallest amount possible and keeping with our strategic amendments to long-term pricing


stability. This early action was vindicated later in the quarter when all the major competitors raised


prices by approximately $1 per carton.


Overall, for the 12 months ending December 31st 2004 Liggett's unit sale declined by


approximately 8.6 percent. This decline was primarily due to program declines in our non-core


brands, as well as some valuable losses in Attorney brand, which is now reached a stable level.


For the fourth quarter, Liggett's units sales declined by approximately 4.9% over the prior year


period. As stated, all declines in units sales related to non-core brands. For the year Liggett's


select unit sales increased by 0.2% over 2003. And, for the quarter increased by approximately


7.2% over the prior year period. These unit sales increased by approximately 5.5% over the prior


year and by approximately 7.7% over the prior year quarter.


With respect to Quest, brand performance in the seven states continued to trend gradually


downward during the fourth quarter. The Arizona market continues to trend consistently with brand


performance in the original 7 states. Effective in November promotional spending in Arizona was


raised to approximately 650 a carton which brings it to comparable levels with the original seven


states. As we have previously stated, we do not plan to launch Quest on a national basis until such


time as we have satisfied any remaining quality issues for Quest 3 and market conditions especially


improved. As most of you are aware Quest 3 is commonly made exclusively with burly [ph]


tobacco. This gives Quest 3 unique case characteristics that do not appeal to a lot of customers.


We have been working for sometime on development of a flu cure tobacco without nicotine, and


late last year harvested our first test crop in Louisiana.


We were pleased with the directional improvements and taste characteristics obtained by blending


the low-nicotine flu cure together with our existing low-nicotine burly [ph] tobacco. However, we still


have more work to do and do not yet have a projected date for brining in new and improved version


of Quest to the market. When complete the improved blend provides Quest 3 and the whole Quest


brand with a more mainstream flavor and broadened brand appeal to adult smokers.


In addition, we continue to work with the SPA and have received guidance as to the required


research and regulatory filings necessarily to eventually market Quest as a smoking cessation


product. We are optimistic about this process and continue to believe that SPA approval of a


smoking cessation regimen is a key element to our long-term strategy. And, we will continue to


work toward that goal. Now, I will review the key financials for the 3 and 12 months ended 31st


2004 the Vector group and Ron, will review the key financials for our conventional cigarette


business and, our Vector tobacco new technology cigarette subsidiary. Our conventional cigarette


business, includes sales for both Liggett group cigarettes and, our USA brand cigarettes from the


Medallion's acquisition. In addition, for comparative purposes, we have excluded the discontinue


operations of New Valley’s Princeton New Jersey office buildings, which were just sold for 71.5


million in February 2005 as well as New Valley’s income from discontinuing operations, which