Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Howard M. Lorber — President & Chief Executive Officer, Vector Group Ltd.
Ronald J. Bernstein — President & Chief Executive Officer-Liggett Group LLC & Liggett Vector Brands LLC, Vector Group Ltd.
J. Bryant Kirkland III — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Vector Group Ltd.
Karru Martinson — Managing Director, Jefferies
Mitchell Ross Pindus — Financial Advisor, Wells Fargo Clearing Services LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Vector Group Limited's First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. During this call, the terms adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA and Tobacco-adjusted operating income will be used. These terms are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to but not as a substitute for other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations to adjusted operating income, adjusted net income, adjusted EBITDA and Tobacco-adjusted operating income are contained in the company's earnings release which has been posted to the Investor Relations section of the company's website located at www.vectorgroupltd.com.

Before the call begins, I'd like to read a Safe Harbor statement. The statements made during this conference call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. These risks are described in more detail in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Vector Group, Mr. Howard Lorber.

Good morning and thank you for joining us for Vector Group's first quarter 2018 earnings conference call. With me today are Ron Bernstein, the President and CEO of Liggett Vector Brands and Liggett; and Bryant Kirkland, Vector Group's Chief Financial Officer.

I will provide an update on our business and review Vector Group's performance for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Vector's financial performance includes the company's adoption of several new accounting standards in 2018 that are discussed in the company's press release issued this morning. Ron will then summarize Liggett's performance and provide an update on company and industry developments. After that, we will be available to answer your questions.

Vector Group maintains significant liquidity with cash and cash equivalents of approximately $282 million, which includes cash of $72 million at Douglas Elliman and $26 million at Liggett. We also had investment securities and investment partnership interests with a fair market value of approximately $290 million as of March 31, 2018.

Now, let's turn to Vector Group's key financials. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, Vector Group's revenues were $429 million compared to $415.2 million in the 2017 period. The company recorded adjusted operating income of $42.5 million compared to $54.6 million in the 2017 period.

Adjusted net income was $7.2 million or $0.04 per diluted share compared to $18.4 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the 2017 period. Adjusted EBITDA was $53 million compared to $61.8 million in the 2017 period. The decline in adjusted EBITDA was primarily related to Douglas Elliman's business because the New York real estate market has been challenging thus far in 2018.

For the three months ended March 31, 2018, Douglas Elliman reported approximately $159.4 million in revenues and an adjusted EBITDA loss of $8.6 million. This compared to revenues of $155.5 million and adjusted EBITDA of $1.8 million in the comparable 2017 period. The real estate market is cyclical and Vector's strong liquidity will provide us the ability to invest in opportunistic acquisitions that will provide long-term stockholder returns while enabling Douglas Elliman to weather any near-term challenges.

I will now turn the call over to Ron to discuss our Tobacco business. Ron.

Thank you, Howard. And good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report that Liggett continued its trend of volume and share growth during the first quarter of 2018. As previously noted, over the past two years, we identified changes taking place in the industry and we made a commitment to investing for growth. We could not be more pleased with the results achieved to date. With respect to product liability litigation, although Liggett has resolved all but approximately 80 Engle progeny cases and 25 non-Engle individual actions, as we always cautioned, we may still be subject to periodic adverse verdicts.

I'll now turn to the combined Tobacco financials for Liggett and Vector Tobacco. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, Liggett revenues were $267.1 million compared to $257.5 million for the corresponding period in 2017. Tobacco adjusted operating income for the three-month period was $59.9 million compared to $60.3 million for the corresponding period in 2017. This slight decrease is primarily the result of product mix changes reflecting the growth of Eagle 20's.

Our selling efforts continue to be focused on two core brands, Eagle 20's, now the third largest and still the fastest growing national discount brand and Pyramid, the fifth largest national discount brand. Our results confirm that Eagle 20's is providing an effective long-term complement to Pyramid while offsetting volume declines in Pyramid and other Liggett brands.

Eagle 20's growth is represented nationwide and the brand is now sold in over 65,000 stores. Though we have increased prices on Eagle 20's, the brand remains well-positioned for continued expansion and profit at a competitive price point. Likewise, despite anticipated volume declines, we're pleased with the performance of our Pyramid brand and continue to focus on supporting its well-established nationwide presence. Pyramid distribution remains strong and the brand is currently sold in approximately 110,000 stores.

Regarding recent industry shipment trends, following robust industry shipment performance in 2015; declines returned to historical norms over the past two years. And we anticipate that shipments will decline in the range of 4% in 2018. The industry remains challenging. And in recent years, to offset declines in their core premium brands, we've seen Altria and Reynolds increase their focus on discounted line extensions of those brands.

This has resulted in the development of a premium economy price segment, including brands such as Marlboro Special Blend, Newport Red and various Camel extensions. Prices of these premium economy brands are typically above standard discount products and has had little effect on the discount segment to date.

Regarding smaller discount-focused companies, the cumulative effect of price increases has generally slowed the growth of many brands, which has proven beneficial to us. However, over time, targeted deep discount brands continue to emerge in various geographies as smaller competitors search for growth opportunities. Additionally, while low-priced products such as mislabeled pipe tobacco and filtered cigars continue to adversely impact the marketplace, those categories have been in decline for the past few years.

According to Management Science Associates, Liggett's wholesale shipments in the first quarter increased by 3% on a year-over-year basis, while overall industry wholesale shipments decreased by 2.2%. As I note during each call, we believe retail shipments are a more reliable indicator of performance due to individual company shipment fluctuations, the timing of price increases and wholesaler buying patterns among other things. This was particularly notable for the first quarter of 2018.

For the first quarter, Liggett's year-over-year retail shipments increased by 0.25% compared to an overall industry decline of 6.9%. We were pleased to be the only nationally-focused major cigarette manufacturer to register an increase in retail shipments during the quarter. As a result, Liggett's first quarter retail market share increased by 28 basis points compared to the prior year period. And our share is now over 4% of the total market.

We're pleased with our performance. And as we look ahead, we plan to continue to focus on generating operating income from the strong sales and distribution base of Pyramid while delivering volume share and profit growth from Eagle 20's. We remain subject to regulatory and marketplace risks. We're confident that we have effective programs in place to support our market share and to grow profit.

Thanks for your attention. And back to you, Howard.

Thank you, Ron. As I noted at the start of the call, we continue to believe that Vector Group is well-positioned to generate long-term value for shareholders. We have strong cash reserves, have consistently increased our Tobacco profit margin and sales in volumes in recent years and will continue to benefit from favorable terms under the MSA and our real estate business.

We are also proud of the company's uninterrupted track record of paying a regular quarterly cash dividend since 1995 and an annual 5% stock dividend since 1999. The company once again reaffirms that its cash dividend policy remains the same.

Now, operator, would you please open the call for questions?

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, the floor is open for your questions. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Karru Martinson with Jefferies.

Good morning. Having listened to the calls for a while now, I think this is the first time I've heard you call out in sometime kind of the smaller regional brands as a competitive challenge or at least more noise from that side. Has there been a big shift on that front?

No, I have to correct you. I say that virtually every call. The smaller companies are always a factor in the industry. But what's happened is that and how the patterns typically go with them. You have a company that comes into the market or is in the market and they become very aggressive typically in a regional area, sometimes a very localized area. And that will create some competitive noise. But what happens over time is that they're typically not profitable at those levels. And because they have such a narrow focus, as soon as they start to raise their prices, somebody else comes in and attacks them. And we have a strategy where we maintain consistently competitive pricing in the marketplace. So we don't chase those deals. But we have a substantial enough base that we can withstand them. What's happened over the last two years is a number of those smaller companies, as they have had to raise their prices, have become less of a factor. And the point that I'm making is that even though that's the case, they ultimately get replaced by somebody else. And it's just an ongoing dynamic in the marketplace.

Okay. So when we look at the market share gain that you guys had and certainly given the noise that we've had from the majors, I think it's an impressive accomplishment. Where is that share coming from? Is it coming from these smaller regional brands or is it kind of folks trading from a premium cigarette to more of a discount product?

Yeah, it's coming across the board, I think. And clearly, we have gained some share from those who have raised their prices at the bottom end. But we've also seen the majors raise the price of their discount products. So for instance, you've seen Reynolds take fairly aggressive pricing with Pall Mall, which is the largest discount brand. You've also seen Altria take pretty significant pricing on L&M, which is the second largest. And Eagle is the third and Maverick, I believe, is the fourth and then Pyramid is the fifth. So we have been able to gain share by maintaining consistently competitive pricing and being very, very targeted in how we apply our spending on our promotional programs.

Okay. And with the talk that gasoline prices, at least optically on a year-over-year basis, are going up even though they're at long-term [indiscernible] (00:13:06). What's the thought process or the potential impact on cigarette sales for convenience stores? Do you feel that you'll see some trade-down into the discounts or will it broadly shift the category down?

Yeah, what tends to happen – gas station convenience stores, as I'm sure you know, tend to not have a lot of physical space in them. And as such, you tend to see more of a significant impact from the larger companies. We tend to dominate those spaces. And so as gas prices go up and it affects everybody. But as gas prices go up and you get to the point where you see people having less disposable income to spend, you'll see some volume declines. I would point out though that situation that occurred previously was much more pronounced because of the state of the economy at the time that gas prices got so high. We were dealing with the recovery from the 2008 recession. The economy is substantially stronger today. And I think that there's some effect, but I don't think it's nearly as substantial as it was back then.

Okay. And just lastly on the real estate side. Certainly, New York market has its challenges. How do you see kind of the monetization of some of the assets that you have for kind of harvesting?

Well, on the investment side, we are harvesting. There has been a press release put out as it relates to our sale of 20 Times Square, which turned out to be a pretty nice investment. So there is more harvesting. We really haven't done much on new investment now because we're sort of in this period where the prices haven't come down enough to make it look that attractive, although they're starting to. But pretty much we're working the assets we have to maximize whatever there is there value-wise. We've taken write-downs, I think, on a couple of investments. But I think, all in all, the rest of the portfolio looks pretty good. BK, do you have any comments on that?

This quarter was a very slow quarter for both investment and monetization. The only monetization we had this quarter was we received more distribution from the sale of condominiums at 215 Chrystie. And that was about $2.9 million during the quarter. We made add-on investments of about $750,000 during the quarter. And we received miscellaneous distributions from a couple of smaller investments, about $400,000 per quarter. And as far as - [indiscernible]

(00:15:56)

Yeah. As far as the 20 Times Square, I believe we received $27.3 million. The investment was around $19.5 million and we have all that money back to that project of about $3 million on a mortgage which will yield around 9% and 9.65%.

And I believe also there are other distributions, that there are additional distributions we will get, I think, in about six months.

That's absolutely correct, Howard, because that's the first installment and that was like 12% of total rate of return that was guaranteed in the purchase. And then there are additional profit incentive distributions to us.

Thank you very much, guys. Appreciate it.

Our next question comes from Mitch Pindus with Wells Fargo.

Good morning, gentlemen. And believe me, it's...

Hi, Mitch.

...really early here in the West Coast.

I'm right with you, Mitch.

Thank you. So you know how difficult it was poring through these numbers before my first cup of coffee this morning. Howard, can you just discuss a little bit about the New York segment, specifically Douglas Elliman? It looks like you had a nice bump in gross revenues and how that translated to the loss. Was that mostly related to advertising expenses? Where did that come from?

Well, first of all, the [indiscernible] (00:17:22) – do you want to go through the accounting adjustments, BK, on our loss?

As far as the bridge on Elliman. So -

Yeah, the revenue recognition, yeah, the big gap, yeah.

Yeah, right. So there was $2.2 million that was like the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. And then if you want to bridge the rest from last year to this year – we actually did not include this in our loss, but we had a $2.5 million gain from a settlement on Westchester. So if you subtracted that from the EBITDA, it would have been a $6.1 million loss. As far as the rest of the quarter, it can basically be explained by investments in the California market through the [ph] TELUS (00:18:11) acquisition which is performing nicely, but there's still upfront cost. And New York company dollar was down because sales were down in New York.

Yeah, the company dollar was down, I think, about $4 million.

That's about right. And the important thing to note on that, Mitch, is that we pay a lower commission rate in New York City because sales are obviously higher than we do the rest of the country.

And New York City has traditionally been the best market to make money in. And that's why we've always performed so well. The average commission payout is less than the markets like South Florida or in LA that we're also in. But we also were in those markets for our new development business. A new development provides a higher margin to the company. So it's sort of a different business model and it provides higher margins. And by this year, we'll have a bunch of closings in New York starting in a few months. So we [indiscernible] (00:19:20) the market is still about the same it was in the first quarter right now. In April, we see the same, but we expect that the weather is better. I hear from brokers that's the barometer. They call, hey, guess what, things are happening, people are calling, we're negotiating deals. So I think that you feel – everyone feels that it's starting to pick up now.

In your last call, Howard, you mentioned that you thought that home prices in Manhattan had actually dropped by about 15%, but the sellers didn't know it yet. Is that still a fair statement?

Yeah, that's a fair statement. And I guess the only thing different now is they're finally starting to realize that their pricing is too high and that in order to have sales, they have to drop their pricing. And that's basically, I believe, what's happening now, that the market for a while has been down probably 15% plus or minus a little bit. But the sellers didn't want to realize it. So we're going into that transition now where if they want to sell, they realize that they have to reduce prices or accept lower offers. And that's what's happening at this time.

Okay, thank you.

Those are all the questions that we have for today. Thank you for joining us on Vector Group's earnings conference call. That will conclude our call. Thank you all for your participation and you may now disconnect.