raw transcript


Vector Group Ltd.
 
VGR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to Vector Group’s First Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Before the call


begins, I would like to read a Safe Harbor statement. The statements made during this conference


call, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth or implied by


forward-looking statements. These risks are described in more detail in the company’s Securities


and Exchange Commission filings.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to President and Chief Operating Officer of Vector Group;


Howard Lorber. Sir, the floor is yours.


Howard Lorber, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Thank you. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on Vector’s first quarter 2005


earnings conference call.


With me today is; Bennett LeBow, Chairman and CEO of Vector Group, Ron Bernstein, the


President and CEO of Liggett-Vector brands and Liggett.


On today’s call, I will provide an overview of our business and Vector Group’s performance for the


first quarter. Ron will then review the performance of Liggett Group and Vector Tobacco for the


quarter and provide an update on the transition to the new business model for Liggett-Vector


brands that we discussed during our fourth quarter call. After that, we will take your questions.


Industry conditions while still challenging, continued to show signs of stabilizing during the first


quarter. The pricing actions that were taken during the fourth quarter appeared to be holding and


we continue to see more states, currently 42, passing the Allocable Share Legislation. With a few


notable exceptions, this along with the tobacco quarter buy out payment requirements, has led to


increased pricing from the smaller manufacturers and importers. The price gap between premium


and discount cigarettes, continues to be in the range that appears comfortable for the big three


companies. As previously noted, the net effect of all of this seems to be some signs of stability at


retail.


As I referenced in the previous call, we are continuing to see aggressive retail trade program from


the two market leaders, at least one of which appears – to us to be anti-competitive in nature. We


continue to monitor these programs closely. If they do prove to be anti-competitive, we intend to


seek appropriate remedies.


Industry wide total domestic retail shipments for the 12-months ending March 31, 2005 declined by


1.6% over the prior 12-month period, while first quarter 2005 retail shipments decreased by


approximately 2.7 percent, compared to the same quarter last year.


We believe industry declines continued to run in a historical range for the industry and that


shipments to retail are generally more indicative of market performance than wholesale shipments,


which are often affected by manufacturer pricing actions and wholesaler buying programs.


Liggett’s first quarter operating income was consistent with our expectations, following our fourth


quarter 2004 restructuring and Ron will provide you with a full update shortly. With respect to


QUEST, we continued to work on the development of a flue-cured tobacco without nicotine and


anticipate another test crop to be grown later this year. If successful, we would be in a position to


grow commercial quantities during 2006.
raw transcript


Vector Group Ltd.
 
VGR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are pleased with the directional improvements and taste characteristics’ obtained from our first


test crop of low nicotine flue-cured tobacco and believe the new variety works well with our no-


nicotine flue-cured tobacco. However, we still have more work to do and will provide further update


later in the year.


In addition, we continued to work with the FDA and are in the process of doing the required


research and regulatory filings necessary, to eventually market QUEST that is smoking cessation


product. We are optimistic about this process and continue to believe that FDA approval of a


smoking cessation regimen is a key element to our long-term strategy and we continue to work


toward that goal.


Now, I will review the key financials for the three months ended March 31st, 2005 for Vector Group


and Ron will review the key financials for our conventional cigarette business and our Vector


Tobacco new technology cigarette subsidiary. Our conventional cigarette business includes sales


to both Liggett Group cigarettes and our USA Brand cigarettes from the Medallion acquisition.


In addition, for comparative purposes, we have excluded the discontinued operations of New


Valley’s Princeton New Jersey office buildings, which were sold for 71.5 million in February ‘05 as


well as New Valley’s income from discontinued operations, which resulted from adjustments to tax


accruals established in connection with New Valley sale of Western Union in 1994 and 1995.


For the first quarter ended March 31st, 2005 Vector Group revenues were 104.2 million, compared


to a 126.6 million in the 2004 first quarter. The company recorded operating profit of 18.6 million,


compared to 12.8 million in the 2004 first quarter. Our quarterly results in 2004 included pre-tax


restructuring charges of 653,000.


Net income from continuing operations was 8.3 million or 19 cents per diluted share in the 2005 first


quarter, compared to net income of 4.5 million or 10% per diluted share in the 2004 period.


Now, I will turn the call over to Ron Bernstein; the President and Chief Executive Officer of Liggett


Vector Brands and Liggett, who will update you on the performance of the operating companies.


Ronald Bernstein, President, Chief Executive Officer of Liggett and Director


Thanks Howard and good morning to everyone. For the three months ended March 31st 2005, our


conventional cigarettes generated revenues of $101.6 million, compared to 122.2 million for the


corresponding 2004 period. Operating income for the three months ended March 31st, 2005 was


31.9 million, compared to 27.8 million for the 2004 period.


The quarterly results in 2004 included pre-tax restructuring charges of $389,000. For the three


months ended March 31st, 2005 Vector Tobacco’s operating losses were 4.4 million, compared to


operating losses of 8.7 million for the prior year period. The quarterly results in 2004 included pre-


tax restructuring charges of $264,000.


Let me now turn to Liggett’s first quarter performance in the marketplace and the early impact of


our new business model. As a reminder, on October 6th, Vector Group announced the


restructuring of Liggett Vector Brands, our sales, marketing and distribution subsidiary. This cost


saving restructuring involves adjustments to LVB’s business model and a significant realignment of


its sales force. This resulted in the elimination of approximately 330 full time physicians and 135


part time physicians that became effective December 15th, 2004.


As you would recognize, this type of change was challenging across our company, impacting both


departing personnel, as well as those being retained. In general, the restructuring process has


been executed well and we have accomplished our initial objectives in a timely manner. However,