raw transcript


Vector Group Ltd
 
VGR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Vector Group third quarter 2005 earnings conference call. Before the call


begins I could like to read the Safe Harbor statements. The statements made during this


conference call which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to


risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth, or


implied by forward-looking statements. These risks are described in more detail in the company's


Securities and Exchange Commission's filings. Now I would like to turn the call over to the


President and Chief Operating Officer of Vector Group, Howard Lorber. Sir you may begin.


Howard Lorber, President & COO


Good morning, and thank you for joining us on Vector's third quarter 2005 earnings conference call.


With me today is Ron Bernstein, the President and CEO of Liggett Vector Brands and Liggett. On


today's call, I will provide an overview of our business and review Vector Group's performance for


the third quarter. Ron will then discuss the performance of Liggett Group and Vector Tobacco for


the quarter, and review the progress and results we are seeing last year's restructuring. After that


we take your questions.


But before we discuss our performance, I wanted to say a few words about another development at


Vector Group. As you're surely aware Vector has made a premium offer of $9 per share in Vector


Group's stock for all of the outstanding shares of New Valley that Vector does not already own. On


October 20, Vector announced that we have commenced this exchange offer under which we're


offering New Valley shareholders 0.416 shares Vector common stock for each outstanding share of


New Valley they own.


The exchange offer is designed to be tax-free. While we were disappointed by the New Valley's


special committee's decision recommending against our offer, we're eager for New Valley


shareholders to make their own determination on the merits of our offer. But let me emphasize that


due a 90% tender requirement it's highly unlikely that Vector will be able to close this transaction


unless all significant New Valley shareholders enter into the offer. To be clear, if the 90% tender


requirement is not satisfied there can be no second step short of a merger and thus no appraisal


rights. Because of the current nature of this exchange offer, there's not much more we can say


about this matter at this time.


Now onto our results. Let me say that I'm pleased to report that Vector Group had another strong


quarter operationally, which follows the positive second quarter that we discussed on the last call.


Importantly, we again translated this strong performance into an improved bottom line. In a


somewhat more stable industry environment we continued to generate revenue growth and to


benefit from our reduced cost base. As a result, we were able to increase operating income at our


conventional tobacco business by 17% on an apples-to-apples basis. We remain confident that the


restructuring steps we undertook last year were the right strategic actions for our business and


we're continuing to see the positive impacts of those efforts. As noted, industry conditions have


been somewhat more stable, but still remain challenging during the third quarter. Recent pricing


actions by Philip Morris and Reynolds American in the form of reduced consumer buy downs have


held and there appears to be continued confidence in premium pricing power among the big three


companies.


A major factor in that confidence is that 44 of the 46 MSA states have now passed Allocable Share


Legislation closing a major MSA loophole that the non-participating companies have exploited over


the past five years. Currently, Missouri and New Jersey are the only participating states that have


not enacted Allocable Share Legislation although it is anticipated that these states may pass


legislation next year. The Allocable Share Legislation along with the tobacco quota buyout that
raw transcript


Vector Group Ltd
 
VGR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


went into effect earlier this year is continuing to level the discount playing field by driving price


increases for many of the smaller manufacturers and importers. These small manufacturer price


increases have reduced price gaps between premium and discount cigarettes to a point where we


believe the big three are relatively comfortable with price differentials. The net effect seems to be


reflecting growing stability of retail. At the same time the two market leaders are continuing to


aggressively promote their retail trade programs and we continue to be concerned about potential


anti-competitive elements for these programs.


As we get closer to the end of the year, we expect a big two will introduce new programs for '06 and


we intend to review and monitor these programs as they develop. If they prove to be anti-


competitive as always, we'll consider appropriate remedies available to us. Industry wide total


domestic wholesale shipments for the 12 months ending September 30, 2005 declined by 1.9%


over the prior 12-month period and third quarter 2005 wholesale shipments also fell by


approximately 1.9% compared to the same quarter last year. It appears that shipment declines


continue to run in the historical range for the industry, and we expect that trend to continue. In the


still changing environment, we again were pleased with the financial results of our conventional


cigarette business during the third quarter. We continue to strengthen in the quarter and have


gained positive traction from the steps we've taken to improve performance after facing some


restructuring related transaction issues early in '05. Ron, will provide a more detailed update


shortly.


With respect to Quest, we continue to work on the development of a flue-cured tobacco without


nicotine although as previously reported we don't anticipate growing another flue-cured test crop


until spring of next year. Therefore the earliest, we would be in the position to grow commercial


quantities will likely be in spring of 2007. We are pleased with the improvements in taste


characteristics obtained from the first test crop of low nicotine flue-cured tobacco and believe the


new variety works well with our no nicotine Barley tobacco. However, as I previously noted we still


have more work to do and we'll provided further updates as we proceed. In addition, we continue to


work with the FDA and are in the process of doing the required research and regulatory


coordination necessary to eventually market Quest as a smoking cessation product. We remain


optimistic about this process and believe that we will complete the FDA approved phase II clinical


trial early next year. We expect to be in a position to provide a more comprehensive update on our


findings and expectations during the first quarter of '06.


Now I'll review the key financials for the three and nine months ending September 30, 2005 for


Vector Group, and Ron will then review the key financials on our conventional cigarette business


and our Vector tobacco new technology cigarettes subsidiary. Our conventional cigarette business


includes sales for both the original Liggett Group cigarette and our USA brand cigarettes from the


Medallion acquisition. In addition, for comparative purposes we've excluded the discontinued


operations of New Valley Princeton New Jersey office buildings which was sold in for 71.5 million in


February 2005.


For the third quarter ending September 30, 2005. Vector Group revenues we're $125 million,


compared to $124.3 million in the 2004 third quarter. The company recorded operating income of


$20 million, compared to operating income of $16.7 million in the 2004 third quarter. Our quarterly


results in 2005 include a special one-time assessment of approximately $5.2 million from United


States Department of Agriculture for losses associated with the sale of stabilization tobacco


inventories related to the Tobacco quota buyout program. The 2004 quarterly results improved 4.5


million of restructuring charges. Adjusting for the special assessment and the restructuring charges


the company's operating income for the 2005 third quarter was $25.2 million as compared to $21.2


million for the 2004 period, an increase of 18.8%. Net income from continuing operations was $9


million or $0.19 per diluted share in the 2005 third quarter compared to net income of $8 million, or


$0.17 per diluted share in the 2004 period.