corrected transcript


Vector Group Ltd.
 
VGR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to Vector Group’s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. Before the call


begins, I would like to read a Safe Harbor statement. The statements made during this conference


call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth and or implied


by forward-looking statements. These risks are described in more detail on the company’s


Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Vector Group,


Howard Lorber. You may begin sir.


Howard M. Lorber, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, and thank you for joining us on Vector Group’s first quarter 2011 earnings


conference call. With me today is Ron Bernstein, the President and CEO of Liggett Vector Brands


and Liggett; and Bryant Kirkland, Vector Group’s Chief Financial Officer.


On today’s call, I will provide an update on our business and review Vector Group’s financials for


the first quarter of 2011. Ron will then discuss Liggett’s performance for the period and provided his


insight on industry developments, and the competitive environment. After that we will answer your


questions.


Let me start by saying that our objectives entering 2011 were to continue to build on the market


leading volume growth we have generated with our Pyramid brand for the last two years, while also


delivering profit growth for the company. I’m very pleased to report that we have met both of those


goals for the first quarter and we will discuss that further when we detail our Tobacco business


performance later in the call.


With respect to real estate in the first quarter of 2011, we continue to see positive signs and a


challenging market environment at New Valley and Douglas Elliman. We believe there are good


investment opportunities in this market and we plan to make appropriate investments when the


opportunities meet our criteria.


Before turning to the financials, I want to briefly address the tobacco litigation environment and


specifically developments with respect to the angle cases in Florida. As noted in our prior calls, the


Engle progeny cases are now the primary focus of our litigation activity. There are approximately


6,700 cases pending in both Federal Court and Florida State Court. We along with the other


industry defendant continue to believe that the Engle process is materially flawed and


unconstitutional. While we believe we have strong arguments as evidenced by several recent


defense verdicts in this eight cases and a potentially favorable rooming in Federal Court referenced


on previous calls, there is still considerable risk and we remain subject to the ongoing process and


periodic negative judgments.


Turning now to Vector’s balance sheet, our liquidity remains strong with cash and cash equivalents


of approximately $276 million as of March 31, 2011. Additionally, as of March 31, 2011, the


company held investment securities and partnership interests with a fair market value of


approximately $146 million.


Now, let’s turn to the key financials for the three months ended March 31, 2011 for Vector Group.


Vector Group revenues were $260.4 million, compared to $222.1 million in the 2010 first quarter.


The company recorded operating income of $31.5 million in the 2011 first quarter, compared to


operating income of $31 million in the 2010 first quarter. First quarter 2011 net income was $19.4
corrected transcript


Vector Group Ltd.
 
VGR
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


million, or $0.25 per diluted share, compared to a $11.9 million, or $0.14 per diluted share in the


2010 period.


I will now turn the call over to Ron Bernstein for a review of the performance of our Tobacco


business. Ron?


Ronald J. Bernstein, President and Chief Executive Officer of Liggett Group Inc. And Liggett


Vector Brands Inc.


Thanks, Howard. Good morning, everybody. As Howard mentioned, we’re very pleased with the


performance and continued growth of our tobacco operations in the first quarter of 2011. We’re


particularly pleased that we were able to increase retail shipments in the quarter by almost 13%


versus a very challenging prior year shipment comparison when our retail shipments grew by 19%.


Over the past 24 months we have successfully executed on our growth strategy, substantially


increasing both product shipments and market share. And we continue to feel positive about the


course we are on. I will elaborate more on our performance in a moment, but first let me turn to the


financials.


Please note that financial reporting for Vector Tobacco was combined with Liggett.


For the three months ended March 31st, 2011, Liggett revenues were $260.4 million, compared to


$222.1 million for the corresponding period in 2010. Operating income for the three months ended


March 31st, 2011, was $36.4 million, compared to $34.9 million in 2010.


Turning back to market performance, despite challenging market conditions, our trend of market


share growth continued in the first quarter of 2011. According to Management Science Associates,


for the quarter-ending March 31, 2011, Liggett’s wholesale market share was 3.65%, an increase of


more than half of a share point over the first quarter of 2010. At the same time, Liggett’s retail share


increased to almost 4%, compared to approximately 3.4% in the prior-year period.


Overall, first quarter retail shipments for the industry declined by 3.1%, while Liggett’s retail


shipments increased by almost 13%. All major competitors suffered declines in retail shipments for


the quarter, except for Lorillard, which data indicates had an increase of approximately 8%.


First quarter industry wholesale shipments declined by 3.4%, compared to the prior-year period.


Liggett, however, continued to outperform the market during the first quarter with wholesale


shipments growing by almost 15% over the prior-year period.


The primary driver for Liggett’s volume growth at both retail and wholesale continues to be the


strong performance of Pyramid, which was redesigned, repackaged, and reintroduced to the


market in April 2009.


According to Management Science Associates in the first quarter of 2011, Pyramid was the


seventh-largest brand in the United States in terms of both retail, and wholesale shipments. And we


continued to see strong acceptance of the brand at both the retail and the consumer level.


The strategy that we put in place in early 2009 and continue to execute has enabled us to


significantly increase the distribution footprint of Pyramid.


Throughout the past two years, we have been focused on building Pyramid as a national brand,


rather than a brand with geographic strength. To achieve that goal we defined benchmarks


throughout the United States to measure our effectiveness over time.