Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Michael Kandell — Chief Financial Officer, Wireless Telecom Group, Inc.
Timothy Whelan — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Wireless Telecom Group, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Wireless Telecom Group Q1, Earnings Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and we will open the floor for your questions and comments after the presentation.

It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Mike Kandell, CFO. Sir the floor is yours.

Thank, you Kate. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2018 earnings call.

Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone on the call that our remarks today could include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. The company's forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions regarding the company's business and performance, the economy and other future conditions and forecasts of future events, circumstances and results.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could materially affect actual results. Important factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those in its forward-looking statements include those risk factors set forth in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC.

The company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking information to reflect changes in assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or otherwise. Also we want to point out that in addition to GAAP information, we will provide information relating to certain non-GAAP measures. We believe that presenting these non-GAAP or adjusted measures provides additional meaningful information to investors which reflect how management views the business. Detailed reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures are set forth in a reconciliation table in our press release issued earlier this morning and furnished with the Form 8-K filed this morning with the SEC.

I will now turn the call over to Tim Whelan, our Chief Executive Officer.

Thank you, Mike. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us. Our agenda will include some prepared remarks followed by Mike's review of the financials and then we will open the line for some Q&A. First, we are very pleased with our Q1 revenues of $13.2 million, which reflects both sequential and year-over-year consolidated revenue increases as well as strong contributions from each of our three segments.

Our results continue to reflect successful traction in our top line growth strategy to invest in our existing businesses to drive organic growth and add complementary and synergistic businesses through acquisition. Just as importantly, we are very happy the higher revenues delivered improved gross profit, improved operating income and improved net income. On a non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA basis, we delivered $1.6 million of non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, which is the highest adjusted EBITDA quarter in over three years.

As we look beyond revenue in the quarter, our Q1 2018 bookings were approximately $14 million and resulted in a positive 1 to 1.05 book-to-bill ratio, reflecting continued strength in customer order flow. We are exiting the first quarter with a backlog of orders of $10.6 million, which represents an increase in backlog of approximately $700,000 from December 31, 2017.

Across our segments, we've also continue to make progress. Our Network Solutions segment continues to evolve its products platform to address new spectrum requirements, multi-carrier deployments, small cell build-outs and carrier densification investments. All initiatives connected with 5G readiness and deployment.

We are also seeing an environment of increased price sensitivity in the segment and our lean manufacturing initiatives are allowing us to be responsive to our customer needs for improving their total cost of ownership while also producing efficiencies which help support competitive pricing at levels which do not sacrifice quality and peak performance in the networks. We work with our customers to add our expertise in RF conditioning and a value to the design stage, which offers optimal delivery at an attractive and decreasing cost profile. We believe the cost for field services and repair and replace work for underperforming network equipment by our customers is far more costly than the price of high-performance solutions and premium quality.

In our Test & Measurement segment, we continue to expand our product portfolio with next-generation power sensors and noise generation devices for military and commercial communications applications. A recent launch of our next-generation peak power measurement product, the 4500C is focused on the challenging demands of high-speed, high-throughput manufacturing tests of next-generation wireless devices. And I am proud to announce today we are actively selling this new product into the market, which replaces our older 4500B product. New technology product developments are also underway to address emerging test requirements in millimeter-wave and 5G designs.

And in our Embedded Solutions segment, we have realized increased demand for our network cards, which help enable the testing of base stations and test systems for replicating complex network performance of multiple users, multiple cells and different access technologies. This network testing is aligned to continued 4G-base build and 5G early deployment. We are also quite proud of the CommAgility team performance in LTE software and software customization projects for private network applications and digital signal processing embedded technology, including our announced selection by Lockheed Martin for an innovative satellite communications project.

Overall, as we grow in scale and size on the top-line, we expect our profitability profile to improve with greater operational leverage, which we expect will also drive improved non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA margins and higher operating cash flow generation.

In summary, we have accomplished a number of important objectives in Q1 and our financial results reflect the improvements and changes we have made to the business over the last year. We are continuing to execute on our strategy, strengthening our three segments to address the demands and growth of wireless connectivity. Our segments are benefiting from investment in carrier densification, increased military spending, private network deployment, 5G investment and industrial IoT.

Our strategic focus on wireless connectivity growth will also continue to guide our actions and decisions for both organic and M&A growth opportunity to position our product solution set towards long-term growth trends and larger market opportunities aligned to our core expertise in developing, testing, and deploying highly customized, high-performance wireless communication solutions.

With that, I'm going to turn the call back over to Mike to walk us through the financials.

Thank you, Tim. Good morning again everyone. So, as you see in the press release and 10-Q we filed this morning, we delivered Q1 results, which were in line with our revenue expectations and slightly ahead of our margin expectations. Consolidated revenues of $13.2 million represented growth of $3.7 million or 39% from the year-ago period and included approximately $4 million of revenue from Embedded Solutions in Q1 of 2018 versus approximately $1 million in Q1 of 2017. The $3 million increase in Embedded Solutions revenue reflects a full quarter of ownership in Q1 2018 versus an ownership period of approximately 43 days in Q1 2017. The remaining increase in Q1 2018 revenue reflects growth contributions in our Test & Measurement segment.

Our consolidated gross profit increased $1.9 million from $4.3 million in Q1 2017 to $6.3 million in Q1 2018. Consolidated gross margin increased from 45.4% in Q1 2017 to 47.3% in Q1 2018, due primarily to a favorable product mix in our Test & Measurement segment and higher revenue volumes in Embedded Solutions.

On a segment level for the quarter ending March 31, 2018, Network Solutions revenues and margins were in line and consistent with the same quarter last year. Test & Measurement revenue increased 24% or $700,000, driven by higher backlog exiting 2017 and higher U.S. government sales. Test & Measurement gross margins improved from approximately 44% to 49%, due to favorable product mix.

And in Embedded Solutions, as I mentioned previously, we realized almost $3 million of higher revenue in Q1 2018 compared to Q1 2017, which reflects both the full quarter of ownership of CommAgility, as well as higher demand for our hardware cards used in network test solutions. Our Embedded Solutions gross margins decreased in Q1 2018 to approximately 50% of revenue from 54% in Q1 2017 because of the higher hardware revenue mix in 2018.

On a regional basis, the Americas, which we define as Canada, the U.S. and South America continues to account for the majority of our revenue. For the quarter ending March 31, 2018, the Americas, EMEA and APAC revenues accounted for approximately 61%, 28% and 11% of our consolidated revenues respectively. In the same quarter last year, the Americas, EMEA and APAC accounted for 73%, 16% and 11% of our consolidated revenues. The increase in EMEA revenue reflects the higher Embedded Solutions hardware sales to a customer in the UK. Across all of our regions, we see our businesses and channels performing well, and we are focused on continuing to drive more growth from regions outside of North America.

As Tim noted, our bookings continue to be strong in Q1 at approximately $14 million, and we had another positive book-to-bill ratio in the quarter. While we don't expect this to happen every quarter this year, we are encouraged with the strong start to 2018 and we are working for a positive ratio at the end of each fiscal year on a cumulative basis.

The Q1 bookings contributes to an ending backlog at March 31, 2018 of $10.6 million or nearly $700,000 higher than backlog at December 31, 2017. The higher backlog gives us a good start to our second quarter, and sets us up nicely for a revenue expectation of approximately $25 million for the first half of 2018. As a reminder our backlog is typically delivered within the following 12 months with the majority of that delivery over the following one to two quarters.

Our consolidated operating expenses were $5.7 million in Q1 2018 compared to $6 million in the same period a year ago. Some highlights on the operating expenses. R&D expenses. R&D expenses were comparable Q1 2018 to Q1 2017 with R&D increases in Embedded Solutions, which reflect the full quarter of ownership in 2018 offset by some decreases in Network Solutions.

Sales and marketing expense increased Q1 2018 as compared to Q1 2017 due to a full quarter of ownership of CommAgility, as well as from increased sales head count in the U.S. And G&A expenses decreased Q1 2018 as compared to Q1 2017, because of lower M&A and integration expenses related to the CommAgility acquisition. Netting it all out, we have realized operating income before taxes of $430,000 and net income of $374,000 for the quarter.

And taking a look at our non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, we delivered $1.6 million in Q1 2018, compared to a non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA of $447,000 in the same period a year ago. This improvement to non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2018 was largely driven by revenue growth, improved gross margins and a careful control of operating expenses balanced against investments for future growth.

As mentioned in our last earnings call, approximately 2.1 million shares of our common stock that were issued in connection with the CommAgility acquisition were forfeited in Q1, 2018. This forfeiture is now reflected in our financial statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018. With regard to cash flow and liquidity, our net income and non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA was offset by increases in working capital during the quarter. We remain optimistic about our ability to generate cash flow from operations during 2018.

At this time, I'd like to turn it back over to Tim for some closing remarks.

Thank you, Mike. So overall, we're pleased with the strong start in 2018 and our Q1 results. Looking into the second quarter of 2018, ending June 30, we expect Q2 revenues in the range of $12.25 million to $12.75 million, we expect gross margins of approximately 45% to 46% and we expect non-GAAP operating expenses to be between $5.4 million and $5.6 million.

In summary, Wireless Telecom Group has a deep level of expertise in RF-wireless communication. We have known and well-recognized brand names with long-tenured history, and we have a large installed base of products and customers. We are an approved and trusted vendor with carriers, the military and government agencies. Together, Wireless Telecom Group and our three segments represents an investment in the continued growth and evolution of wireless communication and a company collectively centered and focused on a unified mission across three lifecycle areas enabling the development, testing and deployment of wireless communications technology.

We expect to take advantage of the anticipated long-term growth trends in wireless communication, while at the same time, we are also diversified across solution sets, diversified across the stages of wireless technology lifecycle and diversified across customer segment addressability.

Thank you. And Kate, if you could please open the lines for questions now.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the floor is now opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question today is coming from [ph] Fernando Canto (00:15:50). Please announce your affiliation, then pose your question.

Good morning, Tim and Mike. Congratulations on a good quarter.

Good morning.

At percentage of capacity are you running now? Hello?

Yeah.

Yeah.

In terms of percentage of capacity as I think about manufacturing operations, I think we clearly have room to grow and the lean manufacturing initiative would allow us approximately 10% to 20% improvement prior to adding meaningful additional cost structure. As I think about the sales go-to-market strategy, we're going to continue to look for opportunity to increase coverage with our customers as we see frontend design, partnerships resulting in good results in terms of win rates. So I think of it a little bit differently as sales go-to-market versus the operations and manufacturing.

Okay. Is there any reason as to why the guidance is lower than the total revenue for the first quarter?

Well, we are project-based business. And so, the timing and delivery of certain projects happens on a basis that can be lumpy at times. And so while there is a portion of the business that is, call it, a run rate business, there's another portion which is project based and has a more significant and careful revenue recognition whereby the revenue recognition is only upon the completion and acceptance of the project by the customer.

Okay. All right. Well, thank you very much and again congratulations on a very good quarter.

Thank you.

Thanks [ph] Fernando (00:17:29). [Operator Instructions]

We have no further questions in queue at this time. Do you have any closing comments you'd like to finish with?

Thank you, Kate. Thank you everyone for joining our call today and we look forward to speaking with you all again in the future.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This does conclude today's conference call. You may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day. Thank you for your participation.